20051249|Root competition inhibits root proliferation. All else equal, a plant should invest roots in a nutrient patch devoid of roots rather than one already occupied by roots. Less clear is how a plant should respond to intra-plant versus inter-plant root competition. We consider three responses for how a plant may select habitats based on intra-versus inter-plant root competition: inter-plant avoidance, resource matching, or intra-plant avoidance. The first assumes that plants prefer to have their own space and preferentially proliferate roots away from neighboring plants. The second response, based on the ideal free distribution, assumes that plants invest so as to equalize average returns from roots, regardless of the identity of the neighboring roots. The third, based on game theory, assumes that the plant proliferates roots so as to maximize whole-plant fitness, in which case it is better to proliferate plants among a neighbor's roots than to continue proliferating amongst one's own roots. To test among these models we grew beans (Phaseolus varigaris, var, Kenya) in a greenhouse under two planting scenarios. Both scenario were tested under 0.5 and 0.1 strength of nutrient solution. Under scenario A (fence-sitters), two split-root plants each shared two patches by virtue of having roots in each. Under scenario B (owners) two plants each had their own patch. The results supported the game theory model of intra-plant avoidance (whole plant habitat selection). Fence-sitters produced 150% more root mass per individual than owners. Owners produced 90% more yield (dry mass of pods) than fence-sitters. Furthermore, owners had significantly higher shoot-root ratios than fence-sitters. These effects did not vary with high or low nutrient levels. The over-proliferation of roots under inter-plant competition (fence-sitters) was manifest by the tenth day after planting. In short, the fence-sitters engaged in a tragedy of the commons in which they competed with each other through root proliferation. At the ESS, the fitness maximizing strategy of the individual is to sacrifice collective yield in a quest to 'steal' nutrients from its neighbor. The research has three implications. First, plants may be able to assess and respond to local opportunities in a manner that maximizes the good of the whole plant. Second, nutrient foraging as a game may provide a fresh perceptive for viewing root competition either intra-specifically or inter-specifically. Third, it may be possible to increase the yield of certain crop species by breeding more 'docile' cultivars that do not overproduce roots in response to inter-plant competition.
40666621|Litter production, litter standing crop, and potential nutrient return via litterfall to soil were studied during a 4-year period (January 2004-December 2007) in a Chinese fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata (Lamb.) Hook) plantation and a secondary broadleaved forest in Hunan Province in subtropical China. Mean annual litterfall in the sampling sites varied from 358 g m in the pure plantation to 669 g m in the secondary broadleaved forest. Total litterfall followed a bimodal distribution pattern for both forests. Amount of litterfall was also related to the air temperature in both forests. During the period under this study, annual variation in the total litterfall in the pure plantation was significantly higher than that in the secondary broadleaved forest. Litterfall was markedly seasonal in the both forests. Leaf proportions of litterfall in the pure plantation and secondary broadleaved forest were 58.1 and 61.7%, respectively. Total potential nutrient returns to the soil through litterfall in the pure plantation were only 46.2% of those in the secondary broadleaved forest. Total litter standing crop was 913 and 807 g m in the pure plantation and secondary broadleaved forest, respectively. Our results confirm that conversion from a secondary broadleaved forest into a pure coniferous plantation changes the functioning of the litter system.
20051332|Studies undertaken in the Atlantic Coastal Forest have revealed a notable floristic heterogeneity within this vegetation type in NE Brazil. However, there is still a great need for detailed comparisons of the floristic relationships between the various forest types found there. This work presents an analysis of the floristic similarity (at the species level) of these forest as revealed by floristic surveys, with the aim of better understanding and defining this vegetation. Using a binary matrix, grouping, ordering, and TWINSPAN analysis were performed on 742 tree/shrub species listed in 35 different plant surveys. These tree/shrub species were divided by these analysis into two large floristic groups -- ombrophilous and semideciduous. The semideciduous group was formed, in general, by forest areas located at altitudes above 700 m (montane forests), and could itself be divided into two subgroups. The first subgroup was located more inland (Pernambuco), while the second subgroup was located nearer the coast (within the states of Pernambuco and Cear). The ombrophilous group was quite heterogeneous, but could also be divided into two floristic subgroups: i) lowland forests (below 100 m a.s.l) in the states of Pernambuco, Paraba, and in two areas of Bahia, as well as some montane forests (in Pernambuco, between 640 and 900 m a.s.l.); ii) lowlands forests in the states of Alagoas and Bahia. This latter subgroup is the largest and best defined, and has the highest degree of internal similarity. Nonetheless, it can be further subdivided into two smaller classes, one in Alagoas and the other in Bahia State. The results of this study demonstrate that the concept of the Atlantic Coastal Forest could also include montane ombrophilous forests in Pernambuco State, as these forests form a single floristic unit together with lowland forests in that state.
23500419|Compensation, the degree of plant recovery after herbivory, is influenced by nutrient availability. The compensatory continuum hypothesis (CCH) predicts that the more abundant the resources in an environment, the greater the potential for compensation. Nutrient-rich patches generated by leaf-cutting ants near their nests could modify plants' responses to damage. We performed a greenhouse and a field experiment to evaluate the effects of refuse dumps (RDs) created by Acromyrmex lobicornis on plant compensation for foliar herbivory in roadside areas of the Patagonian steppe. We expected higher tolerance in plants growing in RDs than in adjacent non-nest soils (NNSs). We also assessed whether compensation differed between native and exotic species common in the area. We expected higher compensation in exotic than native plants since they perform better in RDs. Native and exotic plants fully compensated for simulated herbivory resembling natural levels. In the greenhouse, clipped plants achieved similar biomass as control plants and in the field reproductive output was similar between treatments. However, compensation was not higher in RDs than NNSs or in exotic than native plants as expected. Both native and exotic plants in roadside areas may have traits associated with disturbance which allow them to tolerate natural occurring herbivory without compromising their performance. Our study, the first one to test the CCH on RDs, shows that enhanced levels of resources do not always determine higher tolerance to herbivory.
41412381|Plants often interact with antagonists such as herbivores or pathogens. Negative effects on individual plant performance are widely documented, but less is known about whether such effects translate into effects on population viability. In temperate forests, important herbivores include deer. During 2006-2009, I compared vital rates and population growth rates (calculated using integral projection models) between fenced exclosures and grazed control areas, using the perennial herb Phyteuma spicatum as a model species. Deer caused the largest damage to flowering individuals, removing about 24% of all inflorescences and 13% of the above-ground biomass. Only few vital rates seemed to be negatively affected by deer (mainly seed production) and this did not translate into effects on population growth rate. Contrary to expectations, population growth rates tended to be lower in the fenced exclosures in 1 year. This was likely caused by high-pathogen infestation rates, which negatively affected the probability of adult survival and growth. Population growth rate was more sensitive to changes in these vital rates than to changes in seed production. In summary, the results of this demographic study show that grazing effects may be small for long-lived herbs, and that negative effects on vital rates such as seed production may not always translate into effects on population growth rate. The findings also illustrate that other antagonists such as pathogens may be of greater relative importance for differences in population performance than herbivores. on vital rates such as seed production may not always translate into effects on population growth rate. The findings also illustrate that other antagonists such as pathogens may be of greater relative importance for differences in population performance than herbivores.
20051186|We examined and compared two approaches to vegetation boundary determination by applying them to field data collected from Betsch Fen, an alkaline wetland in Ohio, USA. Two boundary detection methods were used to test hypothesized boundary locations determined through field observations: gradient analysis by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and the moving split-window (MSW) technique. These two methods represent approaches suggested by vegetation analysis and landscape ecological literature, respectively. DCA was more successful in detecting vegetation changes at the community level, but it was often difficult to extrapolate this information to a landscape context. In contrast, MSW detected changes at a landscape level which overestimated minor shifts in species composition at the community level. Although results from MSW were more easily interpretable, neither method completely confirmed hypothesized boundary locations derived from field reconnaissance and aerial photo analysis. While DCA and MSW can be used in conjunction to provide maximum information on boundary location and ecological significance, this would be unrealistic in practical applications because of the time and effort required to do both simultaneously. We suggest an approach using primarily MSW principles, which take into consideration community-level information and optimum sampling plot placement and spacing.
20146889| A new Sim-CYCLE grazing model has been obtained by combining a grazing model (Seligman et al. 1992, Ecol. Model. 60: 45-61) with the Sim-CYCLE model (Ito and Oikawa 2002, Ecol. Model. 151: 143-176). The new model has been validated against a set of field data obtained at Kherlen Bayaan-Ulaan (KBU) grassland. On the basis of the model, the root responses to grazing of KBU grassland have been studied under different conditions of stocking rates and precipitation. Model results indicate that both below-ground biomass (BB) and below-ground net primary production (BNPP) generally decrease with increasing stocking rate. However, if stocking rate is not higher than 0.7 sheep ha, a sustainable state of the grassland ecosystem can be achieved after about 100 years, which suggests that the maximum sustainable stocking rate at KBU should be 0.7 sheep ha. At the sustainable state, the maximum BB in a year is about 11 Mg DM ha under non-grazing condition, 5 Mg DM ha under 0.4 sheep ha stocking rate, and 4 Mg DM ha under 0.7 sheep ha stocking rate; the BNPP is 1.3 Mg DM ha year under non-grazing condition, and 0.6 Mg DM ha year under 0.4 sheep ha stocking rate, and 0.4 Mg DM ha year under 0.7 sheep ha stocking rate. Ratio of non-assimilation organ to assimilation organ (C/F) increases with increasing stocking rate. The C/F ratio is 10.99 under non-grazing conditions, and 12.11 under 0.7 sheep ha stocking rate. Root turnover rate decreases with increasing stocking rate. The rate is 12% each year under non-grazing conditions, and 11% each year under 0.7 sheep ha stocking rate. In addition, the effect of grazing on the grassland ecosystem under different scenarios of precipitation is also analyzed. Both BB and BNPP increase with increased precipitation, and vice versa. When precipitation is set to be 10% higher than the averaged from 1993 to 2002, the maximum sustainable stocking rate is 0.8 sheep ha, and when the precipitation is set to be 15% lower than the averaged, the maximum sustainable stocking rate is 0.6 sheep ha. 
20051268|Streams experience a constant redistribution of species and in-stream plant stands due to the extensive disturbance caused by flow variation, high continuity of habitats and efficient dispersal in the stream network. These conditions increase the homogeneity of environmental conditions and composition of vegetation among stream localities and are likely to promote a positive interspecific relationship between abundance and range size through mechanisms of metapopulation dynamics and use of common widely distributed resources. Using data from 206 localities in 29 stream systems distributed throughout the cultivated lowlands of Denmark, we examined the overall relationship between local abundance and geographical range size of the vascular flora. We found a significant positive relationship for all species at all stream localities and an even stronger relationship for ecologically similar species such as obligatory submerged or amphibious species. The amphibious species, which can easily disperse by seeds between stream systems and by vegetative growth from permanent bank populations to the open streambed, had a significantly stronger abundance-range relationship than obligatory submerged species probably due to more effective dispersal. The importance of metapopulation dynamics was also supported by the fact that species in seven of the ten stream systems with multiple localities showed a stronger positive relationship than the overall relationship for all streams, while the relationship for distinct stream habitat types of the same width and lengthwise locations in different stream systems did not show a stronger positive relationship than the overall relationship. The few obligatory submerged species having a high local abundance and low range size could not be regarded as specialist species on narrowly distributed resources. Their occurrence is probably a temporal phenomenon due to the profound habitat destruction during the last 100 years, restricting to a few localities the species that were previously widely distributed. Many species presently survive in a marginal position of low range size and low local abundance. They face a double jeopardy of extinction and may have difficulty benefitting from environmental improvements.
20050778|Nowhere is the species diversity of geophytes greater than in the five mediterranean-climate ecosystems of the world. Of these, the Cape mediterranean zone of South Africa is the most speciose. While the relative diversity and importance of geophytes of all of the other four mediterranean regions of the world drops off sharply as one moves into adjacent winter-rainfall desert regions, geophytes in the semi-arid to arid Succulent Karoo (including Namaqualand) remain a very important component of the flora, both in terms of abundance and diversity (comprising 13 to 29% of the regional floras in this region). Apart from species richness, there are also a number of interesting geophyte growth forms in this region. One unusual growth form is geophytes with flattened leaves that lie prostrate on the soil surface. At least eight families (Amaryllidaceae, Colchicaceae, Eriospermaceae, Geraniaceae, Hyacinthaceae, Iridaceae, Orchidaceae and Oxalidaceae) exhibit this growth form. While this growth form is relatively common in many geophyte lineages in the Succulent Karoo biome and the Cape mediterranean zone (Fynbos biome), and occurs infrequently through the summer-rainfall temperate regions of Africa, it is virtually absent in other regions worldwide. A null hypothesis is that the prostrate leaved trait is a neutral characteristic, however biogeographical data do not support this. A neutral trait would be unlikely to show such a clear pattern of distribution. Several alternative hypotheses on the adaptive significance of this growth form are discussed. These include: avoidance of herbivory, reduction in competition from neighbors, creation of a CO enriched environment below the leaves, reduction of water loss around the roots, reduction of water loss through transpiration, precipitation of dew on the leaves and maintenance of optimal leaf temperatures for growth.
40305468|In order to understand better the ecology of the temperate species Quercus petraea and the sub-Mediterranean species Quercus pyrenaica, two deciduous oaks, seedlings were raised in two contrasting light environments (SH, 5.3% full sunlight vs. HL, 70% full sunlight) for 2 years, and a subset of the SH seedlings were transferred to HL (SH-HL) in the summer of the second year. We predicted that Q. pyrenaica would behave more as a stress-tolerant species, with lower specific leaf area (SLA), allocation to leaf mass, and growth rate and less responsiveness to light in these metrics, than Q. petraea, presumed to be more competitive when resources, especially light and water, are abundant. Seedlings of Q. petraea had larger leaves with higher SLA, and exhibited a greater relative growth rate (RGR) in both SH and HL. They also displayed a higher proportion of biomass in stems (SMF), and a lower root to shoot ratio (R/S) in HL than those of Q. pyrenaica, which sprouted profusely, and had higher rates of photosynthesis (An) and stomatal conductance (gwvX but lower whole-plant net assimilation rate (NAR). On exposure to a sudden increase in light, SH-HL seedlings of both species showed a short period of photoinhibition, but fully acclimated photosynthetic features within 46 days after transference; height, main stem diameter, RGR and NAR all increased at the end of the experiment compared to SH seedlings, with these increases more pronounced in Q. petraea. Observed differences in traits and responses to light confirmed a contrasting ecology at the seedling stage in Q. petraea and Q. pyrenaica in consonance with differences in their overall distribution. We discuss how the characteristics of Q. petraea may limit the availability of suitable regeneration niches to microsites of high-resource availability in marginal populations of Mediterranean climate, with potential negative consequences for its recruitment under predicted climatic changes.
20146572|The probability of mortality of Pinus halepensis and P. pinea trees after 6 separate wildfires (which took place from 1989 to 1991 in South Eastern France) was modelled with logistic regression analysis using data on tree size and fire-damage descriptors from 998 trees in 13 stands. For both species, probability of mortality increased with increasing percentage of crown scorched and estimated depth of bark charring, and with decreasing tree DBH. The best fitted and field convenient model was selected for each species. Fire-caused mortality of P. halepensis is a function of these three variables and for P. pinea is a function of the first two variables only. Analysis of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves indicated that the selected models perform well for both species with 85 and 95 percent concordance between predicted probabilities and observed outcomes for P. halepensis and P. pinea respectively. Models may be used for guiding salvage fire-damaged P. halepensis or P. pinea stands. This paper reports on cases of different management scenarios by selecting different decision criteria when using the proposed models. Comparative analysis of fire resistance and survival of the two Mediterranean pine species shows that P. halepensis is more fire sensitive than P. pinea.
20050977|A seven-year study of marked plants and plots in Stipagrostis ciliata (Desf.) de Winter dune grassland, in the arid (&lt100 mm
23362476|Both Impatiens glandulifera and Fallopia japonica are highly invasive plant species that have detrimental impacts on native biodiversity in areas where they invade and form dense monocultures. Both species are weakly dependent on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) for their growth and, therefore, under monotypic stands, the AMF network can become depauperate. We evaluated the impact of I. glandulifera and F. japonica on the performance (expressed as shoot biomass) of three UK native species (Plantago lanceolata, Lotus corniculatus and Trifolium pratense) grown in soil collected from under stands of both invasive plants and compared to plants grown in soil from under stands of the corresponding native vegetation. All native species had a higher percentage colonisation of AMF when grown in uninvaded soil compared to the corresponding invaded soil. P. lanceolata and L. corniculatus had a higher biomass when grown in uninvaded soil compared to corresponding invaded soil indicating an indirect impact from the non-native species. However, for T. pratense there was no difference in biomass between soil types related to I. glandulifera, suggesting that the species is more reliant on rhizobial bacteria. We conclude that simply managing invasive populations of non-native species that are weakly, or non-dependent, on AMF is inadequate for habitat restoration as native plant colonisation and establishment may be hindered by the depleted levels of AMF in the soil below invaded monocultures. We suggest that the reintroduction of native plants to promote AMF proliferation should be incorporated into future management plans for habitats degraded by non-native plant species.
20050835|Analysis of aerial photographs indicates that woody plant biomass has rapidly increased in Hluhluwe Game Reserve over the last 40 years. Open Acacia nilotica savanna is being replaced by broadleaf species, especially Euclea spp. We were interested in whether this secondary successional shift was due to high numbers of seedlings establishing and growing to maturity under acacias (facilitation) or due to the release of already established, but suppressed individuals ('gullivers') of the resprouting broadleaf species. We examined the recruitment patterns and size-class distributions (height, basal diameter) of important species in this savanna. Densities of euclea seedlings (&lt0.6 cm basal diameter) under Acacia nilotica were low (median of 0 and mean of 0.06 m) below adult canopies and effectively zero in adjacent interspaces. No differences in numbers of other broadleaf species were found between open sites and under Acacia nilotica sites. Few large eucleas or other broadleaf species occurred under Acacia nilotica. Few Acacia nilotica recruits were found either under adults or in the open whereas Acacia karroo recruits were more common. The overall size class distribution for eucleas was dominated by individuals in the intermediate size class, suggesting that recruitment is not the dominant demographic process. We propose that the escape of intermediate sized eucleas from the fire trap has caused the increase in woody plants. Analysis of a time sequence of aerial photographs shows that invasion occurred rapidly between 1954 and 1975. A common feature for sites where woody plant invasion has taken place, was the presence of barriers to fire (especially roads). We suggest that the recent and rapid increase in woody vegetation is due to a decrease in the frequency of intense fires, rather than the recent absence of megaherbivores which allowed Acacia nilotica establishment. Few intense fires allow suppressed tree or shrub individuals, ('gullivers'), to escape the grass/fire layer and thereby become tall and fire-resistant. This release may explain the rapid rate of invasion by inherently slow growing broad-leaf species.
40305732|We assess the population genetic structure of the invasive riparian weed Impatiens glandulifera, and where possible, determine whether natural or anthropogenic dispersal best explains the observed patterns. Results are compared with a similar contemporary analysis for Heracleum mantegazzianum undertaken in the same catchments, and we suggest that some of the observed differences in genetic structure could be because of life history differences between these species. Our results confirm the importance of at least occasional dispersal events mediated by human activity in the colonisation and subsequent spread of invasive plants in river catchments. However, processes related to river structure, dispersal range and genetic drift also appear to be structuring these populations over short temporal scales. The implication is that local populations can be established as small founders, and therefore eradication programs need to be thorough and undertaken at the catchment scale. Effective management needs to consider the natural spread of riparian species along rivers, but also prevent longdistance dispersal from sources outside the catchment.
20050450|A study was carried out on a Mediterranean limestone grassland to search for the ecological significance of the occurrence of annuals. In the studied grassland, most of annuals are concentrated in patches. Authors tested if annuals (1) correspond to the R-strategy (ruderal) according to Grime's theory, i. e. they are adapted to live in disturbed, productive habitats, or (2) if they present an adaptation to a xeric climate in keeping with Raunkiaer. The correspondence analyses and the examination of plants strategies reveal that: (1) annuals are grouped with the more xerophytic perennials in the ordination, (2) the cover of annuals is higher in plots with a high cover of S species (stress-tolerators) and a lower cover of C species (competitors) and CS species (intermediate strategy). These results constitute arguments to integrate annuals of Mediterranean grasslands into stress-tolerators. In the discussion are examined the importance of patches in which annuals are preferentially located. Although patches are generated by disturbances, the presence of annuals is explained by their life cycle fitting the microclimate variations, characterized by an extreme summer drought. Their cycle is not adapted here to the frequency of disturbances (unless the summer drought is considered as annual disturbance -- this last point of view is discussed). In the studied grassland, annuals are then better thought of as highly developed stress-tolerators than as ruderals. A generalization is put forward by distinguishing two cases: in xeric habitats, annuals are stress-tolerant, and in productive habitats, they are ruderal.
20146890|The effects of 16 years of continuous browsing by goats in a South African savanna at stocking rates intended for bush control were compared with plots unbrowsed for the same period of time. Differences in bush-clump density, structure and species composition were recorded. Bush-clump density did not differ between browsed and unbrowsed plots. Within individual bush-clumps, browsing was shown to impact more on structure than species composition, with smaller, shorter bush-clumps, containing fewer species but much greater stem-densities. Although species presence/absence was little affected by browsing, many species showed differences in abundance, growth and location within browsed and unbrowsed bush-clumps. Species reduced in abundance in browsed plots included Cussonia spicata, Ehretia rigida, Grewia occidentalis, Jasminum angulare and Senecio linifolius. Several species showed reduced growth in browsed plots, particularly those located at bush-clump edges. The relatively unpreferred Aloe ferox was a notable exception. Although browsing had little effect on the composition of the main clump founding species, emergents or late arrivals, there were twice as many single plants in browsed plots and emergence of several species was restricted to the middle of bush-clumps. Comparison of our findings with aerial photographic evidence and other literature suggest that browsing alone is unlikely to significantly reduce scrub cover, although it can clearly control further expansion. Combinations of fire and browsing, rather than one factor alone, are considered likely to act fastest and most effectively to significantly reduce or remove scrub cover altogether.
20050969|Three grasses (Holcus lanatus, Anthoxanthum odoratum and Festuca ovina) and three herbs (Rumex obtusifolius, Plantago lanceolata and Hieracium pilosella) were grown in a greenhouse at 3 nutrient levels in order to evaluate plant allocation, architecture and biomass turnover in relation to fertility level of their habitats. Four harvests were done at intervals of 4 weeks. Various plant traits related to biomass partitioning, plant architecture, biomass turnover and performance were determined. Differences in nutrient supply induced a strong functional response in the species shoot:root allocation, but architecture and turnover showed little or no response. Architectural parameters like specific leaf area and specific root length, however, in general decreased during plant development. Species from more nutrient-rich successional stages were characterized by a larger specific leaf area and longer specific shoot height (height/shoot biomass), resulting in a higher RGR and total biomass in all nutrient conditions. There was no evidence that species from nutrient-poor environments had a longer specific root length or any other superior growth characteristic. The only advantage displayed by these species was a lower leaf turnover when expressed as the fraction of dead leaves and a shorter specific shoot height (SSH) which might prevent herbivory and mowing losses. The dead leaf fraction, which is a good indicator for biomass and nutrient loss, appeared to be not only determined by the leaf longevity, but was also found to be directly related to the RGR of the species. This new fact might explain the slow relative growth rates in species from a nutrient-poor habitat and should be considered in future discussions about turnover.
41508728|Species diversity in mixed forest stands is one of the factors that complicate up-scaling of transpiration from individual trees to stand level, since tree species are architecturally and functionally different. In this study, thermal dissipation probes were used to measure sap flow in five different tree species in a mixed-deciduous mountain forest in South Korea. Easily measurable tree characteristics that could serve to define individual tree water use among the different species were employed to scale up transpiration from single trees to stand level. Tree water use (TWU) was derived from sap flux density (SFD) and sapwood area (SA). Canopy transpiration E was scaled from TWU while canopy conductance (g c ) was computed from E and VPD. SFD, TWU and g c were correlated with tree diameter at breast height (DBH) for all the five measured species (SFD: R = 0.21, P = 0.036; TWU: R = 0.83, P < 0.001; g c : R = 0.63, P < 0.001). Maximum stand transpiration (E) during June, before the onset of the Asian monsoon rains, was estimated at 0.97  0.12 mm per day. There was a good (R2 = 0.94, P < 0.0001) agreement between measured and estimated E using the relationship between TWU and DBH. Our study shows that using functional models that employ converging traits among species could help in estimating water use in mixed forest stands. Compared to SA, DBH is a better scalar for water use of mixed forest stands since it is non-destructive and easily obtainable.
20050613|We determined the role of bird dispersal in seed and seedling dynamics of the tree Kalopanax pictus from 7 years of observing seed rain and seedling emergence in a broad-leaved deciduous forest in central Japan. We also performed an experiment on the influence of seed pulp on germination of seeds of K. pictus. Seeds of this species can lie dormant for several years, and this causes rather constant yearly seedling emergence in spite of irregular seed production. The spatial distribution of the seedlings that emerged each year (maximum distance from nearest conspecific seed-bearing tree of 90 m) was wider than that of gravity-dispersed seeds (max. distance of 37 m), suggesting seed dispersal by birds in winter. Emerged seedling densities at sites over 20 m from the nearest conspecific seed-bearing tree were highest in the spring of 1991, about half a year after the largest seed fall of the observation period. However, emerged seedling densities within 20 m from seed-bearing trees were highest in 1992, 1.5 years after the largest seed fall. These field observations may be explained by the experimental results on the effects of seed pulp on germination. Intact seeds germinate slowly at low germination rates, while seeds without seed pulp germinate quickly at high germination rates. Fallen seeds with seed pulp thus appear to form a seed bank near seed sources (temporal dispersal), while seeds scattered by birds appear to increase the possibility of reaching the present safe sites in distant areas with quick germination (spatial dispersal).
41508844|The colonization of artificially created gaps was analyzed along an alpine successional gradient from pioneer to early, late, and old successional stages. The presence/absence of species and the abundances of seedlings and adults in the gaps were recorded and compared with those of the surrounding areas. We hypothesized that in the older successional stages, the gaps were likely to be colonized by clonal ingrowth of the surrounding species. In the younger stages, we expected to find a high presence of seedlings and adults recruited by seeds. Micro-succession in the gaps occurred at each successional stage, with all life forms among the colonizers. The abundance of seedlings was significantly higher in the gaps compared with the surrounding area. At the early and late successional stages, the surrounding areas provided safe sites for seedling establishment, with the abundance of adults recruited by seeds higher at the gap edges than in the gap centers. We can confirm the first hypothesis of a higher clonal ingrowth in the old successional stage. Clonal ingrowth also occurred in the younger successional stages. Despite the lower species richness in the gaps, a positive correlation was found between gap and surrounding species frequencies, which were the highest in the pioneer and the lowest in the old successional stage. We conclude that gaps are relevant for seedling recruitment along the entire primary succession gradient. New species invasions from greater distances were not observed in the gaps. The dominant species on each site were identified to be successful gap colonizers.
20146799| Bray and Curtis ordination was used to explore which environmental variables explained importance values and the presence-absence of tropical tree seedlings, saplings and adults in La Escondida-La Cabaa, Sierra de Manantln, Jalisco, Mexico. The diameters of trees 2.5 cm DBH and the presence and height of seedlings and saplings were measured in nine 0.1 ha sites. Four matrices including presence-absence data and importance value indices for trees and seedlings and saplings were analyzed through Bray and Curtis ordination. The matrices were based on density, frequency, and dominance of adult trees as well as seedlings and saplings. The environmental matrix consisted of 18 variables, including elevation, slope, canopy gaps, disturbance, and soil variables. We recorded 63 tree species and 38 seedling and sapling species in the nine sites. The ordination explained 70.9% of the variation in importance value data for trees and 62.6% for seedlings and saplings. The variation explained in presence-absence data for trees was 67.1 and 77.4% for seedlings and saplings. The variance in the ordination axes of seedlings and sapling presence-absence data was poorly explained by the number of gaps in the tree, shrub, or herb layer, suggesting little light specialization by seedlings and saplings. Habitat specialization for soil nutrients appears to be important in explaining the presence-absence of seedlings and saplings. Seedling and sapling specialization along different soil microsites could promote species coexistence in this forest, while heterogeneity in light conditions may instead determine differences in growth and, thus, importance value of trees. We hypothesize that in tropical dry forest in Jalisco, Mexico, a habitat specialization for soil resources is likely more important at early stages in tree life histories than in later life history. 
20050553|The present paper describes the anemochorous dispersal of representative diaspores of Asteraceae, Dipsacaceae, and Poaceae from xerothermic grassland communities of Central and Northeastern Germany. For eleven species, potential dispersal distance was determined by fall velocity experiments as well as by taking into account the diaspore flight angle under the influence of an artificially-produced, regularly, and horizontally blowing air stream. The latter is a new and comparatively simple method enabling the implementation of mathematical formulas which describe the potential flight capacity of a diaspore for different wind speeds and exposition heights. Surface structures, shown by a scanning electron microscope, were consulted for the interpretation of results. Of the species considered, the best fliers are the diaspores of Asteraceae and Melica ciliata (Poaceae) characterized by a plumous pappus or a hairy lemma. The wing-like attachments of the diaspores of the other investigated Poaceae and Dipsacaceae are clearly less efficient for wind dispersal. The fall rates of the investigated species agree to a great extent with literature data. But a critical comparison of both methods employed shows that fall velocity as a measure of horizontal diaspore flight capacity is only suitable for low wind force &lt 2 m
20050439|The floodplain ecosystem of the Nyl River is located in a semi-arid region of South Africa where water limits both human development and ecosystem functioning. Proposed upstream impoundments threaten the ecosystem's functioning and hence its conservation value and eco-tourist potential. Articulation of these threats to the floodplain ecosystem requires a predictive understanding of the relationships between the biota and hydro-geomorphic processes. This study provides the basis for the establishment of these relationships by presenting a description of the plant assemblages of the Nyl River floodplain, identifying environmental correlates of this vegetation pattern, and by distinguishing functional plant groups. A correspondence analysis identified three major vegetation associations on the floodplain ecosystem: near-channel sites, hydromorphic sites and sodic sites. Geomorphic landform type, soil moisture and soil texture were the best correlates of the vegetation pattern. Elevation above the channel and distance from the channel were poor correlates of vegetation pattern. The distribution of functional groups, which were defined by plant life forms, showed that the near-channel sites were dominated by prostrate and decumbent grasses, hydromorphic sites by erect grasses, and sodic sites by a variety of succulent life forms. The plant-environment relationships recognized suggest that future distributions of functional plant groups may provide a sensitive index of the impacts of anticipated reductions in run-off.
20051206|The effects of different intensities of cattle grazing on the aboveground growth, reproduction, and abundances of three palatable forbs were studied in native tallgrass prairie. Populations of Aster ericoides, Ruellia humilis, and Amorpha canescens were sampled at peak flowering during the 1993-1995 growing seasons in four annually-burned sites varying in cattle stocking density [ungrazed, low, moderate, high]. The three forbs exhibited reduced shoot growth and/or reproduction under moderate to heavy grazing, and in no case did grazing increase any measure of plant performance. Ruellia showed reduced shoot height and biomass, percentage of stems flowering, and reproductive biomass in response to grazing. Aster showed decreases in shoot biomass and height with grazing. Amorpha showed no change in shoot or reproductive biomass, but a decrease in percent of flowering stems and in reproductive allocation with grazing. Patterns in the percentage of stems grazed indicated generally high but variable palatability among these species. By contrast, the three species showed inconsistent population response to grazing. Abundance (frequency) of all three species indicated no short-term change between years in response to grazing intensity. Responses of these species differ considerably from those of most other perennial tallgrass prairie forbs that are unpalatable, unconsumed, and increase in performance (e.g. size, abundance) due to release from competition from the dominant grasses under ungulate grazing. The results demonstrate that immediate aboveground growth and reproductive responses of established adults to grazing are not good predictors of grazer effects on population abundances in tallgrass prairie.
20146589|Long-lived understory herbs experience a highly dynamic forest over space and time, yet can persist for more than a century. To understand how these populations persist, we examined effects of forest age and disturbance on potential sexual reproduction and clonal growth in the sexually labile perennial, Arisaema triphyllum. Potential sexual reproduction (female: male ratio) was significantly greater in the Young and Old-Gap forest states compared with Old, closed-canopy sites, where it was virtually absent. In contrast, clonal growth (estimated by cormlet production) did not differ significantly among the three forest states. Of seven environmental variables measured, only light (positively) and plant density (negatively) contributed significantly to the variation in potential sexual reproduction, while no measured variables contributed significantly to the variation in number of cormlets. The larger sexual reproductive effort (flower+stalk biomass/total biomass) for males in the undisturbed, 100 yr old forest may explain the absence of females in these sites, while the invariant vegetative reproductive effort (cormlet biomass/total biomass) may explain the similarity in average number of cormlets per individual per season across forest states. These results suggest that potential sexual reproduction is resource-limited, while clonal growth may be resource-independent. By maintaining ramet production during unfavorable periods, A. triphyllum populations disperse temporally, "waiting" for conditions under which sexual reproduction may resume.
40305460|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) has been suggested as a useful indicator of elevation stress and, hence, distribution limits in plants. However, no plant studies have been carried out to test (i) whether FA shows a gradual increase towards the alpine distribution limit and (ii) whether FA responds to elevation stress independent of other stressors which is necessary for FA to be a useful indicator in this context. To test these two hypotheses, this 2-year field study investigated the dose-response relationship between elevation stress and FA in mountain birch (Betula pubescens) under contrasting levels of insect attack in northern Norway. The results showed that FA increased linearly from sea level towards the tree line in both years independent of insect attack, which had no observable effect on FA, i. e. insect attack did not appear to disturb the FA-elevation relation. Thus, in mountain birch, FA appeared to be a reliable indicator of elevation stress. Further investigation is now needed in order to develop this hypothesis.
40305699|We monitored the recruitment, survival, and growth of tree saplings on invasive (Larix kaempferi) versus native species (Betula and Populus) using 16 20 m x 20 m plots established along elevation gradient on the volcano Mount Koma, Japan, for 7 years because the sapling behaviors should determine forest structures. The crowding of overstory consists mostly of Larix decreased with increasing elevation. Larix recruits were conspicuous, particularly at middle elevation where overstory crowding was intermediate, while Betula recruits were least. Larix overstory crowding inhibited the recruitment of all the taxa, although intermediate crowding promoted the recruitment of Larix. The restriction of sapling emergence was conspicuous at lower elevation where the overstory crowding was highest, probably because of shading, and/or competition with overstory trees. Sapling recruitment for all taxa was restricted at higher elevation, due to high stresses derived from direct solar radiation and strong wind without overstory. The survival of saplings was 96% for Larix and Betula, while it was ca. 50% for Populus. Larix overstory decreased the survival and growth of all the taxa, except Larix survival and Betula growth. The results implied that Larix could establish by high survival once the recruits succeeded everywhere and native sapling regeneration was restricted by Larix overstory. Strong recruitment, survival, and growth of Larix, together with resistance to overstory crowding, enables it to dominate and persist in such disturbed areas regardless of the canopy closure.
20050601|A general calibration of Ellenberg indicator values for moisture, acidity, nutrient availability and salinity was carried out on a large database of releves and environmental variables from a variety of ecosystems in the Netherlands. Satisfying relationships with Ellenberg indicator values for moisture, acidity and salinity were found for mean groundwater level in spring time, soil pH and chloride concentration in groundwater. For mean groundwater level in spring and chloride concentration in groundwater subdivision of the database led to clearer relationships with indicator values. For the Ellenberg indicator value for nutrient availability satisfying calibration results were only achieved with data on standing crops and N stock in standing crop. The relationship with soil chemical variables was less clear. Although the correlation between indicator and measured values is obvious, the variation around the regression lines is considerable. However, because of the size and composition of the database, it is unlikely that our calibration results can be much improved by adding more (Dutch) data. The calibration results will be applied in the multi-stress model SMART-MOVE, developed to predict changes in species composition due to acidification, eutrophication and the effects of lowering groundwater.
20050673|In the Central Grasslands of the United States, we hypothesized that riparian zones high in soil fertility would contain more exotic plant species than upland areas of low soil fertility. Our alternate hypothesis was that riparian zones high in native plant species richness and cover would monopolize available resources and resist invasion by exotic species. We gathered nested-scale vegetation data from 40 1 msubplots (nested in four 1000 m plots) in both riparian and upland sites at four study areas in Colorado, Wyoming, and South Dakota (a total of 320 1 msubplots and 32 1000 m plots). At the 1 m scale, mean foliar cover of native species was significantly greater (P &lt 0.001) in riparian zones (36.3%  1.7%) compared to upland sites (28.7%  1.5%), but at this small scale there were no consistent patterns of native and exotic species richness among the four management areas. Mean exotic species cover was slightly higher in upland sites compared to riparian sites (9.0%  3.8% versus 8.2%  3.0% cover). However, mean exotic species richness and cover were greater in the riparian zones than upland sites in three of four management areas. At the 1000 m scale, mean exotic species richness was also significantly greater (P &lt 0.05) in riparian zones (7.8  1.0 species) compared to upland sites (4.8  1.0 species) despite the heavy invasion of one upland site. For all 32 plots combined, 21% of the variance in exotic species richness was explained by positive relationships with soil % silt (t = 1.7, P = 0.09) and total foliar cover (t = 2.4, P = 0.02). Likewise, 26% of the variance in exotic species cover (
20050416|Different cultivars of bush beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) originating from Central and Southern Europe were grown from July to August/September 1993 up to 7 and 8 weeks, respectively, in two greenhouses covered by different UV-B-absorbing (280-320nm) plastic foils. By using the ambient UV-B radiation of the southern location (Portugal, 38.7N, 9.1W) in one of the greenhouses as intense UV-B radiation compared to the reduced radiation in the second greenhouse at the same place, a difference in UV-B of about 8-10% was simulated. All cultivars examined showed significant reductions in height of up to 31,8% in most growth phases under intense UV-B. Also fresh and dry weight as well as leaf area were reduced under intense UV-B in the cultivars Purple Teepee, Cropper Teepee and Goldstrahl, and in early growth phases also in Coco bianco, but with ongoing development this cultivar caught up. Cultivars Hilds Maja, Primel, Manata and Cannellino exhibited no UV-B effects on weight and leaf area. A flowering delay of up to 1 day was observed under intense UV-B in several cultivars. Probably due to this delay the yield (fresh weight of fruits) decreased in all cultivars up to 55% under intense UV-B at harvest time, while the potential yield (sum of buds, opened flowers and fruits) was reduced only in the cultivars Cropper Teepee, Purple Teepee, Cannellino and Goldstrahl. The UV-sensitivity index (UVSI) calculated according to the UV induced changes in growth, dry weight and yield at the second harvest date has shown that all cultivars are UV-sensitive, however the index was numerically higher for Southern European cultivars (average = 2.5) than for Central European ones (average = 2.3) which means that the first group was slightly less UV-sensitive than the second.
40305762|Invasive bird-dispersed plants often share the same suite of dispersers as co-occurring native species, resulting in a complex management issue. Integrated management strategies could incorporate manipulation of dispersal or establishment processes. To improve our understanding of these processes, we quantified seed rain, recruit and seed bank density, and species richness for bird-dispersed invasive and native species in three early successional subtropical habitats in eastern Australia: tree regrowth, shrub regrowth and native restoration plantings. We investigated the effects of environmental factors (leaf area index (LAI), distance to edge, herbaceous ground cover and distance to nearest neighbour) on seed rain, seed bank and recruit abundance. Propagule availability was not always a good predictor of recruitment. For instance, although native tree seed rain density was similar, and species richness was higher, in native plantings, compared with tree regrowth, recruit density and species richness were lower. Native plantings also received lower densities of invasive tree seed rain than did tree regrowth habitats, but supported a similar density of invasive tree recruits. Invasive shrub seed rain was recorded in highest densities in shrub regrowth sites, but recruit density was similar between habitats. We discuss the role of microsite characteristics in influencing postdispersal processes and recruit composition, and suggest ways of manipulating these processes as part of an integrated management strategy for birddispersed weeds in natural areas.
40802519|This study examines anthropogenic impacts on the pollination ecology o Sabatia kennedyana Fern. (Gentianaceae), aprotandrous, insect-pollinated species at risk. Pollination processes were explored in disturbed and non-disturbed sites in both high and low density patches on each of three lakes in southwest Nova Scotia, Canada. The primary pollinators were Syrphid flies (Dptera: Syrphidae) and Halictid bees (Hymenoptera: Halictidae). Pollinator diversity was not significantly different among lakes or sites. High flowering density plots were visited significantly more frequently than low density plots in all site types; pollination rates and handling time were significantly lower in disturbed compared to non-disturbed sites, such that pollinators both visited and spent less time handling flowers in disturbed sites. The reproductive success of openpollinated flowers was significantly different among lakes; there was also a disturbance by lake interaction with higher reproductive success on disturbed sites in two of the lakes. Thus, this study finds evidence of reduced pollination service together with a beneficial reproductive effect of disturbance. The significance of these results and the possibility that the spatial genetic structure of disturbed sites is reduced are discussed. We conclude that reduced pollination service and changes in the genetic structure of populations demonstrate the potentially negative impact of human associated activities on pollinator activity and plant reproductive strategy.
20146517| We document spatial changes in species diversity, composition, community structure, and mortality of trees across a gradient of water availability in a tropical dry forest in western Mexico. This gradient occurs along the main stream of a small watershed of less than 1 km in length. Four 30  80 m plots were established systematically to include the driest (ridge top of the watershed) to the wettest sites (watershed bottom) within this watershed. All stems larger than 5 cm were identified, and measured for diameter and height. Dead stems larger than 5 cm were measured and classified as: a) found on live or dead trees, and b) standing ("snags") or lying ("downlogs") on the ground. The number of recorded species per plot declined from 73 to 44 species as water availability decreased. A decline in estimated total richness, and in Shannon-Wiener and Simpson diversity indices was also observed in the drier plots. Species composition strongly changed along the gradient, with the two ends of the gradient sharing only 11% of the species. Stem density and percentage of dead stems and trees increased in abundance and basal area from the wetter to the drier sites. Tree and stem size (basal area, height and stem diameter) showed the opposite trend. Nonetheless, total basal area of live trees was largest at the two end gradient locations and oscillated between 12.22 m ha and 7.93 m ha. Proportion of snags increased towards the driest site (from 46 to 72%), while that of down logs decreased. Overall, our results suggest that small-scale gradients of water availability play a paramount role in the spatial organization of tree communities in seasonal tropical environments. 
20146832|I evaluated whether plants gain high dispersal success by synchronizing their fruiting with frugivore abundance. Fruiting phenologies, seasonal fluctuations in the abundance of frugivorous birds, and consumption of fruits by birds and Japanese macaques, Macaca fuscata Blyth, were studied in the montane forest of Yakushima for two years. At the community level, fruiting phenologies and seasonal fluctuations in frugivorous bird abundance were asynchronous because Zosterops japonica Temminck et Schlegel, a resident frugivore, decreased in number during the fruiting season. In addition, Symplocos myrtacea Sieb. et Zucc. fruited in September, before the migration of frugivorous birds (Turdus spp. and brown-eared bulbuls Hypsypetes amaurotis Temminck) in November and December. The phenology of other fruit species (Eurya japonica Thunb. and Cleyera japonica Thunb.p.p.emend. Sieb. et Zucc) were synchronized with migrant frugivorous birds. Fruit species with phenologies that are synchronized with migrant frugivore abundances have higher dispersal success either by birds (C. japonica) or macaques (E. japonica). Macaques predated most of the seeds of S. myrtacea. Dispersal success of S. myrtacea is low both by birds and macaques, thus the early fruiting by S. myrtacea does not seem to be an adaptation to maximize dispersal success by depending on resident dispersers or by avoiding intense competition for dispersers.
20050790|Seedlings of Brazil pine, a large-seeded South American conifer, were grown in a climate chamber to investigate vertical growth pattern and the time course of leaf development. We examined shoot growth, photosynthetic performance and markers of leaf maturation such as contents of soluble sugars and activities of sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS), neutral invertase (nI) and sucrose synthase (Susy). The daily increment of shoot length showed an optimum curve during the first 70 days after germination. The low growth rate during the first 20 days of development correlated with net CO emission of the seedling. Analyses of leaf maturation markers in older seedlings revealed low sucrose/hexose ratios and high activities of nI and Susy in the uppermost leaves. Although the SPS/Susy ratio was low in these leaves the extractable SPS activity did not change significantly among leaves of different age. The photosynthetic light compensation points of young leaves were about 2-fold higher than those of mature leaves and their photosynthetic capacity was only 50% as high. Our results indicate that a rapid maturation of leaves of Brazil pine seedlings may reduce the respiratory loss of carbohydrates and that the mobilisation of seed storage compounds supports initial shoot growth under light-limiting conditions which may occur in the forest-grassland succession zone.
20051136|The Ecuadorian Amazon, lying in the headwaters of the Napo and Aguarico River valleys, is experiencing rapid change in Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) conditions and regional landscape diversity uniquely tied to the spontaneous agricultural colonization of the Oriente region of northeastern Ecuador beginning in the mid to late 1970s. Spontaneous colonization occurred on squattered lands located adjacent to oil company roads and in government development sectors composed of multiple 50 ha land parcels organized into 'piano key' shaped family farms or fincas. Portions of these fincas were deforested for agricultural extensification depending upon the age of the finca and several site and situation factors. Because fincas are managed at the household level as spatially discrete, temporally independent units, land conversion at the finca-level is recognized as the chief proximate cause of deforestation within the region. Focusing on the spatial and temporal dynamics of deforestation, agricultural extensification, and plant succession at the finca-level, and urbanization at the community-level, a cell-based morphogenetic model of Land Use and Land Cover Change (LULCC) was developed as the foundation for a predictive model of regional LULCC dynamics and landscape diversity. Here, LULC characteristics are determined using a time-series of remotely sensed data (i.e., Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) and Multispectral Scanner (MSS)) using an experimental [semi-traditional] (hybrid unsupervised-supervised) classification scheme resulting in a time-series data set including LULC images for 1973, 1986, 1989, 1996, and 1999. Pixel histories of LULC type across the time-series were integrated into LULC trajectories and converted into seed or input data sets for LULC modeling to alternate time periods and for model validation. LULC simulations, achieved through cellular automata (CA) methodologies, were run on an annual basis to the year 2010 using 1973 as the initial conditions and the satellite time-series as the 'check points' in the simulations. The model was developed using the Imagine Spatial Modeler of the ERDAS image processing software, and enhanced using the Spatial Modeler Language (SML). The model works by (a) simulating the present by extrapolating from the past using the image time-series, (b) validating the simulations via the remotely sensed time-series of past conditions and through field observations of current conditions, (c) allowing the model to iterate to the year 2010, and (d) comparing model outputs to an autoregressive time-series approach for annual conditions that are compared via paired t-tests of pattern metrics run at the landscape-level to define compositional and structural differences between successive model outputs.
40926904|The delivery of environmental flows for biodiversity benefits within regulated river systems can potentially contribute to exotic weed spread. This study explores whether exotic plants of a floodplain forest in Victoria, Australia, are characterised by specific functional groups and associated plant traits linked to altering hydrological conditions over time. Permanently marked 20  20 m plots from five wetland sites in Eucalyptus camaldulensis floodplain forest were sampled twice, first in the early 1990s (1993-1994) and then 15 years later (2007-2008). Species cover abundance data for understorey vegetation communities were segregated by season and analysed using ordination analysis. Exotic species richness was modelled as a function of site flooding history and native species richness using general linear models. Site ordinations by detrended correspondence analysis showed differential community compositions between survey dates, but native and exotic species were not clearly differentiated in terms of DCA1 scores. Most exotics belonged to functional groups containing annual species that germinate and reproduce under drier conditions. Exotics reproducing under wetter conditions were in the minority, predominantly perennial and capable of both sexual and asexual reproduction. Site flooding history and native species richness significantly predicted exotic species richness. Vegetation changes are partially structured by reduced flood frequency favouring increased abundance of exotic, sexually reproducing annuals at drier sites. Sites of low flood frequency are more sensitive to future exotic weed invasion and will require targeted management effort. Row restoration is predicted to benefit propagule dispersal of species adopting dual regeneration strategies, which are predominantly natives in this system.
23500346|Flooding and high salinity generally induce physiological stress in wetland vascular plants which may increase in intensity with sea-level rise (SLR). We tested the effects of these factors on seedling growth in a transplant experiment in a macrotidal estuary in the Pacific Northwest. Seven common wetland species were grown at mean higher high water (MHHW, a typical mid-marsh elevation), and at 25 and 50 cm below MHHW in oligohaline, mesohaline, and polyhaline marshes. Increased flooding reduced shoot and root growth in all species, including those typically found at middle or lower tidal elevations. It also generally disproportionately reduced root biomass. For more sensitive species, biomass declined by >50 % at only 25 cm below MHHW at the oligohaline site. Plant growth was also strongly reduced under polyhaline conditions relative to the less saline sites. By combining inundation and salinity time-series measurements we estimated a salt exposure index for each site by elevation treatment. Higher values of the index were associated with lower root and shoot biomass for all species and a relatively greater loss of below-ground than above-ground production in most species. Our results suggest that inundation and salinity stress individually and (often) interactively reduce productivity across a suite of common marsh species. As relative SLR increases the intensity of stress on coastal marsh plants, negative effects on biomass may occur across a range of species and especially on below-ground production.
40305629|Red spruce forests have declined considerably throughout their range in the past decades. As agricultural fields are abandoned and land becomes available for reforestation, the possibility arises for red spruce forests to expand onto them. This study addresses the potential for red spruce forests to expand onto adjacent old fields in Greenwich, Prince Edward Island National Park, Canada. We examined red spruce distribution and abundance, plant species diversity and changes in community composition along a gradient from the interior of red spruce forests out towards the centre of adjacent old fields. Examining the patterns of red spruce distribution and abundance revealed that, where cultivation and logging have been abandoned recently in the fields and forests, regeneration is limited to the forest stands, but in the sites with older fields and forests, regeneration extends into and is more vigorous in the fields. Although species diversity varied from forest to field only for the tree and shrub layers, important changes occurred in the ground species composition. There is no evidence yet that the herbaceous species present in the forest stands will colonise the old fields. The results suggest that both environmental differences among sites and length of time since the fields were abandoned explain red spruce regeneration patterns. In order to more accurately assess the potential for red spruce regeneration in old fields, long-term monitoring of the production, dispersal and viability of red spruce seeds from adjacent forests and of the constraints to seedling establishment and survival in old fields will be needed.
20050846|Mortality and performance (total biomass) of five exotic (weedy) and five native annual Asteraceae in Western Australia were compared along a mineral nutrient gradient. Mortality did not differ between exotic and native species but varied greatly within each group. The exotic species responded more positively to higher nutrient additions than the native species, indicating that the exotics might have a competitive advantage in a nutrient-enhanced situation (e.g., after fire). The concept of 'phenotypic inertia' (PI), combining survival and performance over a range of environments, is introduced as a means of evaluating the range of growing conditions tolerated. The two species with highest PI (one exotic and one native) had the lowest mortality and uniformly moderate biomass for the nine nutrient treatments. The species with the lowest PI (a native) had complete failure at the two highest nutrient levels and low variable growth in the remainder. PI has potential as a measure of environmental tolerance although, in the present study, the exotic species were not clearly superior to the native species in their responses to a wide range of soil nutrient levels.
20146715| A controlled environment experiment was conducted to determine the impact of enhanced carbon dioxide and temperature on competition between the C grasses Austrodanthonia eriantha and Vulpia myuros. Plants were grown in mixtures and monocultures to compare the responses both with and without an interspecific competitor. Temperature and CO were set at current levels (350 ppm CO; 20 C day and 10 C night temperature), in factorial combination with enhanced levels (700 ppm CO; 23 C day and 13 C night temperature). To examine the potential impact of initial seedling size on competition under elevated CO and temperature, the two species were combined in mixtures of differing initial sizes. Above-ground growth of all plants was enhanced by increased CO and temperature alone, however the combined temperature and CO treatment showed a sub-additive effect, where growth was less than expected based on the responses to each factor independently. Austrodanthonia in mixture with Vulpia plants of the same initial size experienced a 27% reduction in growth. Austrodanthonia grown in the presence of an initially larger Vulpia plant experienced a 58% reduction in growth. When the Vulpia plant was initially smaller than Austrodanthonia, growth of the Austrodanthonia was reduced by 16%. The growth of Vulpia appeared to be largely unaffected by the presence of Austrodanthonia. Variation in the CO and temperature environment did not affect the pattern of these interspecific interactions, although there was some evidence to suggest that the degree of suppression of Austrodanthonia by Vulpia was less under elevated CO. These results do not support the initial advantage hypothesis, as Vulpia was always able to suppress Austrodanthonia, regardless of the initial relative sizes of the competitors. Furthermore, the lack of an effect of changing the CO or temperature environment on the direction of interspecific competition suggests that the competitiveness of the invasive Vulpia will be minimally affected by changes in atmospheric CO concentration or temperature. 
20146436|In this paper the results are presented from a mesocosm study of the effects of typical dune slack plants on the soil solution nutrient contents. In dune slack succession, early successional species often show radial oxygen loss (ROL) whereas their successor species do not show ROL. ROL has impact on abiotic soil parameters and therefore, affect the competitiveness of both species. Mesocosms with Littorella uniflora and Carex nigra, used as respectively a ROL and a non-ROL species, showed remarkable differences in soil solution parameters. Special attention was given to nitrogen, as it is the limiting resource in dune slack succession. Mesocosms with L. uniflora showed a higher nitrate content in the soil than mesocosms with C. nigra and the control. Moreover, estimating the nitrogen balance, a significantly higher fraction of nitrogen was missing in L. uniflora (57%) than in C. nigra (5%). The enhanced nitrogen loss in mesocosms with L. uniflora could act as a positive-feedback mechanism for early successional stages that slows down the vegetation development in early stages of dune slack succession towards the more-productive later stages. The mechanism could even lead to alternative stable states in dune slack succession.
20051080|The winter annual species Anthemis arvensis L. (Asteraceae) was grown for 3.5 months in the field under ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation, simulating a 15% ozone depletion over Patras (38.3 N, 29.1 E). Enhanced UV-B radiation had no effect on the methanol extractable UV-B absorbing capacity of leaves, phenological and morphometric parameters of anthesis (flowering time, anthesis duration, head life span, number of heads per plant, number of tubular and ligulate florets per head, area per ligulate floret). Concerning the optical properties of heads, enhanced UV-B radiation had no significant effect on the extractable absorbance of both floret types nor on the spectral reflectance of the tubular florets. However, under UV-B supplementation the white ligulate florets exhibited a slight, statistically significant decrease of reflectance in the visible region of the spectrum. This may be due to structural changes of the floret surface, since microscopic examination under SEM revealed the papillae of the adaxial epidermal cells to be swollen. The above ground dry mass measured at plant harvest was not affected but a significant increase in root biomass (and accordingly in root/shoot ratio) was observed. We conclude that Anthemis arvensis is resistant against UV-B radiation damage. The possible consequences of UV-B induced structural changes on floret epidermis are discussed.
40305591|Paleoecological studies indicate that peatland ecosystems may exhibit bistability. This would mean that these systems are resilient to gradual changes in climate, until environmental thresholds are passed. Then, ecosystem stability is lost and rapid shifts in surface and vegetation structure at landscape scale occur. Another remarkable feature is the commonly observed self-organized spatial vegetation patterning, such as string-flark and maze patterns. Bistability and spatial selforganization may be mechanistically linked, the crucial mechanism being scale-dependent (locally positive and longer-range negative) feedback between vegetation and the peatland environment. Focusing on bogs, a previous model study shows that nutrient accumulation by vascular plants can induce such scale-dependent feedback driving pattern formation. However, stability of bog microforms such as hummocks and hollows has been attributed to different local interactions between Sphagnum, vascular plants, and the bog environment. Here we analyze both local and longer-range interactions in bogs to investigate the possible contribution of these different interactions to vegetation patterning and stability. This is done by a literature review, and subsequently these findings are incorporated in the original model. When Sphagnum and encompassing local interactions are included in this model, the boundaries between vegetation types become sharper and also the parameter region of bistability drastically increases. These results imply that vegetation patterning and stability of bogs could be synergistically governed by local and longerrange interactions. Studying the relative effect of these interactions is therefore suggested to be an important component of future predictions on the response of peatland ecosystems to climatic changes.
20050598|Current theories of plant invasion have been criticized for their limited heuristic and predictive value. We explore the heuristic and predictive potential of a model which explicitly simulates the mechanisms of plant invasion. The model, a spatially-explicit individual-based simulation, is applied to the invasion of pine trees (Pinus spp.; Pinaceae) in three vegetation types in the southern hemisphere. The model simulates factors which have been invoked as major determinants of invasive success: plant traits, environmental features and disturbance level. Results show that interactions between these determinants of invasive success are at least as important as the main effects. The complexity of invasions has promoted the belief that many factors must be invoked to explain invasions. This study shows that by incorporating interactions and mechanisms into our models we can potentially reduce the number of factors needed to predict plant invasions. The importance of interactions, however, means that predictions about invasions must be context-specific. The search for all-encompassing rules for invasions is therefore futile. The model presented here is of heuristic value since it improves our understanding of invasions, and of management value since it defines the data and models needed for predicting invasions.
20146446|Dynamics of the coexisting Mediterranean species Pinus halepensis, Quercus coccifera, Erica multiflora, Rosmarinus officinalis, Cistus albidus, C. salviifolius and Ampelodesmos mauritanica, with contrasted life history traits have been studied under different fire scenarios, following two approaches: a) field survey in areas with three different fire histories (unburned for the last 31 years, once burned in 1982, and twice burned in 1982 and 1994), and b) simulations with different fire recurrence using the FATE vegetation model. We compared observed abundance in the field survey to simulation outputs obtained from fire scenarios that mimicked field fire histories. Substantial mismatching did not occur between field survey and simulations. Higher fire recurrences were associated with an increase in the resprouting Ampelodesmos grass, together with a decrease in Pinus abundance. Resprouting shrubs did not show contrasting changes, but trends of increase in Quercus and decrease in Erica were observed. The seeders Rosmarinus and Cistus achieved maximum abundance at intermediate fire recurrence. We also performed ten 200 year simulations of increasing fire recurrence with average times between fires of 100, 40, 20, 10, and 5 years. A scenario without fire was also simulated. High fire recurrence produces an increase in Ampelodesmos, a grass which is becoming dominant in the area, and a small increase in Erica, but Quercus abundance decreases and Pinus disappears. Rosmarinus and Cistus abundance peaks at intermediate fire frequencies. When comparing these simulations to those in which Ampelodesmos was excluded, we found that the absence of the grass only increased Cistus occurrence in the community, this effect being more important at frequent fire recurrence. The study suggests that simple models based on life history traits may be useful in interpreting plant community dynamics in Mediterranean ecosystems that are greatly influenced by differences in the fire regime.
40305448|Two facets of plant competition, competitive effect (CE) and competitive response (CR), can be used to explain plant community composition but our understanding of abiotic factors that may differentially affect species' competitive ability is incomplete. We tested whether water-depth affected CE (ability to suppress neighbour) and CR (avoid suppression from neighbour), and if so whether there was consistence in the rank order of both measures of competition under different water depth treatments. CE and CR were measured and compared for eight wetland plant species (Carex lurida, Carex tribuloides, Elymus virginicus, Juncus tenuis, Lythrum salicaria, Phalaris arundinacea, Rumex orbiculatus and Verbesina alternifolia) at five different waterdepth treatments (+ 2, 0, -2 , -4 and -6 cm relative to the substrate). Overall, we found that mean CE was at its lowest value at + 2 cm water depth, while mean CR was highest at + 2 and -6 cm compared to the other water treatments. There was a significant variation of CE between species, with a defined hierarchical order. Pairwise CE rank order correlations between water depth treatments were significant but CR correlations were generally not. There was no significant correlation between CE and CR. CE was significantly correlated with biomass of species grown alone but CR was not. These findings indicate that CE may be used as a general measure to predict wetland species performance, and thus community assemblage, across a range of water depths. CR does not seem to demonstrate predicable patterns between species and water depth treatments. Our results suggest that competition intensity may be reduced in a non-resource-stressed flooded environment by a reduction in CE, but the corresponding increase in CR could dampen this effect on overall competitive ability.
20050792|Seedlings of two Southern Hemisphere temperate trees species (mountain beech: Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides (Hook. f.) Poole and broadleaf: Griselinia littoralis Raoul) were grown in the field to determine the effects of present-day levels of ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) on growth, biomass, UV-B absorbing compounds, leaf optical properties and photoinhibition. Plants were covered with either UV-B transmitting or UV-B absorbing filters. After 125 days of typical summer weather, total biomass of both species was not affected by the UV-B treatments. Without UV-B, height increased (23%) and the number of leaves produced decreased (-21%) in beech, but broadleaf was unaffected. The effect of UV-B on beech height and leaf number was manifest during a second flush of leaves suggesting differences in response to UV-B of leaves initiated in different seasons and UV-B radiation regimes. Leaves of both species were essentially opaque to the transmission of UV-B. In the absence of UV-B the transmission of photosynthetically active radiation through leaves of both species increased, foliar nitrogen concentrations increased and levels of UV-B absorbing compounds decreased. In the youngest leaves of beech but not of broadleaf, removal of UV-B reduced midday photoinhibition, and did not alter the complete recovery of the fluorescence ratio
40305480|We investigated the seed dispersal of glabrous filbert (Corylus heterophylla) and pilose filbert (Corylus mandshurica), two large-seeded shrub species in a temperate forest, northeast China, September 2006. Small mammals such as Apodemus speciosus, Clethrlonomys rufocanus, and Eutamias sibiricus, were regarded as the main dispersal agents. More seeds were harvested by small mammals in pilose filbert (98%) than in glabrous filbert (87.5%) till our last survey. Seed removal rates differed between the two species. Fewer seeds of glabrous filbert (17.5%) were eaten in situ than pilose filbert (57.5%). More seeds of glabrous filbert were removed (70%), stay intact after removal (25.5%), eaten after removal (16%) than pilose filbert. However, more seeds were cached after removal in pilose filbert than in glabrous filbert (10.5 and 4%, respectively). Fewer tagged seeds of pilose filberts (14%) were missed than glabrous filberts (24.5%). About 8 and 12 primary caches were found in glabrous filbert and pilose filbert seeds respectively, indicating scatter hoarding. All of the removed seeds were distributed within 10 m of seed stations for both filberts. The average dispersal distances for glabrous filbert did not differ from pilose filbert. Only a small proportion of the caches remained till our last survey (2 and 1%, respectively). Based on the results, we found a difference in dispersal patterns of glabrous filbert and pilose filbert seeds. Evidences showed that glabrous filberts might be a less preferred seed species for small seed-eating mammals compared with pilose filbert, probably due to its harder and thicker husk and low seed profitability.
20146779| The influence of management and nutrient availability on the vegetation dynamics of heathlands characterised by Calluna vulgaris and Erica tetralix were studied in three mountain sites in Northern Spain. A total of 90 plots (1 m each) received different combinations of cutting and twice the estimated background atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (56 kg ha yr). One of the two dominant ericaceous species was selectively cut by hand at ground level and their regeneration compared in the presence or absence of the other. The results after 2 years showed significant effects of the fertiliser on the vegetation cover, mainly by favouring perennial herbaceous species. There were less noteworthy effects on the number of flowers and on the annual growth of the ericaceous species. It is concluded that, in the short term, increased nutrients alone, at twice the estimated current atmospheric deposition for the area, will not alter significantly the composition of the mountain heathlands. However, once the stands reach the mature phase, the capacity of the community to regenerate after a severe disturbance diminishes. A drastic impact, such as cutting may not result in re-growth of the same shrub species but in replacement by herbaceous species, which will also benefit from the increased nutrients. 
40606942|Information on the current processes controlling the distribution patterns of relict palm populations at the limit of their northwestern distribution in America are poorly known. We explored the importance of post-dispersal seed removal by vertebrates, recruitment, and distribution patterns of the blue fan palm, Brahea armata, in the Northern Baja California peninsula, by evaluating (i) the levels of blue fan palm seed removal by vertebrates at two spatial scales and the initial fate of dispersed seeds, (ii) the spatial distribution and association of seedlings and adults at two spatial scales, (iii) seed removal levels and seedling densities based on density and distance to adult palm trees, and (iv) the population age structure. Overall, seed removal levels were low at all sites, varied at regional but not at local scales, with small rodents apparently being responsible of most removals. Adult density and distribution differed among oases, but seedling densities did differ locally. Whereas seed removal did not vary with distance from seed sources or parent trees, a weak positive association between seedlings and adults at the whole patch level indicated that establishment tended to occur in or near those grid cells where adults had established successfully. However, the analysis showed a negative association between seedling and adult densities within the patches, indicating that within the grid cells where growth was most successful, seedlings established preferentially in relatively open spaces. All life-history categories were adequately represented within each site and populations seemed to be in a fairly good conservation state. We did not find evidence to establish that post-dispersal seed removal by rodents is a main factor defining the recruitment patterns in these oases. In contrast, the effect of flood pulses seems to be significant and may have strong and conclusive effects on palm seedling distributions. We suggest that local biotic (nurse plants) and/or abiotic (canyon physiography, nurse objects) factors at each particular canyon have the potential to affect post-dispersal seed removal activity patterns by rodents, as well as to provide vital protection for palm seedling establishment from the extreme floods. This baseline information will help in further investigations on the possible mechanisms that sustain palm populations at their distribution limits and in stressful environments.
41508677|Plant adaptations to fire often display spatial heterogeneity associated with geographical variation in fire regime. We examined whether populations of the Tecate cypress (Hesperocyparis forbesii Adams) in southern California and northern Baja, Mexico, exhibited spatial heterogeneity in cone serotiny, in other life history traits associated with fireadaptation, and in population demographic structure, to assess a putative difference in fire regime across the USA-Mexico border. Demographic data, tree life history data, and tree ring series were used to compare the demographic structure and life history traits of three populations in southern California with three populations in northern Baja California. In Baja populations, a greater number of tree size classes were present ( = 12,589; P < 0.05), cone serotiny was more facultative (Mann-Whitney U = 58, P < 0.05), and young adult trees had a higher reproductive output (Mann-Whitney U = 2.65, P < 0.05), suggesting that a difference in fire regime between southern California and northern Baja has existed long enough (ca 8000 years) to drive microevolutionary divergence between the two sets of populations, and is not solely the result of 20th century differences in fire management policies across the international border. The transitional area between the two different fire regimes does not appear to coincide with the border itself but may lie in a zone of ecological transition south of Ensenada. The range of phenotypic variation observed within the Tecate cypress metapopulation suggests this species has the capacity to adapt to future environmental changes.
23362493|The fern Dicranopteris linearis Underw. (Old world forkedfern, Gleicheniaceae), the most widely distributed fern throughout tropical to temperature regions, dominates and often forms large pure colonies. Allelopathic chemical interaction of the fern was speculated to play an important role in the dominance. However, potential mechanisms, in particular, the allelopathic substance have not been reported. The objective of this study was the identification of its potential allelopathic substance and the evaluation of the ecological role of the substance. Extracts of D. linearis had an inhibitory effect on Echinochloa colonum and Avena fatua which are found near colonies of D. linearis in natural ecosystems. The extract was purified and a main inhibitory substance was isolated. The chemical structure of the substance was determined by high-resolution MS, and 1 H- and 13 C-NMR spectral data and optical rotation as epicatechin-(2  O  7,4  8)-epicatechin-(4  8)-epicatechin (cinnamtannin B-1). Cinnamtannin B-1 inhibited the shoot and root growth of A. fatua and E. colonum at concentrations greater than 0.20.5 mM, and the concentrations required for 50 % growth inhibition on shoot and root growth of these plants were 0.341.31 mM. Cinnamtannin B-1 was found in soil under the colony, at concentrations of 4.3 and 14.5 mM in soil at the edge of and under the colony, respectively. These concentrations were over the concentration required for 50 % growth inhibition. Therefore, cinnamtannin B-1 may work as an allelopathic agent of D. linearis and may contribute to the establishment of pure colonies of D. linearis.
23362490|Allelopathic effects of invasive plants on native flora may be mitigated by the abiotic and biotic environment into which the allelochemicals are released. Lonicera maackii (Amur honeysuckle), an invasive plant of the eastern deciduous forest, suppresses seed germination in laboratory assays. We investigated how L. maackii leachate interacts with abiotic conditions and with the soil microbial community. First, we tested the effects of leaf extract from L. maackii on germination of the native woodland herb, Blephilia hirsuta, under different light and soil conditions. We found that germination of Blephilia hirsuta was reduced by L. maackii extract, but abiotic conditions did not interact with this effect. We also tested the effects of leaf extract on germination of five native woodland species and L. maackii placed in sterile or live soil. There was an overall suppressive effect of L. maackii extract on itself and the other five native species tested. However, L. maackii extract interacted with live soil in ways that differed with the species being tested and, in some cases, changed over time. Our results indicate that allelopathic potential of L. maackii shows context dependency with respect to soil microorganisms and native species identity but not to light conditions or soil type. Our results imply that restoration of invaded areas may require active reintroduction of species sensitive to allelopathy in live soil. Further, laboratory assays of allelopathy should consider the interaction of allelochemicals with biotic and abiotic conditions to more accurately predict the impacts of allelopathy on plant communities.
20050723|In mires in the Netherlands and Poland redox potentials were measured in situ in 8-fold at 15 cm below the peat surface in 10 m plots. Measurements were repeated 2-4 times in time at ca. 240 locations. Simultaneously, water levels were recorded in piezometers and water samples were analysed for
40926908|Coastal barrens support rare plant species but may be threatened by forest encroachment. We determined whether trees spread into coastal barren habitat from forest patches and assessed plant species composition and soil properties across the forestbarren ecotone. We quantified tree age and height, soil properties, and vascular plant, bryophyte and lichen species composition along transects perpendicular to the edges of tree patches within the forestbarren ecotone in coastal Nova Scotia. Randomization tests assessed whether the vegetation and environmental characteristics were significantly different in the transition zone compared to one or both adjoining ecosystems. We used ordination to examine trends in species composition across the ecotone and the relationship to environmental variables. Tree age and height decreased continuously from the forest towards the edge of the forest patches. There were also trends in vegetation composition and structure from the forest into the open barrens. Many species were most abundant within the transition zone, although not always significantly. Soil properties were relatively uniform across the ecotone. The structure and vegetation of the forest-barren ecotone suggests that forest patches act as nuclei for forest expansion on barrens with a typical successional pathway where coastal barren vegetation is gradually replaced by forest species. This encroachment may pose a threat to rare barrens communities. While landscape factors such as salt spray and wind exposure may determine the general locations where forest can establish, biotic processes of growth and dispersal appear to govern the fine-scale expansion of tree patches.
20050690|Monthly precipitation and monthly mean temperature records from 255 meteorological stations in Central Spain (Spanish Sistema Central) were analyzed by cluster and principal component analyses. Classification separated 14 groups according to altitude, geographical distribution, as well as the combination of rainfall and temperature. The first cluster emerged as significantly higher and colder than the second. Then, two ordinations were carried out: one for the 14 groups extracted from the classification and a second for the total station pool. The second ordination was compared with potential natural vegetation data taken around each station. The first ordination summarized the principal climatic characteristics of the Spanish Sistema Central: its behaviour is that of a typical Mediterranean mountainous territory combining summer aridity and variation of temperature with altitude and the influence of winter winds. The ordination of all stations reflected a thermal, rainfall and summer aridity gradient. Meteorological stations situated at the highest altitude or with highest precipitation records characterized by scrub communities or pine woods and Quercus pyrenaica forests, appeared well-separated along the first two axes. Only the most thermophilous Q. rotundifolia associations could be clearly separated. The fourth axis was useful in clarifying some vegetation overlap of deciduous and sclerophyllous forests, along an east-west summer aridity gradient.
23362498|Mutualisms with mycorrhizal fungi, pollinators, and seed dispersers are critical for plant survival and reproduction. However, mutualism effectiveness is highly sensitive to disturbance by environmental stressors. Allelopathy is often overlooked, yet likely important, as a potential stress on plant mutualism function. Allelochemicals can affect plant mutualisms by either directly interfering with the plant's ability to produce resources and rewards for its mutualistic partners or by directly or indirectly altering the non-plant mutualist's behavior. Here we explore the potential effects of allelochemicals on plant mutualisms. Since allelochemicals can reduce plant growth and carbon acquisition, we suggest that allelopathy could directly diminish: (1) carbon provisioning to mycorrhizal fungi, (2) flower, pollen, and nectar production for pollinators, and (3) fruit attractiveness to seed dispersers. Similarly, allelochemicals that directly affect mycorrhizal fungi functioning can reduce the flow of soil resources to their plant partner. Further, volatile allelochemicals or uptake of allelochemicals from the soil by the plant could alter pollen/nectar or fruit attractiveness and indirectly influence pollinator and seed disperser behavior. Finally, we explore the extent to which plant-produced chemicals could have a direct or indirect positive effect on plant mutualisms. We end using these questions to frame future avenues of research that could help to move studies of allelopathy into the broader ecological context of mutualisms.
20050895|Vertebrate frugivory of fleshy-fruited plants may be very important for the recruitment of sexually derived seedlings if it represents the main mechanism of primary seed-dispersal. Opuntia rastrera produces fleshy fruits rich in water and sugars that are attractive to vertebrate frugivores. However, there is a very low rate of seedling recruitment in natural conditions. One of the causes that can influence this low recruitment is an insufficient seed dispersal due to a low fruit removal even under different resource (fruits) availability. To test this prediction, we studied the production and consumption of fruits in two consecutive years in two vegetation types: nopaleras (dense Opuntia-dominated scrublands) and grasslands with sparse populations of O. rastrera. Plant cover, fruit production and removal, and frugivore identity were recorded within each vegetation type in four randomly selected circular plots (7854 m). Fruit production per area was higher in nopaleras in both years whereas per cladode production did not differ between vegetation types but differed between years in response to variation in precipitation. Fruit consumption by vertebrates was high (100%) and independent of spatial and temporal fruit availability. The intensity of fruit removal was inversely related to resource availability: it was faster in the less dense community (grassland) and in the driest year. Contrary to other studies with similar cacti, fruit removal by small mammals was insignificant whereas main consumers were birds and large mammals. Vertebrate frugivory represents the only mechanism of primary dispersal of seeds as all fruits are removed in about one month. Despite the high quantity of viable seeds (more than one million per ha in nopaleras and a tenth of that in grasslands) that are dispersed by frugivores after the consumption of about 300 kg of fruit per ha in nopaleras and a tenth of that in grasslands, the rare establishment of seedlings (about one seedling per three million of seeds produced) reported in the literature indicates that the interaction between O. rastrera and the disperser guild is indeed very asymmetrical. We speculate that the harsh conditions for cactus establishment found in this ecosystem demand a high investment in disperser rewards (fleshy fruits) to allow a very modest rate of sexually-derived seedling establishment.
20146727| The major environmental gradients underlying plant species distribution were outlined in two climatically and biogeographically contrasting mires: a Swedish bog in the boreo-nemoral zone, and an Italian bog in the south-eastern Alps. Data on mire morphology, surface hydrology, floristic composition, peat chemistry and pore-water chemistry were collected along transects from the mire margin (i.e., the outer portion of the mire in contact with the surrounding mineral soil) towards the mire expanse (i.e., the inner portion of the mire). The delimitation and the extent of the minerotrophic mire margin were related to the steepness of the lateral mire slope which, in turns, controls the direction of surface water flow. The mineral soil water limit was mirrored in geochemical variables such as pH, alkalinity, Ca, Mg, Al, Mn, and SiO concentrations in pore-water, as well as Ca, Al, Fe, N and P contents in surface peat. Depending on regional requirements of plant species, different species were useful as fen limit indicators at the two sites. The main environmental factors affecting distribution of habitat types and plant species in the two mires were the acidity-alkalinity gradient, and the gradient in depth to the water table. The mire margin - mire expanse gradient corresponds to a complex gradient mainly reflected in a differentiation of vegetation structure in relation to the aeration of the peat substrate. 
20050889|Poor regeneration of oak forest has been observed in north America and Eurasia. In the Himalaya it has mainly been explained by anthropogenic pressures. This study analyses the regeneration of two Quercus semecarpifolia Sm. forests (2-3000 m a.s.l.), where one forest has almost nil disturbance and the other has different degrees of canopy disturbance. The relationships between biotic and abiotic environmental variables and the number of Quercus semecarpifolia seedlings and saplings (i.e., recruits &lt10 cm Diameter at Breast Height (DBH)) were analysed by means of Generalized Additive Models (GAM). The two forests were compared with respect to size-class distributions of mature trees (i.e., &gt10 cm DBH), and the number of recruits. The size-class distributions indicate that regeneration is most reliable in the nearly undisturbed forest. Most recruits were found under high canopy cover and high potential radiation. Canopy disturbance has a negative effect on the number of seedlings. Seedlings seem to prefer a pH of around 6, Loss-on-Ignition between 20 and 30%, and total nitrogen between 2 and 3%. In general, there were very few plots with saplings, and there was not a clear relationship between the number of saplings and the soil variables. The size-class diagrams indicate a lack of young trees in the disturbed forest, and it is hypothesized that fire may inhibit recruits reaching the canopy phase.
20146367|In the undisturbed floodplain of the Biebrza river (N.E. Poland) we compared vegetation composition, standing crop and the nutrients in standing crop to site factors such as flood duration and inundation depth during spring floods, summer water levels and concentrations of chemical constituents in water and nutrient release rates from peat. Our analysis shows a number of clear spatial patterns of biotic and abiotic variables in the ca. 1 km wide river marginal wetland. The distribution of vegetation types follows a certain pattern: Glycerietum maximae close to the river, followed by respectively Caricetum gracilis and Caricetum elatae and finally Calamagrostietum strictae at the margin of the river plain. Species richness increases and standing crop decreases from the river towards the margin. The elevation of the ground surface gently rises with increasing distance from the river; flood duration and flooding depths in spring decrease in the same direction. Groundwater tables in summer are less correlated to the elevation gradient but tend to be closer to the ground surface at the valley margin. These differences also lead to a higher amplitude close to the river and a fairly stable water table far away from the river. Concentrations of major ions and ammonium increase towards the river. Nutrient release rates are also higher closer to the river. Absence and presence of species and the variation in species composition of the vegetation was explained best by flood variables; variables from groundwater explained much less of the variance. Variations in standing crop and nutrients in standing crop corresponded better to the rates of nutrient release from the organic soil than to nutrient concentrations in the soil water. We concluded that river hydrology and nutrient release from the soil are clearly related to vegetation composition, species richness and productivity of the vegetation.
20050438|Community structure, syntaxonomy and conservation aspects of Alnus glutinosa-dominated forests in the Baltic States, Central Europe, southern Fennoscandinavia and north-western part of the Commonwealth of Independent States are surveyed. Communities of the black alder wetlands, subjected to cluster analysis (TWINSPAN, GROUPAGE) and correspondence analysis (CANOCO) and synsystematically treated following the Braun-Blanquet approach, belong to Alnion (Carici elongatae-Alnetum Schwick. 33 with two subassociations, Sphagno squarrosi-Alnetum Sol.-Gorn. ex Pried. 96) and Alno-Ulmion (mainly Circaeo-Alnetum Oberd. 53) forests in the Baltic Region. The indicator values sensu Ellenberg, site ecology, floristic assemblages and the phytogeographical features point at a high affinity of these forests in a wide geographical area. Eleven syntaxonomical approaches by classifying central and north-eastern European alderwoods have been analysed. These differ in Alnion classification and distinguish from 2 to more than 10 syntaxa at the level of association. The actual distribution of less disturbed black alder wetlands and areas under these forests in Europe suggests that the SE part of the Baltic Region could be the key area for Alnus glutinosa-dominated wetlands. Thus, it deserves an establishment of an international network of standard protected areas so as to maintain the diverse community samples and elaborate the principles of sustainable management.
40212996|Resource and pollen limitation, as well as pollen/ovule incompatibility, have been proposed as causes to explain fruit abortion. To assess whether abortion in Opuntia microdasys was due to resource and/or pollen limitation and could therefore be reversed fruit set and seed set were studied using controlled pollination experiments on 60 plants that had been randomly assigned a combination of watering and fertilization treatments. On the other hand, to test whether fruit abortion was irreversible, due to pollen/ovule incompatibility, we examined the reproductive biology of the species. This included observations on floral phenology, nectar production, flower visitors, numbers of pollen grains and ovules, and self-pollination experiments. Results showed that O. microdasys is a fully self- incompatible species and its floral biology and the activity of the main pollinator allow constant deposition of incompatible pollen onto stigmas, which may contribute to fruit abortion. Reproductive success was limited by nutrients and pollen, but the fruit set increased only by 58%, compared to 47% of the control, after the experimental addition of pollen, nutrients and water. The magnitude of pollen and resource limitation suggests that similar levels of abortion will be present in good as well as in bad years. Selfing as well as incompatibility between ramets from the same clone and between closely related plants seem plausible candidates to explain the large proportion of fruit abortion, and experimental cross pollination between genotypes identified through molecular markers are necessary to fully understand the considerable abortion rate that remains unexplained after pollen and resource addition. Interestingly, the possible reason why the abortion of energetically expensive fruits has not been eliminated by natural selection is that the aborted fruits are propagules able to root and produce new plants with the same genotype of the mother. Abortion would have a dramatic effect on cross- fertilized genotypes because they result in zero fitness, but it would have a positive effect on the fitness of the maternal genotype because a clonal offspring is produced. Evidently, the exact fitness consequences to the maternal plant will depend on the differences in survival and reproduction of these different offspring types.
20146622|Increased soil erosion on Eocene marls from N Aragn (NE Spain) tends to reduce vegetation cover and plant species number, but little is known about its effect in the neighbouring Miocene clays. In this study, the vegetation of strongly eroded areas on Miocene clays was analysed in terms of erosion intensity and compared with Eocene marls. Relevs were carried out on uniform patches of vegetation affected by different levels of erosion. The degeneration of vegetation cover explained 34% of the variation in species number as opposed to 48% in marls, and a clear pattern of species replacement through the destruction of the vegetation cover was not observed. Approximately 25% of the species decreased significantly and 4% increased, as opposed to 47% and 0% in marls, respectively. Erosion on marls may be more severe (more disturbance) and less stressing for vegetation (more water availability) than on clays. The few species that colonized intermediate degeneration stages and highly eroded sites were more common in non-eroded areas in drier bioclimatic belts. Thus, the degeneration of vegetation by soil erosion favoured the establishment of xeric species. The ecological range of erosion-resistant species was not wider than non-resistant species. Overall, increased soil erosion selected for different plant species in marls than in clays.
40305427|Seeding selected populations with high grazing resistance may foster recovery of plant populations threatened by overgrazing. Resistance to grazing depends on grazing avoidance (escape from grazers) and grazing tolerance (ability to growth after defoliation). Many studies of grazing tolerance defoliate plants at a fixed height instead of removing the same proportion of biomass and therefore confound tolerance with avoidance. For this reason, the information on evolution of tolerance to defoliation at the intraspecific level is remarkably scarce despite the abundance of papers published that evaluate responses to defoliation. The estimation of the cost of tolerance is also troublesome because current methods usually include spurious correlations due to correlation between variables that share common terms. The objectives of this paper were to assess the intraspecific variation in tolerance and in traits associated with avoidance and growth in populations with different sheep grazing histories. We also estimated the percentage of biomass removed when the defoliation treatment was imposed at fixed height in order to separate tolerance and avoidance. Finally, we estimated the cost of tolerance using a new method proposed for spurious correlations. Results of a greenhouse experiment indicated no difference in tolerance among the three compared populations. However, the populations from overgrazed fields had more prostrate growth form, higher specific leaf area, and higher tillering rate (when no defoliated) than populations from exclosures. We confirmed that fixed height defoliation would have removed a higher proportion of shoot biomass from taller than from shorter individual plants, confounding grazing tolerance and avoidance. Regarding the cost of tolerance, we found no differences from a null model of no cost, indicating that the evolution (or future breeding) of more tolerant genotypes would not be constrained by this cost.
40305433|The recovery of native understory plant communities after timber harvest has received a great amount of attention worldwide. However, most of these studies have ignored the potentially significant effects that differences in habitat across forest development may have on the speciesarea relationship, even though sampling efficacy among forest developmental stages may differ markedly as a result of equal sampling within stages. We examined vascular plant community structure in coastal redwood forests of northern California (USA) in forest patches in each of four forest stages that develop with forest age: Initiation, Closure, Mature, and Old-growth. We also used a set of traditional and novel approaches to assess sampling efficacy and guide our sampling design. We initially sampled 75 circular plots (0.04 ha) in stands within each forest stage across a 1,347 km area. The speciesarea relationship suggested we had adequately sampled all stages after the first season of data collection, but non-parametric richness estimators (Incidence-based Coverage Estimator or ICE) and MichaelisMenten means (MMMeans) rarefaction curves, indicated inadequate sampling of the older stages. Thus, we added four more samples within the Old-growth forest stage, establishing a more equitable sample of all stages. Our full data set demonstrated significant differences between plant communities in previously harvested forests ('managed' = Initiation, Closure, and Mature) and 'unmanaged' forests (Old-growth). Though several understory species were present in all stages, a suite of Old-growth indicator and restricted species suggest that recovery of some species may take long periods in managed forests. Interestingly, a separate suite of common understory species were lacking in Old-growth, and species richness in this stage was lower than in the mature managed forests. We discuss how this departure from the prediction of peak richness in Old-growth may relate to fire suppression in Old-growth forests. Lastly, analysis of our initial, smaller sampling of plots suggested that Old-growth plots were the least species rich. However, additional sampling of the Old-growth stage demonstrated that Old-growth plots were as rich as Closure plots. This has important implications for all studies concerned with measuring recovery after forest disturbances; stage-dependent habitat-mediated differences that affect sampling efficacy may not be captured by traditional sampling methods.
20051133|We examine the degree to which landscape-scale spatial patterns of shrub-species abundance in California chaparral reflect topographically mediated environmental conditions, and evaluate whether these patterns correspond to known ecophysiological plant processes. Regression tree models are developed to predict spatial patterns in the abundance of 12 chaparral shrub and tree species in three watersheds of the Santa Ynez Mountains, California. The species response models are driven by five variables: average annual soil moisture, seasonal variability in soil moisture, average annual photosynthetically active radiation, maximum air temperature over the dry season (May-October), and substrate rockiness. The energy and moisture variables are derived by integrating high resolution (10 m) digital terrain data and daily climate observations with a process-based hydro-ecological model (RHESSys). Field-sampled data on species abundance are spatially integrated with the distributed environmental variables for developing and evaluating the species response models. The species considered are differentially distributed along topographically-mediated environmental gradients in ways that are consistent with known ecophysiological processes. Spatial patterns in shrub abundance are most strongly associated with annual soil moisture and solar radiation. Substrate rockiness is also closely associated with the establishment of certain species, such as Adenostoma fasciculatum and Arctostaphylos glauca. In general, species that depend on fire for seedling recruitment (e.g., Ceanothous megacarpus) occur at high abundance in xeric environments, whereas species that do not depend on fire (e.g., Heteromeles arbutifolia) occur at higher abundance in mesic environments. Model performance varies between species and is related to life history strategies for regeneration. The scale of our analysis may be less effective at capturing the processes that underlie the establishment of species that do not depend on fire for recruitment. Analysis of predication errors in relation to environmental conditions and the abundance of potentially competing species suggest factors not explicitly considered in the species response models.
23500351|The coastal heathlands of North-western Europe are treeless anthropogenic landscape of high conservation value, now threatened by encroachment by both native (Pinus sylvestris L.) and non-native (Picea sitchensis (Bong) Carr.) conifers. This study wants to gain insight into the different external drivers which interact with the natural successional processes to determine the future development of the heathland landscape. We tested how seedling emergence and establishment is related to competitive effects from the standing vegetation. Heathlands are nutrient-stressed habitats and we tested the seedling emergence and establishment along a nutrient gradient using mean Ellenberg values. In addition we tested if phytotoxic substances are affecting the seedling emergence and establishment related to different successional stages. Study species differed in seed size and we expected different colonization rates and competitive effects from the heathland vegetation. A factorial experiment was carried out in three different successional stages to isolate the effects of competition versus phytotoxins on seedling emergence and establishment by combining vegetation cutting and charcoal addition treatments. Both conifers were able to invade all successional stages, but invasibility decreased during succession. This was largely attributable to competitive effects from the standing vegetation, although phytotoxic effects were also detected, especially in late-successional stages. Seedling emergence and establishment was higher in the larger-seeded P. sylvestris than in P. sitchensis. These results present a management challenge as fire is an important component of the traditional management of the coastal heathlands, while at the same time increasing invasibility. Managers at sites susceptible to invasion should ensure that resources for tree seedling control are available before fire or other management-related disturbances are applied.
23500332|A fundamental aspect of the JanzenConnell Hypothesis (JCH) is that distance- and density-dependent mortality reduce the local dominance of species and cause regular rather than random or aggregated spatial patterns. Despite this explicit linkage between process and pattern, very few studies have explored how JCH processes translate into the spatial distributions of adult populations. In field experiments, we assessed germination, mortality and growth of conspecific and heterospecific seedlings beneath and away from Esenbeckia leiocarpa, a highly aggregated tropical tree species. We also investigated the effects of vertebrates using exclosures in the field, and the effects of pathogens in a soil sterilization shadehouse experiment. Germination of conspecifics underneath Esenbeckia was reduced by 64 % and mortality increased 28123 % when compared to seedlings growing under other tree species; 99100 % of Esenbeckia seedlings died under conspecifics. Heterospecifics were much less affected by Esenbeckia canopies. However, we found no evidence that either vertebrate herbivores or soil pathogens affected seed germination and seedling performance. Although many tropical tree species are aggregated, our results are the first to demonstrate strong negative distance-dependence for an aggregated species and one of the few to explore germination in the context of the JCH and show differences between conspecifics and heterospecifics, thus suggesting a broader role for JanzenConnell processes as determinants of the distribution and abundance of tree species in tropical forests.
40606949|We studied the floristic composition and stand structure of lowland forests of the Maya Biosphere Reserve (MBR) of El Petn, Guatemala. Sampling was performed over a gradient of human influence, including a newly established returnee community (migrant), the cooperative Unin Maya Itz, as well as an adjacent protected area within the core area of the MBR. Five 1-ha plots, each divided into 100 contiguous 10  10 m subplots, were used to record presence of all tree and vine species. The study area is a low-diversity rainforest with a canopy layer dominated by species of Fabaceae, a shrub layer dominated by Rubiaceae, and vines dominated by Bignoniaceae. Vines were conspicuous both in number and in diversity. Variation in both tree life-form composition and canopy abundance pattern apparently reflect variation in intensity of forestry among the plots. The similarities between the plots in the cooperative (a logging plot and a settlement plot) with regard to species area curves, and mean number of tree and understory species per subplot, may indicate effects of disturbance (in general) on vegetation structure. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to investigate gradients in species composition among the five plots (125 subplots) and to generate hypotheses about vegetation-environment relationships. The study area appears as a mosaic of site-specific forest types or associations determined by a particular species or groups of co-dominant species. The main environmental characteristics of the area determining species composition and structure are related to the drainage of soils and human disturbance.
20051258|Equilibrium theory predicts that after disturbance, ecosystems eventually regain the structural and functional properties characteristic of their predisturbance condition. This study tested this idea by examining the effects of cattle grazing and exclusion on the long-term structural characteristics of sedge meadows in southern Wisconsin. To compare structural changes in mean percentage cover and height, repeated measures analysis was conducted on two sedge meadows over a twenty year period from 1977 to 1997. One sedge meadow was recovering from cattle grazing (cattle excluded in 1973) and the other was a reference area (nearly undisturbed). Both of these study sites changed structurally from 1977 to 1997, supporting non-equilibrium theory. Additional observations were made in a heavily and lightly grazed sedge meadow that were surveyed in 1977. As based on the positions of subunits in an ordination graph produced using Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS), the recovery sedge meadow became less structurally similar to the grazed and more similar to the reference site over the 20 year study. However, from the perspective of mean maximum height in another NMS analysis, the recovery sedge meadow became less similar to the reference site over time likely because by 1997, a shrub carr of Cornus sericea had developed in the recovery sedge meadow that had been dominated by graminoids and forbs in 1977 (mean maximum height: 1977 vs. 1997; 0 vs. 47 cm). Seedlings of Cornus sericea were invading the grazed sedge meadows and in the recovery sedge meadow (cattle excluded 4 years earlier) in 1977. A shrub carr did not develop in the reference sedge meadow. Changes in the reference site were relatively minor over this time interval; certain species either increased or decreased in dominance, e.g., Carex stricta increased in cover (1977 vs. 1997, 20 and 28 mean percentage (%) cover, respectively). A few short-term species of the recovery sedge meadow followed the tenets of equilibrium theory. These became less common or disappeared 4-9 years after cattle exclusion including Aster lanceolatus, Calamagrostis canadensis, Poa compressa, Solidago altissima and Verbena hastata. Some of these species were eaten and likely spread by the cattle. This study suggests that the progression of sedge meadow to shrub carr may not be an inevitable outcome of succession but instead can be a consequence of past cattle grazing history. Also, because the recovery and the reference sedge both changed structurally over time, the tenets of non-equilibrium theory were supported by this study.
40305538|Browsing by ungulates has become a hotly debated issue in many European mountain forests in the past century. Acer pseudoplatanus L. and Fraxinus excelsior L. are broadleaved tree species that are preferentially browsed by roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) in central Europe. We analyzed growth data from shaded saplings of both tree species to quantify the extent to which height growth after game browsing is reduced in subsequent, unbrowsed years in forest stands. Sixty saplings of F. excelsior and A. pseudoplatanus from forest stands at Albisriederberg (Switzerland) were available to us that had been dissected into pieces that then were split in the middle for counting tree rings and assessing ungulate damage. We fitted the von Bertalanffy growth equation to these height growth data and included a reduction factor for winter browsing. Both tree species showed significantly reduced height growth in unbrowsed years after one to several browsing events in winter, and this effect increased with the number of browsing events. Saplings with a high growth rate showed a higher growth reduction. After winter browsing, height growth of A. pseudoplatanus saplings was less affected in unbrowsed years than that of F. excelsior saplings. We conclude that browsed saplings of these species in forest stands are not able to compensate browsing-induced height loss, but that height differences between browsed and unbrowsed saplings probably increase over time. A comparison between our analysis and the parameters estimated using equations published by Eiberle for predicting age at 130 cm height suggests that our parameter values are rather conservative estimates of the growth reduction effect after winter browsing. Neither F. excelsior nor A. pseudoplatanus show a distinct pattern in browsing-induced growth reduction with respect to soil moisture, nutrient level, and altitude. We thus conclude that our results are likely to be valid for a wide range of forested sites.
20050476|Morphological and temporal aspects of the growth of leaves of Thelypteris angustifolia (Willdenow) Proctor are under study along a 400-m section of the Sonadora River at the El Verde Field Station in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico. Emergence, expansion and growth of leaves of 149 sporophytes have been observed approximately mid-month every January, May and September since September 1991. Results of the first four years of this long-term study of T. angustifolia are reported here. Although they are land plants, sporophytes of T. angustifolia are rheophytic, subject to intermittent flooding and submerged approximately 7% of the time. The pinnate leaves of T. angustifolia exhibit sterile-fertile leaf dimorphy. Only 7.6% of the leaves in the sample were fertile. The petiole of a fertile leaf was 41% longer than that of a sterile leaf while leaf blades were the same length. Leaves expanded at a mean rate of 1.7 cm per day, maturing in 29.7 days. Mean leaf life span was 10.8 months with a maximum of 26 months. Sterile leaf longevity (11.0 months) was longer than that of the fertile leaf (9.6 months). Leaves were produced at a mean rate of 4.7 leaves per plant per year. Leaf damage occurred on 38% of the leaves observed. Net leaf counts for individual sporophytes ranged from one to eight with a mean of 3.0 leaves per plant. Fertile plants had higher mean leaf counts (4.1) than plants without fertile leaves (2.8). Leaf production, although possibly triggered by increasing daylength, also paralleled seasonal increases in rainfall during the wetter mid-May/September months. Increased leaf mortality occurred during the drier mid-January/May period.
40305666|Knapweeds {Centaurea spp.) are damaging invaders of grasslands and other North American rangelands. A field study was conducted to determine conditions that promote diffuse knapweed (C. diffusa) emergence and establishment in a native Colorado grassland (North America). Knapweed was planted in native grassland under treatments with different opening sizes, levels of competition, knapweed seed burial and season of seeding. There was no effect of opening size where competing natives were alive, but knapweed emergence in 5-and 15-cm openings was higher than 0-cm openings where natives were killed. Reducing competition reduced fall diffuse knapweed emergence, but did not affect spring emergence. Seed burial increased knapweed emergence, but the effect varied by season. Although diffuse knapweed emergence reached 35%, only four plants survived from 3,600 seeds. This native grassland did not prevent knapweed emergence or establishment, but both were so low that rapid knapweed invasion is unlikely.
41686752|Forest rodents play an essential role as seed dispersal vectors through their caching behaviors. Using seeds of Quercus aliena, Q. glandulifera, and Cyclobalanopsis engleriana (Fagaceae), which are dominant, but poorly studied species, in the Qinling Mountains, Central China, we investigated seed prdation and dispersal by forest rodents in 2010 and 2011. There were significant differences in rodent seed-eating and caching strategies among the three tree species. Seeds of Q. aliena and engleriana had hard coats, high nutrition contents (e.g., protein, fat, and starch), and long germination schedules (C. engleriana only). They were less frequently eaten in situ, but more likely to be eaten after removal or cached. Seeds of Q. glandulifera had soft coats and low nutrition contents and were more often eaten in situ and less likely to be eaten after removal or cached. Our findings indicated that forest rodents were primarily responsible for seed predation and dispersal of these three tree species in the Qinling Mountains, and seed traits, especially coat hardness, nutrition content, and germination schedule, were important factors influencing rodent eating and caching behaviors. In addition, seed dispersal process of each tree species differed significantly between the 2 years, reflecting the effect of mast seeding on the eating and caching strategies of forest rodents.
20050711|Fagus engleriana Seem. occurs in the mountains of southern China. It has a multi-stemmed form at several sites, but it is single-stemmed at other sites. It is not known whether this tree naturally develops the multi-stemmed form at all sites of its range. This paper describes the occurrences of multi-stemmed F. engleriana at eight sites that are spread over its range. The clonal structure and stem growth patterns for selected F. engleriana individuals are also given. Our results suggest that F. engleriana is able to develop a multi-stemmed form at all sites of its range. The beech clones examined usually had closed centres, suggesting that they were younger than the Japanese Fagus japonica clones that have open centres. There were usually dominant and suppressed stems within the F. engleriana clones. Often, the dominant and some suppressed stems within a clone were of similar-age and had strong initial stem-radial growth rates. These similar-aged stems probably emerged in a large opening. The suppressed stems usually had radial growth rates that were initially similar to, but later much less than that of the dominant ones. At one site that was intensively studied, decrease of stem growth with increase of stem size was found in the multi-stemmed beech but not in single-stemmed Fagus hayatae Palibin ex Hayata. Both species had comparable initial radial growth rates. At this latter site there were two large peaks in the ages of all F. engleriana stems sampled, suggesting two major disturbances occurred in the past. F. engleriana occurs mainly in the northern part of Chinese Fagus range, where beech seed production is rather low, and in forests where dense bamboo undergrowth restricts establishment and survival of seedlings. Vigorous sprouting is probably beneficial to F. engleriana enabling it to persist in these habitats.
41508803|The ecological drivers of herbaceous layer composition and diversity in deciduous forests of eastern North America are imperfectly understood. We analyzed the herbaceous layer, across the growing season, in a central Appalachian old-growth forest to examine dynamics, diversity, and relationships to resource gradients. We found clear variation in herb species composition over the growing season. We identified intermingled resource gradients, including soil nutrients, light availability, and topography, that were related to herbaceous composition. We found that herb layer diversity was different among previously identified tree communities, but was not variable over the growing season. We identified a unimodal relationship between diversity and productivity in the herb flora that held throughout the growing season despite changing composition and levels of productivity. Diversity and distributions in the herbaceous community of our study site are linked to a complex of resource gradients.
20051328|The intriguing mathematical properties of leaf phyllotaxis still attract scientific attention after centuries of research. Phyllotaxis, and in particular the divergence angle between successive leaves, have been frequently interpreted in terms of maximization of light capture, although certain model simulations of light capture by vertical shoots revealed minor effects of phyllotaxis in comparison with the effect of other morphological features of the plant. However, these simulations assumed a number of simplifications, did not take into account diffuse light, and were not based on real plants with their natural range of morphological variation. This study was aimed at filling these gaps by examining the influence on light harvesting of shoot architecture and divergence angle in four species with spiral phyllotaxis (Quercus ilex, Arbutus unedo, Heteromeles arbutifolia and Daphne gnidium) with a realistic 3-D model (Y-plant). A wide range of divergence angles (from 100 to 154) was observed within each species, with 144 being the most frequent one. These different divergence angles rendered very different vertical projections of the shoot due to contrasting patterns of leaf overlap as seen from above, but they rendered indistinguishable light interception efficiencies (Ea). Setting the leaves with an opposite-decussate phyllotaxis led, however, to a 40-50% decrease of Ea. The interplay of internode length, leaf size and shape, and leaf elevation angle led to significant species differences in Ea. Thus, only particular phyllotaxis (e.g., decussate) might be functionally inefficient under certain combinations of the various morphological variables that influence light capture of a shoot.
20051134|This study quantified relationships between forest composition and flooding gradients on the Roanoke River floodplain, North Carolina. Because flooding is highly variable in time and space, the research was designed to determine the specific hydrological parameters that control woody species abundance on the landscape scale. I specifically tested the importance of spring vs. yearly flood duration, as well as flood duration during hydrologically wet vs. dry years. Field vegetation samples of woody species composition were integrated with spatial data from a Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) classification and a flood simulation model derived in part from synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery. Flood simulations were output and summarized for the periods 1912-1950 (before dams were constructed on the river) and 1965-1996 (after all of the dams were completed). Tenth percentile (dry), median, and 90th percentile (wet) hydroperiod (flood duration) regimes were generated for the spring and year, both pre- and post-dam. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to ordinate the plot data, and correlation/regression between ordination axis scores and the flood variables were used to explore the relationships between flooding and species composition. Nineteenth percentile hydroperiod (i.e., wet conditions) correlated most strongly with DCA axis 1 (r &gt 0.9), indicating that inundation during extremely wet years strongly controls species composition on the floodplain. The results were used to quantitatively determine the niche width for both species and mapped vegetation classes in terms of number of days flooded annually and during the spring growth period. The results suggest that spring hydroperiod is an important mechanism that may drive competitive sorting along the flooding gradient, especially during the early years of succession (i.e., pre-dam, which represents the period during which most of the forests sampled were established), and that annual hydroperiod affects the relative dominance of species as the forests mature.
20051336|We investigated the influence of the exotic nitrogen-fixing black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia) on nitrogen cycling in a pitch pine (Pinus rigida) -- scrub oak (Quercus ilicifolia, Q. prinoides) ecosystem. Within paired pine-oak and adjacent black locust stands that were the result of a 20-35 year-old invasion, we evaluated soil nutrient contents, soil nitrogen transformation rates, and annual litterfall biomass and nitrogen concentrations. In the A horizon, black locust soils had 1.3-3.2 times greater nitrogen concentration relative to soils within pine-oak stands. Black locust soils also had elevated levels of P and Ca, net nitrification rates and total net N-mineralization rates. Net nitrification rates were 25-120 times greater in black locust than in pine-oak stands. Elevated net N-mineralization rates in black locust stands were associated with an abundance of high nitrogen, low lignin leaf litter, with 86 kg N
20050618|The results of application of a global bioclimatic classification to Chile are presented. A total of 140 weather stations are assigned to bioclimatic belts on the basis of temperature and rainfall regime. In view of these assignements and of phytosociological data, a zonation of Chile into four major bioclimatic regions (Tropical, Mediterranean, Temperate and Boreal) is proposed. For the Temperate region, we discuss the distribution of the various climax forest communities with respect to bioclimatic belt. It is suggested that increased knowledge of the phytosociology of Chile will improve understanding of the climate of the different parts of the country.
20051271|The common ivy (Hedera helix L.) remains juvenile at its northern, eastern and altitudinal distribution limits although juvenile parts are largely killed by severe frost spells. In order to explain this discrepancy we investigated the seasonal course of frost resistance in various organs of juvenile and adult parts of the same H. helix plants. Maximum frost resistance of leaves (
40305758|Aechmea bracteata is a common epiphytic bromeliad found in symbiosis with many other species throughout tropical forests of Mexico and south through Panama. Given its importance and distribution in these forests, we asked how may A. bracteata be restored to areas where they have thrived in the past? We first investigated seed viability and response of seed germination to temperature, humidity, vapour pressure deficit (VPD), and light, under controlled growth chamber conditions. We recorded these environmental conditions within a seasonal tropical forest where this species is common and then conducted seed germination trials in various serai stages. In growth chambers, with constant water supply, highest germination percentages were at the highest temperature and lowest VPD levels. In the field, germination was less than 1%. Because of high temperatures and VPD within early serai stages, efforts to re-introduce A. bracteata into forests < 20 years old are not likely to be successful.
40212890|The use of hedgerows as corridors for forest vascular species has been widely studied, but only in humid oceanic and continental climates; no replicated trials have ever been performed on corridor function. Given these premises, a study was done on the eastern Po Plain, in a transition area between the Temperate ( Eurosiberian) and Mediterranean climatic zones, adopting the same sample shape and dimensions as a North-American study [Corbit et al. (1999) J Ecol 87: 220-232]. The following research questions were posed: (1) how common are forest species in hedgerows? (2) do origin, isolation, distance from source, width and adjacent land-use factors correlate with the frequency of forest species? (3) are hedgerows corridors for forest species? To address these, three functional types of hedgerows, identified by comparing old aerial-photos, were sampled: remnant attached (n = 12) and remnant isolated (n = 6) with respect to the nearest woodland and regenerated attached (n = 4). If wooded patches were a source for hedgerows, then regenerated hedgerows should be more similar to an adjacent woodland than an isolated remnant. A 900 m circular plot in woodlands and an adjacent 90-m transect along hedgerows were sampled for the presence and cover of all plant species, then 39 woodland taxa were selected. Significant differences between the three hedgerow types emerged in forest species richness, but not in cover. The forest species composition in both remnant and regenerated attached hedgerows showed a strong affinity with the adjacent stand, implying a dispersal process from woodland (source) to regenerated hedgerows (sink). A distance effect on forest species distribution clearly linked to a corridor function was found only in regenerated hedgerows, while in the remnant attached ones, even with a composition similar to that of the nearest woodland source, other additional factors cannot be ignored to explain the fine scale distribution of forest species. The cover of the most common ant-dispersed species showed a similar distance effect while vertebrate- dispersed ones did not show any significant trend with distance from woodlands. Habitat suitability for forest species was affected by width, especially in hedges wider than 12 m, but not by adjacent land use.
40607002|In a declining sugar maple (SM) stand, we tested the hypothesis that an increasing relative abundance of American beech (AB) and yellow birch (YB) would improve litter quality by providing a higher proportion of litterfall richer in base cations and lower in acidity. From 1989 to 2006, SM leaf fall diminished from 59% (1,718 kg ha year) to 36% (915 kg ha year) of the total leaf fall biomass. Overall, the increase in AB and YB litterfall compensated for the SM decrease, resulting in constant annual leaf litterfall fluxes (2,803 kg ha year) over the period studied. However, because the leaf litter for AB and YB had Ca and Mg concentrations 2-3 times higher than did SM, Ca and Mg concentrations and fluxes in leaf litterfall significantly increased between 1989 and 2006. Leaf litterfall of AB and YB also has a higher base/acid ratio than SM. Consequently, changes in forest composition following SM decline led to a clear improvement in litterfall quality in terms of base cations content and fluxes and acid-base properties.
20051236|In a first step to investigate the potential source-sink function of isolated mountains (i.e. inselbergs) in an arid landscape, affinities of inselberg floras with their surrounding were investigated in four sets of inselbergs in Namibia's Nama Karoo. The questions focussed on (a) the potential of inselbergs to serve as sources for degraded rangelands, and (b) the role of species attributes in the relationship between inselberg and matrix. The study showed that inselbergs can serve as source for degraded rangeland, but at regional and landscape level employed in this analysis, the species attributes growth form and seed dispersal did not provide any conclusive trends.
40305611|Distribution of plants and the expression of traits associated with environmental variation can be affected by both average conditions and the variance in conditions including extreme climatic events. We expect that these same factors should affect the distribution of plants in hybrid zones between ecologically distinct species where the hybrids should occupy ecotones or intermediate habitats. We evaluated water availability and leaf morphological differences among parental and hybrid populations of herbaceous perennial plants in the Piriqueta caroliniana complex along environmental gradients in Southeastern North America. We focus on two taxa in this group; the viridis morphotype, which occurs in southern Florida, and the caroliniana morphotype, which is distributed from northern Florida to southern Georgia. Advancedgeneration hybrid derivatives of these morphotypes occupy a broad geographic region that extends across much of central Florida. Overall, we found that hybrid populations occurred in significantly drier locations, indicating that their habitat requirements are transgressive (i. e., exceeding parental values) rather than intermediate to the parental morphotypes. Water availability differed between the two sampling years, and plants displayed morphological changes in response to these changes in moisture. During the drier year, leaves were narrower and more hirsute, corroborating experimental results that these leaf traits are plastic, and confirming that plasticity occurs in natural habitats. Hybrids exhibited intermediate leaf traits (shape and size) across both years, and displayed transgressive (hair density) leaf traits during the drier year. The apparent canalization of the hybrids' leaf morphological traits may contribute to their tolerance of variable environmental conditions and may partially explain why they have displaced the caroliniana morphotype in central Florida.
40606950|Trajectories of plant primary succession are commonly inferred from temporal changes in non-spatially explicit metrics that characterise the whole sampling area with a single statistic (e.g. community diversity). However, the derivation of these metrics is affected by the presence of spatial structure (patchiness) in vegetation. The emergence of spatial patchiness during succession is therefore likely to have an impact on attempts to infer the rate and direction of vegetation development. This study examines the impact of patchiness on inferred developmental trajectories by comparing a nonspatial analysis of long-term primary succession with a spatially explicit analysis of the same data. The data used in the analysis were collected from an 850-year-old chronosequence of 7 lava flows in southern Iceland. The non-spatial analysis captured broad developmental trends, including an overall increase in community diversity with time, and a split between early pioneer communities (sites <150-year-old) dominated by cryptogams and later assemblages (sites older than 150 years) where vascular plants were more important. However, the non-spatial analysis missed key community processes apparent in the spatially explicit analysis, including divergence in vegetation development related to metre-scale topographic differences. The results of this study emphasise the need for spatially explicit, multi-scale studies of vegetation development, both in the inference of past vegetation dynamics, and in modelling the response of spatially patchy vegetation to future environmental change.
41508821|Using long-term (22 years) measurements from a young and an old-growth subtropical forest in southern China, we found that both forests accumulated carbon from 1982 to 2004, with the mean carbon accumulation rate at 227  59 g C m year for young forest and 115  89 g C  year for the old-growth forest. Allocation of the accumulated carbon was quite different between these two forests: the young forest accumulated a significant amount of carbon in plant live biomass, whereas the old-growth forest accumulated a significant amount of carbon in the soil. From 1982 to 2004, net primary productivity (NPP) increased for the young forest, and did not change significantly for the old-growth forest. The increase in NPP of the young forest resulted from recruitment of some dominant tree species characteristic of the subtropical mature forest in the region and an increase in tree density; decline of NPP of the oldgrowth forest was caused by increased mortality of the dominant trees.
23267394|Shrub resource islands are characterized by resources accumulated shrubby areas surrounded by relative barren soils. This research aims to determine resource-use efficiency of native trees species planted on shrub resource islands, and to determine how the planted trees may influence the resource islands in degraded shrublands in South China. Shrub (Rhodomyrtus tomentosa) resource islands were left unplanted or were planted with 0.5-year-old indigenous tree species Schima superba, Castanopsis fissa, and Michelia macclurei. The results indicate that, after 2.5 years, the tree seedlings did not modify the physical traits (light, air temperature, and soil water) but tended to increase soil nutrients (soil organic carbon and soil nitrogen) and soil microbial biomass of the resource islands. Relative to S. superba and M. macclurei, C. fissa had greater effects on soil nutrients and microbial biomass but showed lower plant growth, survival, and resource-use efficiencies (for water, light, energy, and nitrogen). These results rejected our initial assumption that shrub resource islands would effectively promote the growth and resource utility of all the indigenous tree species and shorten the reforestation course in subtropical degraded shrubland. C. fissa performed poorly when growing on shrub resource islands, but its role in soil nutrient accumulation might have long-term impacts on the restoration of degraded shrubland. In contrast, S. superba and M. macclurei could make better use of the shrub resource islands therefore accelerating the construction of native plantations.
23362486|There has been a renewed interest in allelopathy as a plantplant interaction as more plant ecologists have become involved in studying biological invasions. This resurgence highlights a major deficiency in our understanding of allelopathythe lack of a well-developed ecological context for the interaction. In contrast to allelopathy, the plantplant interaction of competition has a strong theoretical foundation as well as a large body of supporting empirical studies. We suggest that the plant-herbivore defense literature provides a mature and well-developed framework from which a broader ecological context for allelopathy can be developed. Here, we discuss three broad classes of questions, drawn from the herbivore defense literature, which may help to develop an appropriate ecological context for allelopathy. These questions focus on (1) variation in allelopathic expression within species, (2) community level variation in allelopathy across species, and (3) variation in the impacts of allelopathy on associated species. Addressing such broad population and community level themes in a variety of systems will be necessary to fully develop an ecological context for allelopathy and provide a theoretical basis for understanding its role in plant communities.
20146886| The inverse relationship between numbers of stomata (stomatal frequency) on tree leaves and ambient CO concentration is increasingly applied for reconstructing past atmospheric CO levels. The abundance of leaf remains of Quercus robur in Holocene peat and lake deposits in Europe makes this species potentially suitable for high-resolution stomatal frequency analysis. In order to quantify the CO responsiveness of the species, the behavior of the stomatal index for Q. robur during the current anthropogenic CO increase is determined on the basis of buried, herbarium and modern leaf material from the Netherlands. The stomatal index (SI), expressing the ratio of the number of stomata in a given area divided by the total number of stomata and other epidermal cells in that same area, is used in order to minimize influences on stomatal frequency of environmental conditions other than CO. The sigmoid SI response pattern recorded for Q. robur resembles that of the closely related species Q. petraea, although there is a difference in the timing of the response limitation of the two species to increasing atmospheric CO. For calibration purposes only the linear phase of the sigmoidal response curve is taken into consideration in the presented CO response model, which allows confident combination of Q. robur and Q. petraea over the interval from 290 to 325 ppmv CO. The model is conservative in reconstructing past CO mixing ratios outside the range of monitored response. As a result of the observed SI response limit, the model predicts CO levels below 325 ppmv with a mean error of 10.2 ppmv, whereas higher CO levels are underestimated. 
41508783|The study aims at evaluating how landuse modifies the link between the observed distribution of species and the climatic variability and at detecting species involved in that modification. The area studied covers the phytogeographical transition between the South-Sudanian sector and the North-Sudanian sector in western Burkina Faso. It lies along an aridity gradient, of which the aridity index (UNESCO-MAB) ranges from 0.363 to 0.533. The data studied were derived from observations performed on 192 woody species in 603 vegetation survey plots inside and outside protected areas. The species turn-over ( diversity) and the mutual information were assessed along the aridity gradient inside protected areas on one hand and outside protected areas on the other. Our study shows that the statistical links between the geographical distributions of species and the aridity gradient differ according to whether the observations are performed inside or outside the protected areas. Anthropogenic disturbances, mainly agricultural in the region of study, result in a decrease in the  diversity and in the average mutual information between the distribution of all the woody species and the climatic gradient. Moreover, the variation in mutual information differs according to the species: it diversely decreases with agricultural land-use for most of them, but increases for some. Thus, land-use leads to species-specific changes in the realised climatic niches.
20050763|Concern regarding the conservation status of small, isolated populations of the arctic-alpine plant species Lloydia serotina prompted research to establish the status and performance of this species in Wales, in comparison with large populations in its more typical alpine habitat. Relationships between reproductive strategies and genetic variation were investigated in a number of populations, representing a wide habitat, geographic and population size range. In all populations, vegetative reproduction predominates over sexual reproduction, but seed produced is viable and germinates readily under controlled conditions. Smaller, peripheral populations produced fewer flowers and seeds than the larger ones, but all populations studied supported significant percentages (&gt30%) of male plants, due to either the occurrence of androdioecy in this species or to a resource limited breeding system. Analysis of allozyme variation in sixteen populations from North America, the European Alps and Wales showed lower levels of genetic variation in smaller populations which averaged 1.1-1.2 alleles per locus and 10-20% of loci polymorphic, whereas larger populations averaged 1.4 alleles per locus and 30-40% polymorphic loci. This applied especially to the most northerly and southerly populations in North America, suggesting the occurrence of genetic drift in these small, peripheral populations. F-statistics suggest relatively high levels of differentiation among smaller populations, even among those closely related geographically, but genetic variation has been retained in all but one population, possibly due to infrequent sexual reproduction by long lived clones. RAPD analysis of four small populations in Wales provided further evidence of clonal growth and possible inbreeding dominating a mixed mating reproductive system with consequent genetic structuring in these populations.
40305697|Soil nutrients are heterogeneously distributed in natural systems. While many species respond to this heterogeneity through root system plasticity, little is known about how the magnitude of these responses may vary between native and invasive species. We quantified root morphological and physiological plasticity of co-occurring native and invasive Great Basin species in response to soil nitrogen heterogeneity and determined if trade-offs exist between these foraging responses and species relative growth rate or root system biomass. The nine study species included three perennial bunchgrasses, three perennial forbs, and three invasive perennial forbs. The plants were grown in large pots outdoors. Once a week for 4 weeks equal amounts of NH NO were distributed in the soil either evenly through the soil profile, in four patches, or in two patches. All species acquired more N in patches compared to when N was applied evenly through the soil profile. None of the species increased root length density in enriched patches compared to control patches but all species increased root N uptake rate in enriched patches. There was a positive relationship between N uptake rate, relative growth rate, and root system biomass. Path analysis indicated that these positive interrelationships among traits could provide one explanation of how invasive forbs were able to capture 2 and 15-fold more N from enriched patches compared to the native grasses and forbs, respectively. Results from this pot study suggest that plant traits related to nutrient capture in heterogeneous soil environments may be positively correlated which could potentially promote size-asymmetric competition belowground and facilitate the spread of invasive species. However, field experiments with plants in different neighbor environments ultimately are needed to determine if these positive relationships among traits influence competitive ability and invader success.
20146566|The life history of Spanish pines and their relation to fire as the main disturbance factor in their ecosystems was analysed. The primary ecological attributes studied were the canopy seed bank (onset of cone production, percentage and persistence of serotinous cones), seed and cone morphology, sprouting and bark thickness. Four ecological groups were separated using multivariate cluster analysis and their life-history characteristics are discussed. Serotiny and early flowering in Pinus halepensis and P. pinaster reflect their evader strategy in relation to fire as this character is advantageous to survive frequent crown fires and to attain successful post-fire recruitment. Late flowering and absence of serotinuous cones in P. nigra, P. sylvestris and P. uncinata indicate that their natural forest did not evolve under frequent crown fires. P. canariensis and P. pinea appeared in two single groups because of their sprouting capability and their seed size respectively. Intraspecific variation in P. pinaster was also analysed using the same criteria and high variability was found in its life history traits. A group of P. pinaster populations showed high levels of serotiny and thin bark as a possible adaptation to frequent stand-replacing crown fires. In contrast, a group of non- or weakly-serotinous populations seems to have evolved under a low-intensity fire regime where the best fitness corresponds to thick-barked individuals capable of surviving ground fires. Intermediate strategies were also evident in this species and were discussed in relation to the effect of different fire regimes caused by the understorey vegetation.
20050850|The hypothesis that treelets/shrubs are more sensitive than trees to drought and low soil fertility was tested by analysing species densities (species per unit area) in 155 tropical forest plots (0.0625 ha) in Ghana, West Africa. Species densities of both life forms decreased with increasing dryness and with increasing soil fertility, which were correlated. Goodness of fit tests detected species preferences for four combinations of rainfall (dry: &lt1500 mm
40305566|We investigated the relationship between vegetation changes and site condition in Kushiro Mire, northeastern Japan, where massive depositions of sediment from the watershed have been observed over the last several decades. These changes also included the changing area of floodplain forest. To determine the factors that induced the changing floodplain forest area and the effect of sediment accumulation on floodplain vegetation, we examined site conditions where vegetation had recently changed. We classified the pattern of vegetation change as new forest (formerly meadow), new meadow (formerly forest), stable forest (forest since 1967), and stable meadow (meadow since 1967) with the help of aerial photographs taken in 1967, 1977, and 2000. The survey results showed that the quadrats were divided into six vegetation types based on current vegetation composition. All new forests comprised alder (Alnus japonica) and were divided into two vegetation types. New meadows were also considered alder forest based on remnants of former forest and divided into two vegetation types. The site condition showed better correspondence to the pattern of vegetation change than the current vegetation composition, though it had a significant relationship with the latter. In new forests, high water table and a relatively high content of clay and silt characterized the site condition, whereas in new meadows, low water table and high sand content were the site characteristics. We discuss these site characteristics in the context of alder's adaptability to site. It is suggested that coarse sediment probably along with intense flooding and fine sediment coupled with high water table contributed to the disappearance and establishment of alder forests, respectively.
20050734|The causes and timing of seed death in early regeneration process of Siebold's beech (Fagus crenata Blume) was studied at 15 sites along a snowfall gradient in Japan, in order to clarify why the seedling density of the species has geographic difference remarkably. Seed production did not significantly differ along the snowfall gradient. Pre-dispersal seed mortality by insect damage was higher at sites with light snowfall than at sites with heavy snowfall, but this only seemed to be a minor factor influencing the population. A large proportion of the viable nuts that fall in autumn ware killed in winter before germination. Winter mortality was much higher at sites with thin snow cover than that at sites with thick snow cover, and this factor was strongly correlated with the geographic variation of seedling regeneration probability. There was little seed mortality by winter desiccation. The main factor contributing to the geographic difference seemed to be a seed predation by rodents in winter. Deep snow cover may reduce the success of rodents finding seeds in winter. Thus the observed relationship between snowpack depth and early mortality may be due to an indirect effect through the process of seed predation.
40926888|The persistence of seedlings in the forest understorey is of major importance for the maintenance and regeneration of canopy trees in several forested ecosystems. In the present study, we examine the small-scale spatial pattern of a mixed beech and oak seedling-sapling bank in two areas of an unmanaged temperate deciduous forest with different environmental conditions. We used environmental, biotic and spatial variables to establish the main factors that explain the spatial pattern of these seedling-sapling banks at different scales. The stand structure in both areas was similar, but while in plot A beech dominated the canopy, plot B was dominated by oaks. In both areas, established beech individuals showed a clear reverse J-shaped distribution, whereas established oaks showed a unimodal distribution with only a few young individuals. Seedlings of beech and oak were distributed in aggregates, whereas beech saplings had a random distribution. At broader scales, the abundance of seedlings and saplings is affected by the environment as well as by inter-species competition, while at finer scales the spatial pattern is mainly influenced by stochastic processes, probably related to seed predation and establishment. The structure of the seedling-sapling bank indicates an advantage of beech over oak as far as regeneration is concerned. Beech seedlings and saplings tolerate the stress induced by the canopy and the understorey and persist for many years, while oak seedlings decline in a few years. Therefore, if current conditions persist, after canopy opening beech seedlings and saplings can grow rapidly into the canopy and the stands will move towards beech dominance.
20146962|Patterns of seedling recruitment may have persistent effects on population and community processes. Assuming seed availability is not limiting, the environmental sieve (i.e., the suite of factors influencing seed germination and seedling emergence and survival) determines how many seedlings establish and, most importantly, where they do so. In this study, we identify the spatial structure of some resources and abiotic conditions known to be significant for tree seedling emergence and survival and determine how these environmental factors influence the establishment of Fagus grandifolia, Acer saccharum, Fraxinus americana, and Ostrya virginiana in a deciduous forest of southern Qubec (Canada). We expect an increase from Fagus, through Acer and Fraxinus, to Ostrya in the control of environmental variables on seedling emergence and survival, because of differences in the seed size of these species. Density of newly-emerged seedlings of all four species showed positive spatial autocorrelation at distances of up to ca. 10 m. Environmental variables were also structured at the same spatial scale, except for soil moisture. Acer seedling emergence pattern was positively correlated to photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), and the pattern of Fraxinus to soil N and moisture. Seedling survival was not spatially autocorrelated for any of the four species, although it was positively density-dependent in Acer and Fagus. In only Ostrya was seedling survival correlated (positively) to one of the environmental variables studied, i.e., PPFD. Overall, environmental variables were spatially less heterogeneous than seedling emergence and survival. Either seed availability was not saturating or factors not considered here, such as competition and predation (the intensity of which often varies with resources and/or abiotic conditions), modified the influence that the physical environment had on patterns of seedling establishment. Our prediction of a greater environmental control on seedling emergence and survival in small-seed species was not totally confirmed.
40926898|Habitat transformation caused by naturalized legumes has been considered as a profound environmental threat worldwide. However, the weight of the impact on species diversity of local native and naturalized flora has yet to be revealed. In order to gain a better understanding of the phenomenon, we developed and tested the following hypotheses: (1) naturalized legumes promote local species diversity; (2) naturalized legumes increase local naturalized species diversity rather than native biodiversity; and (3) the impact of naturalized legumes varies with habitat type. Four counties in Northern Taiwan were selected to form the study site. Nine major habitat types were identified in 100 sampling sites (1 km/each site) in northern Taiwan, and a total of 2,242 plots (1 m/each plot) were sampled. Species, cover, and biodiversity indices of both native and naturalized floras were obtained, and soil samples were collected from plots with and without naturalized legumes analyzed.The biodiversity and cover of the whole and naturalized flora were increased significantly by naturalized legumes, while no effects on native flora were found. The significant increase in the species diversity and cover of the whole flora and naturalized flora disappeared when naturalized legumes were excluded from the data set; the same trend was observed when habitat type was considered. Soil nitrogen was marginally significantly higher in the plots with naturalized legumes. The effects of naturalized legumes on native and naturalized floristic composition are divergent. Although species diversity and cover were increased by naturalized legumes, the additional species were naturalized legumes per se, which were the only beneficiaries of the enriched soil. The naturalized legumes did not facilitate further invasion by other exotic species, nor did they have an impact upon the native community in terms of cover, species diversity, or composition.
20051066|So little is known about about what goes on above our heads in rain forests and what lives there that the rain forest 'canopy' has been called the 'last biological frontier'. Until very recently, researchers had very limited access to the canopy, even in temperate forests and, not surprisingly, we are only just beginning to discover this part of the world. A new breed of scientists, canopy biologists, has evolved and have accelerated the rate of discovery. The implications for management of forests of this new voyage of discovery are enormous. At present conservationists, forest managers, environmental policy makers, and other research users have not even started to consider how to integrate the resulting new information for future planning and sustainable management and use of forests. The Earth Summit in 1992 drew attention to several of the principal biological dilemmas of the 20th century: biodiversity and forest loss, land conversion, climate change and ozone depletion. Understanding the importance of forest canopies for these issues is essential and researchers need to consider how better to coordinate their activities and deliver their results if they are to influence decision making at all levels. One new initiative shows some promise in this regard. Recently the United Nations Environment Program has supported the International Canopy Crane Network. This network of crane sites around the world will focus on providing an improved scientific basis for the importance of the forest canopy with respect to the Conventions on Biological Diversity, Climate Change and Ozone Depletion.
20050758|Plant form and spatial structure reflect the basic architectural blue-print of a plant. In most plant species, the expression of the structural blue-print is systematically altered during ontogeny resulting in predictable changes in the allometry of plant structures and in the types of structures that are produced. The expression of the structural blue-print or the timing of ontogenetic changes is also frequently altered by environmental conditions. This latter source of variability, referred to as phenotypic plasticity, is manifested through changes in the timing and rates of meristem initiation and development, the likelihood that meristems will remain dormant or commit to different demographic fates (i.e., vegetative vs. reproductive structures), or the size and structure of the organs formed. Complex interactions among these components can result in considerable differences in form and spatial structure among individuals of the same species. This paper focuses on the importance of these different components in determining the architecture of clonal plants with long internode connections between ramets. A case study is presented that attempts to separate ontogenetic variation and phenotypic plasticity in two stoloniferous species with different structural blue-prints, in their responses to shading. In both species the rate of ontogenetic development responded to intermediate shading levels, but only at very low levels of light availability did plastic changes in branch formation occur. Under shaded conditions the two species achieved similar changes in their architecture in conspicuously different ways. We discuss how different mechanisms leading to a given architecture can be distinguished and what the ecological implications of this are.
40540330|Tree species composition and structure of a 40-year chronosequence of secondary forests was compared with old-growth forests in southern Bahia, Brazil. Twelve stands were randomly selected that represented three age classes: 10, 25, and 40 year old with four replications in each class. All stands selected had been established after abandonment from swidden cultivation and were surrounded by old-growth forests. In every stand, ten 0.01-ha transects were established and all stems (> 5 cm diameter at breast height) were measured and identified. Results were compared with the dataset of two neighboring old-growth sites. Mean diameter, total height, and stand basal area increased with age. Number of trees/ha peaked in 40 year old stands. The results showed that secondary forests in this region take much more than 40 years to recover the structure of old-growth forests. In contrast, species richness recovery was rapid with a continuous accumulation of species with age in secondary forests.Species richness and diversity increased with age as did similarity between secondary stands and oldgrowth stands. More than half of the species found in the 40 year old stands were shared with the neighboring old-growth forests. However, species richness and diversity were higher in old growth sites.
20050530|Soil chemical properties for a subtropical rain forest in the Nanjenshan Reserve, southern Taiwan, were examined to determine soil-landscape and soil-vegetation relationships. Soil sampling sites were separated into four groups based on landscape features and exposure to the prevailing northeasterly monsoon winds. Corresponding vegetation types were delimited along the first DCA axis. The forest showed a drastic change both in structure and floristic composition along the wind-stress gradient. Redundancy analysis (RDA) showed that both topographic variables and vegetation types were needed to explain the variation in soil data. Soil properties that differed significantly among landforms were pH, available N, CEC, exchangeable Al, K, Ca and Mg. Levels of pH, exchangeable Ca and Mg increased in a downslope direction, and exchangeable Al tended to be higher in the upper slope soils. These trends pointed to the importance of slope processes in redistribution of soil minerals. The main differences in soil properties attributed to the influence of the occupying vegetation were apparently aspect dependent. The contents of available N, exchangeable K, and CEC in the 0-40 cm depth of soils under windward low-stature (mostly sclerophyllous) forest were consistently lower compared to those under the leeward forest. For a given catena, however, soil variability associated with vegetation differences seemed to be confounded by the slope processes.
20050753|An experiment was set up to test whether stoloniferous plants are able to avoid neighbours by means of asymmetric growth in response to low red:far-red (R:FR) ratios in light that is reflected by neighbouring plants. Neighbours were simulated by green mirrors that were placed on the north-side of the plants while spectrally neutral mirrors served as a control. Six stoloniferous species (Trifolium repens L., Hydrocotyle vulgaris L., Lysimachia nummularia L., Glechoma hederacea L., Lysimachia nemorum L. and Lamium galeobdolon L.) were included in the experiment. Measurements were made on branching frequency, timing of branching, stolon growth rate, internode length, growth direction and biomass distribution. Although differences between treatments were found in some of these parameters, they were too small to lead to the avoidance of the simulated neighbours. Only L. galeobdolon produced lower biomass in response to the green-mirror treatment compared to the control one.
20051253|Remnant population dynamics permit many plant species to persist time spans extending from decades up to several millenia. The regional-scale persistence of these plant species strictly depends on the persistence of local populations within the region. This type of dynamics can explain the existence of preglacial relict species in the Mediterranean today. We studied the population dynamics of the long-lived iteroparous herb Ramonda myconi, a preglacial relict species with a fragmented distribution in Mediterranean mountains, to evaluate the regional-scale persistence of the species. Demographic data were collected from 5 populations placed at La Cerdanya Pyrenean region for up to 6 years. The main life-history features of this species are the great longevity of adult plants and the high mortality of seedlings. Matrix population models were used to investigate its demography. Overall, the population growth rate () ranged from a low of 0.79 to a high of 1.06. However,  did not differ significantly from the equilibrium point, as indicated by their confidence intervals, except for one population in one year. Despite the small between-year variation in , variation in climatic conditions at La Cerdanya from year to year explained an important part of such variation. Elasticity analyses were performed to evaluate the relative importance of demographic parameters for population growth. Stasis transitions made the greatest contribution to . Finally, the long-term dynamics of R. myconi populations were analysed by incorporating environmental stochasticity into the models. Projections indicated that local R. myconi populations tend to decline over time but with a long time to extinction, so the persistence of R. myconi all over La Cerdanya is determined by the persistence of its remnant local populations.
20146554|From 1941-1944 nearly 30 phytosociological relevs were completed by F. K. Hartmann in the Rychlebsk Mountains, a typical mountainous area in northeastern Czech Republic. Of the original plots still covered with adult grown beech (Fagus sylvatica) forest, 22 were resampled in 1998 and 1999. In order to describe the recent vegetation variability of the sites 57 relevs were recorded. Changes in vegetation were estimated using relative changes in species density and ordinations (PCA, RDA). Environmental changes were assessed using Ellenberg indicator values when no direct measurements were available. A decline in species diversity has been documented, particularly, many species occurring frequently in deciduous forests with nutrient and moisture well-supplied soils around neutral have decreased. In contrast, several light-demanding, acid- and soil desiccation-tolerant species have increased. Natural succession, quantified as forest age, contributed slightly to these changes. In Ellenberg indicator values, a decline in F (soil moisture), R (soil calcium) and N (ecosystem productivity), and an increase in L (understorey light) were shown. This is interpreted as the influence of modified forestry management and of airborne pollutants. Intensified logging caused the canopy to open and soil conditions to worsen. The latter is most likely also due to acid leaching of soil cations (Ca, K, Na). This caused a decline in soil productivity, thus the effect of nitrification could not be detected. The original relevs may have differed in size influencing the results.
40212884|There has been little research examining the soil seed banks of degraded floodplain wetlands and their contribution to wetland rehabilitation in Australia. Our aim was to assess the establishment of plants from the seed bank that may occur following the delivery of an environmental water allocation to Kanyapella Basin, a 2950 ha wetland located on the floodplain of the Goulburn and Murray Rivers in northern Victoria, Australia. Two hypothetical water regimes were investigated (flooded and dry) in a glasshouse experiment, where plants were left to establish from the seed bank over a period of 124 days. Differences in the establishment of plants from the seed bank indicated that the return of a flooding regime is likely to have a significant effect on the composition of the wetland vegetation. Mapping of the distribution of plant species indicated that propagules were highly dispersed across the wetland for the majority of taxa, in contrast to the localised distribution of many of the plant species represented in the ex tant vegetation. Inundation favoured the establishment of native wetland and floodplain plants, although many areas of Kanyapella Basin that are currently 'weed-free' have the potential to become colonised and potentially dominated by introduced plants if the wetland is not managed appropriately. Overall, results supported the aim of management to reestablish a wetting and drying regime through use of an environmental water allocation. This study presents a significant example of the application of seed bank investigations in wetland ecology and management.
20050939|Halimium halimifolium (Cistaceae) is a shrub occurring on sandy substrates in the Mediterranean region and is the principal element of the sandy vegetation in Doana National Park (S.W. Spain). The annual cycles of leaf water potential, stomatal resistance and shoot growth were studied in permanently marked H. halimifolium plants. Three sites with different water availability at the stabilized sands of the Park -- Monte Blanco (MB, top of the dunes), Monte Negro (MN, depressions) and Monte Intermedio (MI, slopes of dune ridges) -- were chosen. The study was carried out during a period of extreme drought. MN individuals showed the greatest growth, both in main shoot and in ramets, less negative water potential values and lower stomatal resistance values than the other two areas, because individuals' roots could reach the water table all year long. In winter there were no differences in predawn, midday and sunset water potential or in stomatal resistance values in the three areas. In summer, MI individuals showed the most negative water potentials and the highest stomatal resistance, although they occupied an intermediate position in the water table depth gradient. Under drought conditions MI individuals are the most affected, because they are acclimated to use ground water during the growth period, while MB individuals, that never reach the water table, are acclimated to use found surface water and are, thus, better adapted to water scarcity.
20050460|In herbaceous canopies light availability can show high degrees of spatial variability in a vertical and also in a horizontal direction. Stoloniferous plants are hence likely to encounter differences in light availability during their ontogenetic development. Different mechanisms, such as petiole elongation, plasticity in internode length and branching, and an enhanced allocation to sexual reproduction have been suggested to represent viable shade-avoidance mechanisms for clonal plants. In a field experiment we tested the response of the stoloniferous herb Trifolium fragiferum L. to experimentally manipulated vegetation heights. Naturally occurring clonal fragments were exposed to four different vegetation heights ranging from 0 cm (high light availability created by clipping the surrounding natural vegetation at ground level) to 20 cm (natural shading in closed canopy). The growth and development of individual clones was followed for two months. At the end of the experiment above-ground plant parts were harvested. Growth-related and morphological parameters (e.g., petiole and internode length) as well as patterns of meristem utilization (i.e., flowering, branching) were recorded. Neither primary stolon growth and biomass accumulation nor branching and flowering were significantly affected by treatments. However, increased vegetation height resulted in a reduced number of secondary ramets and also had strong positive effects on petiole length, leading to marked changes in the architecture of plants growing in canopies of different heights. In addition, the average weight of individual ramets on the primary stolon was markedly higher in plants exposed to taller vegetation as compared to shorter vegetation. The results of this study suggest the occurrence of a trade-off between clonal expansion (i.e., secondary ramet production) and the average size of clonal offspring. If grown under higher vegetation plants invested more into the size of individual ramets, especially into elongating petioles, and less into the growth and development of lateral branches. Placing leaf laminae higher up in the canopy results in an enhanced light interception which has apparently buffered negative effects of increased vegetation height on whole-clone biomass. Plants grown under shorter vegetation invested more into lateral spread by producing more, but smaller ramets.
20146485|To describe root system topology of Pinus halepensis and Cistus monspeliensis saplings co-inhabiting natural post-fire sites, 55 P. halepensis and 26 C. monspeliensis saplings were extracted by the total excavation method from a burnt pine stand. Seedlings were individually labelled when emerging after fire and extracted three years later, at the sapling phase. In order to evaluate the effect of inter-specific competition of C. monspeliensis on P. halepensis root system, a stratified sampling was carried out according to density and height of the saplings. Topological parameters considered in the analysis were magnitude, total external pathlength, and altitude of the root systems. Weight and length of roots were also measured in order to estimate the specific root length, an index commonly used in morphological studies. Results clearly evidenced greater variability in root system topology of P. halepensis than C. monspeliensis saplings. Herringbone architecture (i.e., the most ordered pattern possible, with branching confined to the main axis) characterised small pine saplings, regardless of competition from C. monspeliensis, which changed to random branching in large saplings. In medium sized saplings, the root system was affected by inter-specific competition, which delayed changes in root branching. In contrast, C. monspeliensis invariably adopted randomly branched architecture, regardless of intra-specific competition. It is concluded that such different topological patterns make C. monspeliensis more competitive during the early stages of post-fire succession, because its root system is much more transport-efficient in the nutrient-rich environment. Those pines which finally branch roots by random pattern will reach higher stem height and magnitude, a factor which allows them to successfully compete with C. monspeliensis for soil nutrients and water. The morphological analysis showed a significant increase in the specific root length with competition, both in P. halepensis and C. monspeliensis saplings, which could be interpreted as a consequence of the reduction of root diameter in response to nutrient depletion.
20050805|We investigated the productivity of three premontane primary forest sites in an extremely nutrient-poor environment on the Guyana shield in SE Venezuela. Aboveground litter production (total 5.58; leaves 4.30
20146897|The ability of plant communities to recover after non-native species invasion will depend upon the nature of their soil seed bank and seed rain characteristics. This study assessed changes in the soil seed bank and seed rain associated with the invasion of the non-native shrub Cytisus scoparius in subalpine vegetation. Soil seed bank and seed rain composition, density and richness were investigated at three areas of different stages of invasion: (i) recent (8-10 years), (ii) mature (15-16 years) and (iii) long-term (25 years). There were few changes in seed bank composition or richness regardless of invasion stage. By contrast, the seed rain composition, richness and density was substantially different within long-invaded areas. Very few seeds were able to colonise the dense barrier characteristic of larger, more mature C. scoparius stands. Some prominent herbs from the native vegetation were under-represented or absent from the seed bank, both in invaded and uninvaded areas. Laboratory germination experiments demonstrated that most native species germinate easily, which may imply a transient seed bank, rather than a persistent one. The majority of herbaceous and shrub species were capable of resprouting vegetatively. Therefore, regeneration appeared more reliant on the bud and tuber bank than a persistent soil seed bank. The dominance of graminoid species and C. scoparius rather than other herbaceous, shrub or tree species suggests that the regenerating vegetation will be dominated by grass species and/or C. scoparius. Hence, in areas where long-invaded C. scoparius stands are present the recovery of native subalpine vegetation maybe difficult. Recovery may only be possible through wind dispersal from the surrounding intact vegetation or through actively reseeding the area. This study highlights the importance of early intervention in invasive species management.
20050596|The present study is an investigation on photosynthetic options in an orchid taxon and deals with the mainly epiphytes comprising genus Angraecum Bory. The incidence of crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) in Angraecum species collected at various habitats in Madagascar was surveyed by analysis of stable carbon isotope composition (
40212900|In disturbed sites, some groups of seeds might be excluded from the seed rain due to their dispersal modes or seed size, and some groups might be successful as a result of disturbance effects. In the present study, we examined the seed rain in natural treefall gaps and in an area of regenerating forest following an accidental burning, which occurred 4 years before this study. Both of these disturbed areas were compared with nearby forest understorey. The number of seeds, number of species, and proportion of wind-dispersed seeds were compared between these disturbed and undisturbed areas. The treefall gaps have received lower numbers of seeds and species than the nearby understorey, but the number of wind-dispersed seeds did not differ between these areas. The lowest seed number observed in treefall gaps can be attributed to a lower number of animaldispersed seeds, suggesting that animals may be avoiding treefall gap areas. A higher number of seeds and a lower number of species were observed in the burned area when compared to the adjacent understorey. The high number of small-sized seeds and of wind-dispersed seeds in the burned area was almost surely a consequence of the local production of the pioneer plants established after the burning. In this study, substantial differences were observed in the characteristics of the seed rain at disturbed sites, when compared with undisturbed understorey. However, these two distinct types of disturbance showed quite differing patterns, as treefall gaps received lower number of seeds while the burned area received a higher number of seeds, with a greater proportion of winddispersed seeds. The exception was for species richness, which was quite low at both these disturbed sites.
41508703|The Sieversio montanae-Nardetum strictae is one of the most widespread plant communities in (sub-) alpine regions of the Alps. Our study examines the composition, ecology and distribution of this plant community in the Eastern Alps and addresses the issue of how the community is to be classified in the phytosociological system of Nardus rich grasslands. Therefore, 357 vegetation relevs were taken from the literature and 115 from our own inventories were recorded from 2005 to 2007 in Western Austria (mostly Tyrol) and Northern Italy (mostly South Tyrol). Additionally, indicator values of Ellenberg and land-use information were used to help better interpret the ecological site conditions of the subgroups. The HCA revealed there the existence of four groups of the Sieversio montanae-Nardetum strictae, which were classified to subassociations: (1) typicum, (2) vaccinietosum, (3) trifolietosum pratensis, and (4) seslerietosum albicantis. Besides the specific plant composition, altitude specifies the first, land-use intensity the second and third, and the pH of the topsoil the fourth subassociation. For the Eastern Alps, the plant community of the Sieversio montanae-Nardetum strictae should now be reclassified in the order of Nardetalia and the class of Calluno-Ulicetea. Finally, this plant community can be further classified by using the four above-mentioned subassociations.
41508664|Reproductive allocation (RA) is a measure of how resources (biomass, nutrients) are partitioned between reproductive structures and the rest of the plant. For plants that resprout after fire, the percentage of resources allocated to reproduction may vary depending on their resprouting ability. Our study examines the percentage RA (biomass, N, P, K) and nutrient content of current season's growth in southern (Swan Coastal Plain) epicormic and northern (Eneabba Plain) lignotuberous resprouter populations of Banksia menziesii (Proteaceae), a species endemic to nutrient-impoverished sandplains of southwestern Australia. Within each population, plants along road edges were compared with plants not associated with road edges. There was no difference in total nutrient content of current year's growth between both resprouting types, except that total K in the shoots of lignotuberous populations was >2 times that in the epicormic populations. Non-road lignotuberous plants allocated twice the biomass, N and P, and 13.5 times the K, to reproduction as nonroad epicormic plants. Lignotuberous populations had the highest RA (17-34% of biomass, N, P, K), with non-road epicormic populations the lowest RA (3-15%). This can be viewed as an adaptive (ultimate) response to the poorer postfire survival and recruitment conditions where the lignotuberous populations occur. Total biomass and nutrient content of road-edge plants was 2-3 times that of non-edge plants. Lignotuberous populations in both road positions allocated the same fraction of biomass, N and P to reproduction, whereas road-edge populations allocated 10% less K than non-road. Road-edge epicormic populations allocated 5-10% more biomass, N, P and K to reproduction than non-road populations. This can be viewed as an ecophysiological (proximate) response to the better growing conditions created by the roadways that may also ultimately have an adaptive explanation.
40305590|At least 10% of the wetlands in Mexico are situated in the State of Veracruz on the central Gulf coast. The region has been intensively used for agriculture by humans for the last thousand years and today pastureland for cattle ranching is the dominant element of the landscape. We present a study of the wetland vegetation in a series of representative and internationally significant freshwater wetlands near the coastal lagoon La Mancha in Veracruz State. We obtained eleven wetland types formed by three wetland communities dominated by trees (mangrove or swamps), eight dominated by herbaceous species which we classified as marsh, five of which were native emergent marsh, one was a non-native emergent marsh and two were floating-leaved marsh. The highest diversity values were found in the Annona swamp, followed by the Sagittaria marsh and the Rhizophora-Laguncularia-Avicennia mangrove. CCA ordination showed that water level, disturbance and species number were the major factors explaining variation along axis 1, and on axis 2 conductivity, salinity, and bulk density. Wetland size was a major factor in both axes. We examined the interplay of intrinsic and extrinsic factors that give rise to the nature and diversity of wetland types that characterize the important wetland landscapes in this part of Mexico, being disturbance by human activities an important factor that favors the appearance of diverse species combinations.
40305693|Predicted changes in climate and increasing nitrogen deposition are likely to have significant impacts on species that have limited distributions or are already experiencing diminished population size. Arnica dealbata (A. Gray, Asteraceae), a listed sensitive species in Yosemite National Park, is endemic to California and has limited distribution within the park boundaries. The objective of this research was to examine the effects of altered precipitation resulting from climate change, increasing nitrogen deposition resulting from pollution, and prescribed fire on A. dealbata. A. dealbata cover significantly increased with increasing snowpack and prescribed fire. Increasing nitrogen deposition negatively affected cover. Our results suggest Yosemite's A. dealbata populations can thrive even under a changing climate if prescribed fire is frequently applied coupled with increased moisture availability.
20147010|The evergreen broad-leaved forest of Rhododendron ponticum represents a special type of Mediterranean vegetation because of their relict nature (allegedly pre-glacial, Southern-Iberian and Pontic) and connection with Macaronesian-Atlantic flora. The findings of ecomorphological (growth forms) and phenological (phenology) studies point to characteristics typical of its relict character and its relationship with sub-tropical lauroid vegetation (greater forest stratification, larger leaves, high percentage of photosynthetic stems, scarce tomentosity, pre-flowering in a season different to Mediterranean species and closeness of autumn-winter flowering species). There are, however, links with typical Mediterranean vegetation (Quercus L. forests) that surrounds the Rhododendron stands, due to its adaptation to Mediterranean climate (sclerophyll leaves, plant and leaf duration, post-fire regeneration, fleshy fruit and fruit setting-seed dispersal seasonality). Within the community, different groups of plants show different adaptations to the same biotope, suggesting their distinct paleo-phytogeographical origins. The results confirm the singularity of this vegetation within the typically Mediterranean environment where it grows and its connections with other extra-Mediterranean types.
40305771|Life-history theories predict competition and compromises between different reproductive and somatic (e.g., growth) functions in plants. This study concerns the costs of reproduction in an alpine herb, Parnassia palustris L., in light of global warming. The field experiments involved manipulations of temperature regime using open top chambers, and manipulations of the current level of reproductive investment by supplemental hand-pollination (SP) and bud removal (BR). The study continued for 2 years and costs of reproduction were evaluated in the second year by comparing reproductive outputs and growth between treatment groups. Flower manipulations carried out the first year had no statistically significant effect on reproductive or somatic variables in the second year, which suggests that reproductive costs in P. palustris are limited. Increased temperature, however, had a positive effect on a range of reproductive traits such as seed number, seed mass per fruit, mass per seed, and ratios between reproductive outputs and growth, but had no statistically significant influence on growth. No statistically significant interaction effects between flower manipulation and warming were revealed, which implies that the effects of flower manipulation in the first year does not differ statistically significantly between the two temperature regimes in the next year. We conclude that the lack of reproductive costs found in P. palustris at Finse expresses that resources are not restricted under a level that will induce high costs of reproduction. Furthermore, higher temperatures do not affect the costs, and finally, it appears that the reproductive costs are finetune controlled, which implies optimizing rather than maximizing of reproductive and somatic outputs.
20050592|An analysis of the ecological characteristics (life form, seed-dispersal mode, pollination mode, and reproductive mode) of about 1800 species of the flora of northwest Spain indicates that the most frequent characteristics are hemicryptophyte or therophyte life form, semachorous or barochorous seed dispersal, entomophilous pollination, and hermaphroditism. Following binary classification of the above characteristics (herbaceous versus woody life form, animal-assisted versus abiotic seed dispersal, animal-assisted versus abiotic pollination, dioecous versus hermaphrodite reproductive mode), statistically significant associations were found for all pairs of characteristics except pollination mode and reproductive mode (in disagreement with the results of previous studies which have detected significant associations between dioecy and abiotic pollination) and pollination mode and life form. To investigate the evolutionary plasticity of the different characters, we used nested analysis of variance with (in the case of life form, for example) percentage of species in genus with herbaceous life form as response variable, and with genus, family, order and subclass as nested factors and class as crossed factor. The results of this analysis indicated that higher-level grouping (class or subclass) accounted for the majority of total variance only in the case of pollination mode, suggesting either that pollination mode was typically determined early in evolutionary history and that there is currently little plasticity in this characteristic (i.e., phylogenetic constraints), or that this characteristic has been subject to stabilizing selection (i.e., phylogenetic niche conservatism). The other ecological characters, by contrast, showed high variability at lower levels in the taxonomic hierarchy.
41508665|We examined the effect of fire frequency and intensity on a Protea caffra tree population in the temperate montane grasslands of north-western KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. We assessed the effect of fire by comparing the population structure of the resprouter P. caffra in discrete bracken (Pteridium aquilinum) patches with that in the surrounding grassland matrix. Fuel biomass did not differ between grassland and bracken, but bracken fuel was significantly drier than grass. Above-ground fire temperatures and fireline intensity, measured by P. caffra char height, were significantly higher in the bracken habitat. Forty-two percent of the P. caffra population in grassland and in bracken persisted by coppice resprouts, having lost their original stem to fire damage. Exposure to higher intensity bracken fire suppressed P. caffra regeneration and caused greater adult mortality compared with trees in grassland. Consequently, the P. caffra population in bracken was skewed towards old age with most trees severely fire damaged. The high incidence of small trees in grassland indicates that a regular fire interval of 2-3 years does not negatively affect regeneration of P. caffra. However, in bracken patches regular high intensity fires cause high mortality among all P. caffra size classes and will ultimately result in local extinction. Bracken thus has the potential to significantly alter tree-grass interactions in these montane grasslands.
40666580|While plant litter is known to regulate soil moisture, little is known about the extent to which litter impacts moisture over and above the physical environment (i. e., ecosite) throughout the growing season, particularly in cool-temperate grasslands where moisture is considered less limiting for plant growth. In this study, we examined the relative impact of litter and ecosite on growing season soil moisture in a northern rough fescue {Festuca halli) grassland. We also examined the relationship between litter and plant biomass throughout the growing season, including linkages between litter, plant growth, and the effects of litter on microclimate.During May, only ecosite was found to be associated with soil moisture, with a similar finding for plant biomass. Litter became important in maintaining greater soil moisture in June and July, however, likely through its corresponding negative impact on soil temperature and associated evaporation.In general, litter had a stronger and more consistent influence on soil moisture than ecosite.Finally, litter had a positive relationship with above-ground biomass, but only during June and July, the same months when litter exhibited the strongest relationship with soil moisture. Litter therefore appears to promote mid-season plant growth in these temperate grasslands, presumably through its ability to reduce evaporation and maintain greater soil water during seasonal moisture limitations.
40212886|Plant censuses are known to be significantly affected by observers' biases. In this study, we checked whether the magnitude of observer effects (defined as the % of total variance) varied with quadrat size: we expected the census repeatability (% of the total variance that is not due to measurement errors) to be higher for small quadrats than for larger ones. Variations according to quadrat size of the repeatability of species richness, Simpson equitability and reciprocal diversity indices, Ellenberg indicator values, plant cover and plant frequency were assessed using 359 censuses of vascular plants. These were carried out independently by four professional botanists during spring 2002 on the same 18 forest plots, each comprising one 400-m quadrat, four 4-m and four 2-m quadrats. Time expenditure was controlled for. General Linear Models using random effects only were applied to the ecological indices to estimate variance components and magnitude of the following effects (if possible): plot, quadrat, observer, plant species and two-way interactions. High repeatability was obtained for species richness and Ellenberg indicator values. Species richness and Ellenberg indicator values were generally more accurate but also more biased in large quadrats. Simpson reciprocal diversity and equitability indices were poorly repeatable (especially equitability) probably because plant cover estimates varied widely among observers, irrespective of quadrat size. Grouping small quadrats usually increased the repeatability of the variable considered (e.g. species richness, Simpson diversity, plant cover) but the number of plant species found on those pooled 16 m was much lower than if large plots were sampled. We therefore recommend to use large, single quadrats for forest vegetation monitoring.
40666618|Fig trees (Ficus spp.) are of great ecological significance, producing fruits that are fed on by more birds and mammals than any other plants in the tropics. They are pollinated by host-specific pollinator fig wasps (Hymenoptera, Agaonidae), and their fruit phenology and reproductive success are, therefore, modulated by symbiotic fig wasps. However, there are few studies focusing on the variation of Ficus reproductive success in strongly seasonal environments. We examined the phenology and reproductive success of Ficus altissima growing in a highly seasonal climate towards the northern limit of the range of fig trees in Xishuangbanna, China. Leaf production occurred at irregular intervals throughout the year, with new leaves and syconia initiated together, producing between three and seven crops over a 3-year period. Syconia were produced in synchronous crops with asynchrony between trees. The syconia produced more seeds than pollinators, and those syconia with more seeds also produced more pollinators. Reproductive success (measured as the number of seeds and pollen-carrying agaonid females produced by each syconium) varied greatly between seasons. It was highest for crops that matured during the cooler, relatively dry periods from February to March and October to November, and was lowest during the summer months from April to August. This variation corresponded to small differences in the number of flowers in the syconia, but was mainly driven by large seasonal differences in the relative abundance of non-pollinating fig wasps.
40212916|We studied riparian forests along mountain streams in four large watersheds of western Oregon and far northern California, USA, to better understand the multiscale controls on woody riparian Vegetation in a geographically complex region. In each of the four-study watersheds, we sampled woody riparian Vegetation in161-ha sampling reaches that straddled the stream Channel. Within each hectare, we sampled riparian Vegetation and local environmental factors in 40 m sampling plots arrayed along topographic transects. We also surveyed natural disturbance gaps in 6 ha in each watershed to explore the effects offine scale disturbance on species distributions. We compared species composition across our study watersheds and used Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS) and chi-squared analyses to compare the relative importance of landscape scale climate variables and local topographic and disturbance variables in explaining species distributions at sampling plot and hectare scales. We noted substantial turnover in the riparian flora across the region, with greatest numbers of unique species in watersheds at the ends of the regional gradient. In NMS ordinations at both scales, Variation in woody riparian species composition showed strongest correlations with climatic variables and Rubus spectabilis cover, but the latter was only an important factor in the two northern watersheds. At the smaller scale, topographic variables were also important. Chi-squared analyses confirmed that more species showed landscape scale habitat preferences (watershed associations) than associations with topographic Position (94.7% vs. 42.7% of species tested) or gap versus forest setting (94.7% vs. 24.6% of species tested). The woody riparian flora of western Oregon shows important biogeographic Variation; species distributions showed strong associations with climatic variables, which were the primary correlates of compositional change between riparian sites at both scales analyzed. Additional local Variation in composition was explained by measures of topography and disturbance.
20146952|The effects of neighboring vegetation and soil fertility on the establishment, survival and growth of tree species were studied in a subtropical old-field area in south Brazil. Seed damage, germination and seedling establishment of four tree species plus growth and survival of two transplanted tree species were monitored under factorial combinations of the following treatments: (1) pioneer vegetation (presence and absence); (2) soil fertility (addition of NPK and control). Facilitation was the main process affecting plant performance. The presence of pioneer vegetation significantly improved germination, establishment, growth and survival of most study species. Around 90% of sown seeds were damaged and the removal of pioneer vegetation significantly increased seed damage for all species studied, decreased germination in three out of four species, and decreased establishment in one species. Moreover a significantly higher seedling growth rate of Inga virescens was found after the first year of the experiment in plots where vegetation was present. The presence of vegetation significantly increased seedling survival of I. virescens by protecting seedlings from leaf loss due to winter frosts. Competition was detected by the second year when a higher growth of transplanted seedlings of the species Araucaria angustifolia occurred in plots where vegetation was present and fertilizer were applied. A lower growth rate was detected in plots where vegetation was present but fertilizer was not applied. These results indicate a balance between competition for soil nutrients and protection by neighbor vegetation. Damage of seedlings by leaf cutter ants was an important barrier for plant survival. Damage occurred in 80% of the A. angustifolia seedlings and 58% of these damaged seedlings died. The presence of neighboring vegetation tended to protect seedlings from ant damage. Although competition occurred, facilitation seems to be the main process driving early successional changes in this subtropical old field. This was mainly due to the improvement of local microclimatic conditions and protection against herbivores by neighboring vegetation. Facilitation occurred during establishment and growth phases in a subtropical area that is considered a productive, low stress environment. Our results indicate that facilitation may be more frequent in productive environments than previously thought.
40212980|The traditional dichotomy of seed versus safe site limitation of plant populations is an oversimplification. While most plant models implicitly assume that the number of safe sites colonized will increase directly with increased seed production by each plant, the number of sites colonized may also strongly depend on patterns of seed dispersal relative to the parent plant, since the majority of a plant's seeds are deposited very close to it and so not all safe sites are equally accessible. I created a series of spatially explicit individual based plant population models exploring how seed versus safe site limitation is jointly affected by the number of seeds produced per plant and mean dispersal distances. While increased dispersal distance led to reduced seed limitation (more saturation of available safe sites) when a parent plant's site was temporarily unsuitable following its death, increased dispersal distances could increase seed limitation, especially at low per-plant fecundities, if safe sites did not turn over through time. Models comparing localized to global seed dispersal indicated substantially different degrees of seed limitation for constant per-plant fecundities. Thus seed addition experiments need to be designed to add seeds in realistic spatial patterns to yield meaningful results.
41412377|Land use history reconstructions in temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere indicate that periods of deforestation are often followed by natural afforestation, so that the long-term outcome at the landscape level will be a balance of retractions and advances of plant communities associated with varying local land uses. During the last decades of the XIX century, large forest areas were cleared in Northwestern Patagonia to open farmland. In this article, we compared historical land use/land cover maps with land cover maps derived from Landsat images to analyze the factors that may have influenced the dynamics of land cover change of the forest-steppe ecotone during the last 100 years. Our results indicate that Patagonian forests underwent a rapid initial recovery after the extensive fires of last century, replacing mainly shrublands. More than 50% of the old burns are currently covered by forests, and modern fires affect areas characterized by fire-prone vegetation. Whereas natural afforestation is an ongoing process positively associated with moisture, the rate of forest losses has increased during the last three decades, concentrating on xeric aspects and the vicinity of roads. We conclude that the outcome of the dynamics between fire-intolerant forests and fireprone plant communities will largely depend on human-related activities, modeled by structural features of the landscape (i.e., topography, dominant winds), and processes triggered by past land uses. the dynamics between fire-intolerant forests and fireprone plant communities will largely depend on human-related activities, modeled by structural features of the landscape (i.e., topography, dominant winds), and processes triggered by past land uses.
40305656|How do effects from perturbations such as irrigation and grazing that have an impact at one stage of the recruitment process (e.g., seedling) affect performance at later stages (e.g., adult)? Such effects may be transferred to later stages without any further change (transferred effects), reinforced by a similar effect so that their importance increases (accumulative effect), or counteracted at later stages by an opposite effect (counteractive effect). We analysed the predominance of transferred, accumulative, and counteractive effects depending on (1) organization level (community, functional group, and species levels), (2) life cycle stage (seeds, seedlings, and adults), (3) grass/forb functional group (forbs versus grasses), and (4) seed mass (small-seeded species, medium-seeded species, and large-seeded species). The study was conducted in Alcal de Henares, central Spain. During one annual cycle, we counted the number of readily germinable seeds (3,909 seeds: 2,156 forbs and 1,753 grasses), emerged seedlings (2,126 seedlings: 1,238 forbs and 888 grasses), and surviving seedlings up to reproductive adult status (917 adults: 217 forbs and 700 grasses) of all species (74 species) in a factorial field experiment under three different simulated rainfall and three seasonal sheep grazing regimes in a natural Mediterranean annual plant community composed of forbs (dicotyledonous herbs) and grasses (monocotyledonous herbs). Our main results were: (1) the proportion of transferred and counteractive effects was similar between the three studied organization levels (community, functional group, and species levels); (2) we detected many more counteractive effects in the seedling stage than in the adult stage; (3) we did not find more counteractive effects in forbs versus grasses, but transferred effects were more frequent in grasses; and (4) we found more counteractive effects with decreasing seed mass and more transferred effects with increasing seed mass. Our main conclusions were that the prevalence of counteractive effects reduces the sensitivity of the whole recruitment process and enhances the relative importance of the final stage (adults). The prevalence of transferred effects makes the recruitment process more predictable and more dependent on the early stages (seeds and seedlings).
40305702|In response to novel selection pressures in an introduced range, non-native species may evolve more competitive phenotypes unique from those of their native range. We examined the existence of an invasive phenotype in the herbaceous perennial Artemisia vulgaris, a frequent invader of the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic US. Populations from both the native (European) and the introduced (North American) ranges were grown in intraspecific competition (same population), inter-specific competition with the native perennial herb Solidago canadensis, and alone in a common garden to quantify shifts in resource allocation and neighbor effects on performance and competitive ability. Without competition, introduced A. vulgaris populations were much shorter than native populations, but germinated earlier, produced more ramets, more belowground and total biomass, and maintained higher root-to-shoot ratios. Under inter- and intra-specific competitions, introduced A. vulgaris populations were shorter, but produced more ramets, belowground, and total biomass than native populations. S. canadensis belowground and total biomass were more highly suppressed by introduced than native A. vulgaris. Our data suggest that since the introduction to North America, A. vulgaris has evolved a more competitive invasive phenotype characterized by many short ramets with more extensive root/rhizome networks. This rapid evolutionary shift likely benefits A. vulgaris in its introduced range by allowing establishment and subsequent dominance in dense stands of existing vegetation.
20050503|Non-myrmecochorous plant species are able to colonize Formica polyctena mounds. Galium aparine has been chosen as a model to study this kind of ant-plant association. In order to understand benefits to ants and plants, we have studied removal rates of fruits by ant workers, and compared soil seed material, seedling pattern and development of plants of the nest versus forest. Ant workers remove fruits at very low rates; removal time for half of the sample of 10 seeds was on average 5 h. Removed fruits were usually lost within 20-30 cm distance of the ant route. The soil samples from the nests contained a higher number of fruits, than those from randomly chosen sites in the forest. Seeds start to germinate in late August; on the F. polyctena mounds significantly earlier than at surrounding places. The seedling density was higher within experimental quadrats located on mound sites especially in late September-early October. The highest density of seedlings was on the slope of the mound. Plants from mounds are significantly longer, have a higher number of nodes during all stages of development and a higher mortality rate than that at surrounding places. The interactions between G. aparine and F. polyctena ants are asymmetrical. In spite of higher mortality rate of seedlings on mounds, ants provide some benefits to the plant. Firstly, workers are additional dispersal agents for G. aparine fruits. Furthermore, the soil peculiarities of ant mounds are beneficial for seed germination and seedling growth. G. aparine does not provide ants with energetically valuable food like plants with elaiosome-bearing seeds. Moreover, the high density of seedlings and plants on the mounds shades the nest.
23362528|The potential of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) for regeneration and encroachment onto dry grasslands in the forest-steppe ecotone was experimentally studied at the south-eastern distribution limit of the species in Mongolia. The experiment consisted of a sowing and planting (2-year old seedlings) assay at two different distances from the forest line and manipulation of the water supply by irrigation in one half of the replicate plots. Seedling emergence was strongly inhibited by post-dispersal seed predation (between 50 and >90 % of the seeds were apparently consumed) and by drought. Seedling survival was limited by drought and phytopathogenic fungi that infected the needles. Herbivory by insects or rodents, a key factor for seedling mortality in Larix sibirica, the most frequent tree species in Mongolia's forest-steppe ecotone, was of little importance in Scots pine, probably due to the production of efficient allelochemicals. The potential of Scots pine to regenerate in Mongolia's forest-steppe ecotone and to encroach onto the steppe is very limited and mostly restricted to the immediate vicinity of the forest; it might even decrease in future in the face of climate warming. The observed dependence of seedling emergence and survival on soil moisture suggests that regeneration outside the forest may only be successful in exceptionally moist years. Livestock grazing is certainly an additional limiting factor for Scots pine regeneration in Mongolia, but was not relevant in the present study area.
20050757|The ability of clonal plants to transport substances between ramets located in different microsites also allows them to modify the plastic responses of individual ramets to local environmental conditions. By equalising concentrations of substances between ramets, physiological integration might decrease responses to local conditions. However, integration has also been observed to increase plasticity and induce novel plastic responses in ramets. To ask how integration modifies plant plasticity in the clonal herb, Fragaria chiloensis, ramets were given either low light and high nitrogen or high light and low nitrogen, simulating a pattern of resource patchiness in their native habitat. Ramets in contrasting light/nitrogen treatments were either connected or single. Effects of light/nitrogen and connection were measured at three levels of morphological organisation, the organ, the ramet, and the clonal fragment. Connection between ramets reduced or had no effect on plastic responses in leaf size at the level of the plant organ. This suggested that integration dampened certain plastic responses. Connection induced a new plastic response at the level of the clonal fragment, an increase in allocation to vegetative reproduction in patches of low light and high nitrogen. It is concluded that clonal integration can have different effects on plant plasticity at different levels of plant organisation. It appears that, at least in this species, integration can increase plasticity at the level of the clonal fragment and concentrate vegetative reproduction in particular microsite types.
40212922|The effects of soil disturbance caused by the uprooting of a Single or a few canopy trees on species richness and composition of vascular plant species and bryophytes were examined in a temperate beech forest (Fagus sylvatica) in northern Germany. We recorded the Vegetation in 57 pairs of disturbed and adjacent undisturbed plots and established a chronosequence of mound ages to study the effect of time since microsite formation on plant species richness and composition. We found significant differences in plant species richness and composition between disturbed and adjacent undisturbed plots. Species richness of both vascular plants and bryophytes was higher in the disturbed than in the undisturbed plots, but these differences were more pronounced for bryophytes. We suggest that three main factors are responsible for this differential response. The availability of microsites on the forest floor that are suitable for the recruitment of bryophytes is lower than for vascular plants. Establishment of bryophytes in disturbed microsites is favoured by a greater abundance of propagules in the close vicinity and in the soil of the disturbed microsites, as well as by a greater variety of regeneration strategies in bryophytes than in vascular plants. Time since mound formation was a major factor determining plant species richness and composition. A significant decrease in the mean number of species was found from young mounds to intermediate and old mounds. However, differences were observed between vascular plants and bryophytes in the course of changes through time in species richness and composition. A large number of exclusive and infrequent vascular plant species was observed on young mounds, among them several disturbance specialists. We suggest that the establishment of many vascular plant species was infrequent and short-lived due to unfavourable light conditions and a low abundance of propagules. By contrast, the development of a litter layer was the main reason for the decreased mean number of bryophytes on old mounds. Our study Supports the view that groups of species differing in important life history traits exhibit different responses to soil disturbance.
40305481|We examine the spatial pattern of woody species diversity at different scales, in two sites of Mt. Holomontas in northern Greece, which falls within the transitional zone between temperate forests and Mediterranean-type ecosystems. We investigate how diversity is distributed in space and whether the perceived pattern changes with the scale of observation. We use two different metrics of diversity: species richness and species turnover. Our main finding is that the spatial pattern of diversity changes with the scale of observation or analysis. For a given scale, the pattern of species richness (alpha diversity) is negatively correlated with the pattern of species turnover (beta diversity). Species-rich areas have more species in common with their neighbors than species-poor areas. The between-scale disparity of the spatial pattern of diversity may be a general feature of ecological systems. For this to be validated, studies with different groups of species in different biomes and in different biogeographical areas are required; our study contributes to this direction providing evidence that this holds true for woody species in Mediterranean communities. Finally, we discuss how these findings might affect important issues in theoretical and applied ecology, such as identifying the environmental factors driving biodiversity.
40305565|Although some introduced plants arrive into their new range without their generalist and specialist herbivores, for others, their herbivores arrive prior to, with, or after the introduction of the plant, reestablishing the link between natural enemies and invaders in the introduced range. Research documenting the effects of adventitiously introduced herbivores on their target plants in the introduced range, and the mechanisms by which those effects occur, can provide insight into potential biological weed control. We studied the effects of an accidentally introduced beetle Brachypterolus pulicarius on the growth and reproduction of its host, the invasive plant Linaria vulgaris (yellow toadflax), growing under field conditions across multiple years and sites in western Colorado, USA. We found that feeding by B. pulicarius on L. vulgaris was variable among 3 years (2002-2004) and across eight local sites. Part of the variation in damage was explained by ramet density; sites with greater ramet density experienced a higher proportion of damage. In an observational study across 2 years, damage was positively correlated with estimates of sexual reproduction, ramet growth, and clonal shoot production. However, opposite trends were observed in an experiment; damage by B. pulicarius decreased estimates of sexual reproduction. Differences between the results of the observational and experimental studies were likely driven by selective feeding by B. pulicarius on larger ramets. Nonetheless, the ability of B. pulicarius to control established L. vulgaris population growth remains uncertain under the environmental conditions we studied. In both the observational and experimental study, B. pulicarius did not affect L. vulgaris survival, and we found no evidence that established L. vulgaris populations were seed limited, suggesting that reductions in seeds may not translate into demographic changes in heavily infested populations. Interactions among insect foraging behavior, individual plant responses to damage, and the demographic consequences of seed input may help to explain the varying degrees to which herbivores affect plants and populations in this and other systems.
41686750|It is unclear whether inter-tree competition plays a role in determining the woody plant cover of humid savannas. Spatial point-pattern analysis can give insights to the underlying processes affecting the individuals in a population. We assessed the spatial patterns of Acacia karroo trees from savannas in KwaZulu-Natal, using conventional nearest neighbour analysis and second-order spatial statistics such as Ripley's K- and L-functions, and the univariate and bivariate O-ring statistics. We predicted that juvenile trees would be spatially aggregated, because of facilitation between shrubs when zones of overlap are relatively small, while adult trees would be regularly spaced because of the effects of densitydependent mortality (i.e. consistent with the honeycomb rippling model). We found that juvenile trees were more aggregated than expected by chance, and the overall spatial distribution of all trees was also found to be aggregated, with no evidence of regularity among large individuals. Nearest neighbour analysis, however, revealed significant positive correlations between the sum of the distances to the four nearest neighbours and the sum of the canopy diameters of the target tree and its four nearest neighbours, indicating the presence of competition. In sum, these findings suggest that competitive interactions between A. karroo trees at these sites are relatively weak, and result in decreased performance (smaller canopy diameters) rather than mortality, thus preventing a regular pattern of tree distribution. We advocate the use of both methods of detecting competitive interactions in the field, especially if the effects of competition are too subtle to result in differential mortality.
20051027|Establishment success of plants derived from large seeds has been proposed to be greater than that of those derived from smaller ones, particularly under unfavourable conditions of moisture. Therefore, the advantages conferred by large seeds in terms of seedling performance may be modulated by abiotic conditions. The effect of seed size on Cryptocarya alba seedling performance (as determined by seedling recruitment and seedling size) was evaluated under two contrasting rainfall regimes (wet and dry year regime), simulated in the laboratory. It was also determined whether the presence of a pericarp, which had been shown to reduce germination, decreases desiccation and if this counterbalances the greater recruitment of seeds without a pericarp, especially under unfavourable conditions of moisture. Large seeds had a greater probability of recruitment and their seedlings attained a greater biomass, independently of the amount of water applied. In the simulated wet year regime, seeds with a pericarp showed a greater probability of recruitment than those lacking a pericarp. However, seedlings derived from both seed types attained a similar biomass. Under the dry year regime, seeds with and without a pericarp showed similar recruitment probabilities and their seedlings had similar biomasses. These results do not support the assumption that under favourable conditions of moisture, individual differences in seed size would not matter in term of seedling performance. A possible explanation in this case, is the presence of recalcitrant seeds in C. alba, which determines a very short time period for germination following dispersal. Therefore, any attribute that increases germination (e.g., large seeds) would be advantageous, independently of the prevailing abiotic conditions.
20051280|Relationships of vegetation, climate and soils in Shanxi plateau were analyzed by use of Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA). Shanxi province, located at 3435-4043 N, 11015-11433 E, was divided into a series of rectangular districts of 30 latitude by 20 longitude. Areas of vegetation formations and soil types in each district were measured carefully using fine grain on the vegetation and soil maps of Shanxi. Climatic data were mean values of 25 years records in each district. Three data matrices of climate, vegetation and soil were combined by CCA. The results showed that the distribution of vegetation is closely related to the variety of climates and to soils distribution.
40305556|Reliable assessment of the density and species richness of the viable seeds in the soil is essential to estimate the probability of successful restoration of a particular plant community. Since temperate calcareous grasslands contain several thermophilous species typical of fire prone habitats, heat shock can be expected to break dormancy of target species for calcareous grassland restoration. We tested the effect of heat shock on the estimated density and species richness of seeds in soil samples. Heat shock treatments between 70 and 110C resulted in both a higher estimated seed density and estimated species richness, in particular of specialist calcareous grassland species. Moreover, 25 species germinated exclusively from the heat-treated samples. This indicates that several species would have been missed by handling soil seed bank samples following the standard germination protocol, resulting in an underestimation of the restoration potential.
20051320|The tropical realm of the Pacific contains many islands with closely similar (analogous) environmental settings. Due to the 'filter effect' of the ocean, these are occupied by historically different species assemblages. This results in a unique biogeographic complexity not found in any of the continental tropical regions. The paper presents a hierarchical approach to the study of vegetation in analogous environments with data illustrated by a series of diagrams. It begins with differentiating island types and climatic zones. Then it focuses on Pacific-wide biomes, thereafter on island landscape profiles, and finally, on stand-level profiles as a method to compare forest structure and composition among islands in analogous environments at the scale of relevs. The conclusions emphasize the urgent need for intensifying conservation-oriented research and capacity building in all island countries of the Pacific (not only Hawaii) to protect their indigenous biodiversities for sustainable uses and the health of their ecosystems. Attention is also drawn to the scientific advantage of using the Pacific-Asia Biodiversity Transect (PABITRA) Network, since it connects the island areas across biogeographic boundaries in form of an experimental design. This design refers to analogous island environments filled with different sets of biodiversities, which follow a trend of impoverishment with indigenous founder species from west to east.
20051327|Seedling and root sprout recruitment after a volcanic deforestation was examined in a Prunus ssiori population. According to genotypes of five microsatellite (SSR) loci, 44 genets were identified among 188 ramets  5 cm DBH in a 2.3-ha plot in 2000. The genets formed mutually exclusive patches. Because only one repeat change in an SSR locus distinguished five genets from adjacent genets, there is a possibility that the five genets derived from somatic mutations as well as sexual reproduction. Thus, at least 39 genets originated from seedlings, and at least 144 ramets derived from root sprouts. The seedlings were recruited after the volcanic eruptions in 1739 and before 1972 because trees of 5 cm DBH were 28 years of age, estimated from annual rings. As the largest ramet recruited from a root sprout was estimated to be 94 years old, root sprout recruitment began between 1739 and 1906. Thus, the estimated minimum rates of recruitment from seedlings and root sprouts were 0.167
40305645|Soil chemistry can play an important role in determining plant diversity. Serpentine soils are usually toxic to many plant taxa, which limits plant diversity compared to that on adjacent non-serpentine soils. The usually high concentrations of toxic metals in serpentine soils are considered to be the edaphic factors that cause low diversity and high endemism. This paper aimed primarily to determine whether there is a relationship between serpentine soil chemistry and species richness on the Witwatersrand and to compare species richness of the serpentine areas with that of adjacent non-serpentine areas as well as with the species richness of the serpentine areas in the Barberton Greenstone Belt. The alpha-and betadiversity of the Witwatersrand serpentine and nonserpentine areas was also investigated. A secondary aim of this study was to determine which of the nonserpentine taxa were more common on the serpentine than off the serpentine, which taxa were more common off the serpentine than on the serpentine and which taxa were equally common on and off serpentine soils. There was no significant difference in alpha-diversity between the serpentine and the adjacent non-serpentine areas, but beta-diversity is higher between serpentine plots than between nonserpentine plots. Although soil factors do affect species richness and diversity of plants on the Witwatersrand to a limited extent, the concentrations of soil chemicals in serpentine soils are not sufficiently different from those in non-serpentine soils to significantly influence the species richness and diversity of the serpentine soils. The high, but similar, diversity on serpentine and non-serpentine soils on the Witwatersrand indicates that soil factors do not play a significant role in determining diversity on potentially toxic soils in the area.
40212988|Many studies now suggest that pathogens can cause high levels of mortality in seeds and seedlings. Recruitment from seed to sapling is an important bottleneck for many tree species, and if specialist or generalist pathogens have differential negative effects among species of juvenile trees, then they may have a significant impact on forest community structure. To explore the effects of differential pathogen attack among tropical tree species, we quantified pathogen attack on the seeds of 16 tree species from the southeastern Peruvian Amazon and asked which seed characteristics, including size, hardness, germination time and mode, shade tolerance, and fruit type, were most closely correlated with susceptibility to pathogens. Shade tolerance and seed weight were positively and significantly correlated with susceptibility to pathogen attack by ecological trait regressions (ETRs), and correspondence analysis indicated that there might be increased attack rates in species with brightly colored, pulpy fruits (often dispersed by primates). Only shade tolerance was significantly correlated with pathogen attack when the analyses accounted for phylogenetic relatedness between species. Thus, contrary to standard predictions of size-defense ratios, our results suggest that larger, shade-tolerant seeds tend to be more susceptible to pathogen attack than smaller, light-dependent seeds. Moreover, differential pathogen attack may shape seed community composition, which may affect the successful recruitment of adults.
20146549| One of the habitats occupied by Mammillaria magnimamma is a 2000-year old lava-field, in Mexico City. The great ecological interest on this lava-field and the little knowledge there is regarding cacti population ecology have compelled us to analyse the demography of this species to evaluate its present conservation status at this site. We studied two populations of this species within the lava-field: one in a disturbed site (i.e., recently burned) and another one in a well preserved site. For each population we built two size-based population projection matrices (1996/97 and 1997/98). Demographic data were gathered directly from observations of plant fates from one year to the next. Additionally, seed germination and seedling establishment experiments were carried out in the field to estimate fecundity values and seedling survival probabilities. The four matrices built were used to perform numerical analyses simulating yearly stochastic demographic variation to project the overall population's long-term behaviour under these changing conditions. Three of the four matrices showed  values slightly below unity. In these cases elasticity values were highest for matrix entries corresponding to plants remaining in their same category. The matrix that showed a  value above unity (well preserved site, 1997/98) had higher elasticity values for entries referring to seedling survival and growth. The numerical simulations of demographic stochasticity showed that the population appears to be growing at a slow rate. According to the simulation results, the variation in overall population size over time may be accounted for by yearly variation in seed germination and seedling survival. Population persistence probability might decrease significantly if fire frequency increases. 
40540375|Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius), is a leguminous shrub, native to the Mediterranean, which has invaded most of the remaining Garry oak savannah ecosystems in Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia. Here, it is considered to be a threat to the native plant community. We tested the hypothesis that broom would increase available soil nitrogen by comparing soil nutrients in contiguous broom-invaded and non-invaded sites. We then looked for changes in patterns of diversity in the herbaceous community that might indicate a role of Scotch broom in changing conditions following its invasion. Finally we carried out greenhouse assays to test whether broom had a greater impact on the growth of a native and an introduced grass compared to that of a native shrub. Broom was associated with only a weak trend in increased soil nitrogen, but a significant decrease in soil phosphorus was observed. Patterns of plant diversity differed between two sites. At one site, 60% of the plants whose abundances increased in the broom-invaded plots were introduced species while native species abundances decreased in the broominvaded plots compared to broom-free plots. At the other site, 60% of the plants that caused the differences between broom-invaded and un-invaded plots were native species that were less abundant in the broom-invaded plots. Finally, in greenhouse assays grass growth was not affected as a result of being grown with broom; however, grasses appeared to produce more flowers when grown with broom. We conclude that broom does not necessarily modify soil nitrogen availability but may deplete soil phosphorus availability and that broom invasion can be associated with increase of exotic species and/or the decline of native species.
20051158|It has been suggested that exotic species will colonize within forests more frequently by the continual introduction of seeds through horse dung deposited along trails. Whether or not these exotic species have the ability to spread into and establish in the forest interior has been disputed. To address this, horse dung and soil samples were collected from trails during Autumn 1994 and Summer 1995 from three areas in southern Illinois, USA open to recreational horse travel. In addition, deer dung samples were collected from each of the study areas. Vegetation data were collected from each of the trail systems as well as from a trail along which horse travel was prohibited. The density of vascular plants in 0.25 m quadrats placed at varying distances from the trail center to 5 m into the forest interior were recorded. Finally, dung samples were placed in situ along horse trails at one site to examine seedling germination in natural conditions. While 23 exotic species germinated from samples of horse dung placed out in a greenhouse, only one of these exotic species was also found in trail plots (Kummerowia striata). Similarly, while there were empirically more exotic species found along the trails allowing horse travel than there were on the trail lacking horse travel, the relative importance of those species was negligible along both trails. These results suggest that the emigration of exotic species via horse dung does not pose an immediate threat to the plant communities adjacent to trails in these forest systems. Nevertheless, the large number of exotic species in horse dung reflects the constant threat to any system from these species. Care must be taken, when allowing horseback use in areas, to anticipate invasion by exotic species from horse dung
23267461|Understanding the factors which affect the distribution of alien plants in arid islands is complicated by the complex and stochastic nature of the invasion process per se, the harsh environmental conditions, and the low number of researchers and sampling effort. We present the results of the most comprehensive inventory to date of alien vascular plant species occurring in Socotra Island, a global biodiversity hotspot just beginning to be developed. A floristic survey was conducted between 2006 and 2008 in 36 grid cells of 10  10 km. We integrated this data from this survey with those from scientific literature. We recorded 88 alien plant species. Tree and herbaceous species were the most common growth forms. Species from Asia and edible species were prevalent. We identified 80 species considered weeds worldwide with >50 % adapted to arid conditions. We used a two-part model to analyze the spatial distribution of naturalized and alien plant species in relation to environmental and anthropogenic factors. Altitude and human-related factors play a significant role in the distribution of both naturalized and invasive species. Notably, the latter can potentially spread mainly in the alluvial basal areas. This study underpins the knowledge about alien species and their spatial distribution in Socotra Island. It provides a baseline for plant invasion management and contributes data for the analyses of invasion processes on islands worldwide.
20050593|The ability of Vaccinium myrtillus L. to recover from simulated winter herbivory has been investigated on different plants which had been exposed to three elevated temperatures (5 C, 10 C or 20 C) for four weeks in a greenhouse environment. After herbivory, number and length of new aerial shoots and number of leaves/shoot increased faster in plants kept at 5 C and 10 C than in those kept at 20 C. In the following autumn, however, only the shoot number differed between treatments, being greatest in plants of treatments at 5 C and 10 C and lowest at 20 C and the outdoor control. Apparently the plants kept at 20 C had already used their resources for growth before herbivory simulation, which reduced their recovery ability thereafter. In addition, the growing season was too short for the control plants to produce as many new shoots as the treatments. The results show that the recovery of V. myrtillus from winter herbivory is rapid if it occurs before growth has started. Hence the earlier onset of spring as a consequence of climate warming may not be fatal for the plant, unless the temperature increase triggers growth to start many months earlier than normal.
20051126|In annual plants, increased competitive advantage has often been attributed to rapid germination and early establishment. In contrast, many annual species exhibit some degree of delayed germination (i.e., seed dormancy) that results in the formation of age structure within the seed population. Delayed germination can be an effective bet-hedging strategy in variable or unpredictable environments as a seed bank can buffer against years with reproductive failures and reduce the probability of local extinction. However, there has been little consideration of the direct effects of aging within the seed pool although the potential demographic costs of such a strategy (e.g., mortality in the seed bank or delayed reproduction) are well known. We used aged (4 year-old) and freshly produced seed from meadow steppe and sagebrush steppe populations of an annual grass (Bromus tectorum) to investigate the importance of seed age on seedling vigor and competitive ability. Aged seed from the meadow steppe population exhibited delays in germination that reduced plant growth and final biomass when the plants were grown with competition. Aged seed from the sagebrush steppe population did not exhibit delays in germination. By including a treatment that experimentally delayed the germination of freshly produced meadow steppe seed, we also examined the effects of delayed germination alone. A comparison of results from this delay treatment with those from the aged seed treatment suggested that the reduced competitive ability of meadow steppe plants produced from aged seed, although largely a result of the temporal delay in germination, was partly due to reduced seed vigor. Together these results indicate that physiological costs associated with seed age may affect aboveground competitive interactions and, in turn, the relative fitness of older cohorts in the soil seed bank.
40212845|The study of plant functional types (PFTs) has been widely emphasized when analysing plant community changes in relation to variations in climate and disturbance regime. In this study, we search for PFTs of woody species near forest-grassland boundaries in South Brazil where, due to climate, forests tend to expand over grassland but are being restricted by frequent fires. We aimed at answering the questions: (i) which plant functional types of forest woody species can establish in adjacent grassland subject to fire disturbance and (ii) which plant functional types of forest and grassland woody species are related to short-term community dynamics in frequently burned grassland. Traits were assessed in woody plants in 156 plots (6.75 m) arranged in 12 transects across forest-grassland boundaries with different fire history in their grassland part. The analysis used a recursive algorithm to search for traits and PFTs maximally associated to spatial distance from forest limit in one analysis, and elapsed time since last fire in another. As a result, nine PFTs of forest woody species were identified that best described community patterns associated to distance from forest. Resprouting ability characterized forest plants able to colonize grasslands. PFT diversity was higher in border plots than inside forest or grassland. Four PFTs of forest and grassland woody species best described woody species community patterns in the grassland associated to elapsed time since fire. Taller individuals of single-stemmed shrubs predominated in late post-fire recovery (3-4 years), while shorter multi-stemmed shrubs in recently burned areas (3 months to 1 year). PFTs of forest trees occurred in border plots or, as established adults, in grassland, remaining unaffected by fire. We conclude that easily measurable structural plant traits, such as those used in our study, are sufficient to evaluate post-fire community dynamics. Forest PFTs in burned grassland are restricted to those with resprouting ability to survive recurrent fire events. Establishment success is highest on protected sites with lesser or low-intensity fire.
20050409|Attenuation of ultraviolet (UV)-radiation into the water column is highly correlated with the concentration of the dissolved organic matter (DOM). Thus UV penetrates deeper into marine waters than into freshwater systems. DOM is efficiently cleaved by solar surface radiation levels consuming more oxygen than bacterial metabolism. This photolytically cleaved DOM exhibits higher absorbance ratios (250/365 nm) than untreated DOM. Natural bacterioplankton reach higher abundance if inoculated in previously solar-exposed DOM than in untreated DOM; during bacterial growth the absorbance ratio declines steadily indicating the utilization of the photolytically cleaved DOM. On the other hand, bacterioplankton are greatly reduced in their activity if exposed to surface solar radiation levels. Photoenzymatic repair of DNA induced by UV-A radiation, however, leads to an efficient recovery of bacterial activity once the UV-B stress is released. Turbulent mixing of the upper layers of the water column leads to a continuous alteration of the UV exposure regime. Close to the surface, bacteria and DOM are exposed to high levels of UV-B leading to a reduction in bacterial activity and to photolysis of DOM. Once mixed into deeper layers where UV-B is attenuated, but sufficient UV-A is remaining to allow photoenzymatic repair, the photolytically cleaved DOM is efficiently taken up by bacterioplankton leading to even higher bacterial activity than prior to the exposure. Thus, the overall effect of UV on bacterioplankton is actually an enhancement of bacterial activity despite their lack of protective pigments.
20146650| Data on field biomass measurements in temperate grasslands of northern China (141 samples from 74 sites) were obtained from 23 Chinese journals, reports and books. Net primary productivity (NPP) of grasslands was estimated using three algorithms (peak live biomass, peak standing crop and maximum minus minimum live biomass), respectively, based on availability of biomass data in sites. 135 samples which have aboveground biomass (AGB) measurements, have peak AGB ranges from 20 to 2021 g m (mean = 325.3) and the aboveground NPP (ANPP) ranges from 15 to 1647.1 g m per year (mean = 295.7). 72 samples which have belowground biomass (BGB) measurements, have peak BGB ranges from 226.5 to 12827.5 g m (mean = 3116) and the belowground NPP (BNPP) ranges from 15.8 to 12827.5 g m per year (mean = 2425.6). In total 66 samples have the total NPP (TNPP), ranging from 55.3 to 13347.8 g m per year (mean = 2980.3). Mean peak biomass and NPP varied from different geographical sampling locations, but they had a general rough regularity in ten grasslands. Meadow, mountain and alpine grasslands had high biomass and NPP (sometimes including saline grassland). Forested steppe, saline grassland and desert had median values. Meadowed and typical steppes had low biomass and NPP (sometimes including desert). The lowest biomass and NPP occurred in deserted steppe and stepped desert. Grassland ANPP has significant positive relationships with annual and summer precipitation as well as summer temperature (all p &lt 0.01). However, grassland BNPP and TNPP have more significant negative relationships with summer temperature (p &lt 0.01) than with annual temperature (p &lt 0.05). The analysis of climate - productivity correlations implied that aboveground productivity is more controlled by rainfall, whereas below-ground and total productivity is more influenced by temperature in the temperate grasslands of northern China. The present study might underestimate grassland NPP in northern China due to limitation of biomass measurements. Data on relative long-term aboveground and belowground biomass dynamics, as well as data of standing dead matter, litterfall, decomposition and turnover, are required if grassland NPP is to be more accurately estimated and the role of temperate grasslands in the regional to global carbon cycles is to be fully appreciated. 
20050741|A phytogeographical comparison of S.W. Morocco (the 'Argan area' western part of the Anti-Atlas mountains) and the neighbouring Canary Islands is performed in order to determine whether or not this original North-African area must be included in the Macaronesian sub-region. Patterns obtained with some species' life attributes (growth forms, succulence, dispersal) and biogeographical spectra show that, in spite of some similarities regarding climate, flora (presence of succulent species and endemics common to the two areas) and landscape in the lower zones (infra-and thermo-Mediterranean 'tages'), S.W. Morocco belongs to the Mediterranean sub-region. Characteristic features are the high percentages of Mediterranean indigenous annuals and phanerophytes, and the low level of adaptive radiation compared to the Canary Islands. Nevertheless, some parts of this Moroccan area have acted as major refugia for the Tertiary paleoflora (e.g., Aeonium arboreum, Davallia canariensis, Dracaena draco subsp. ajgal, Sonchus pinnatifidus), especially in the newly described rupicolous communities. Contrasting reliefs and fog precipitation induced by the nearby Atlantic Ocean explain the moderate impact, in these regions, of drastic climatic changes since the Pliocene period.
20050754|Root response to reduced red/far red ratio above ground was studied in an experiment with 12 vegetatively propagated clones of Festuca rubra, a rhizomatous grass species. A new method suitable for describing the node position within rhizome systems was developed. It uses a combination of developmental and functional directions of ordering, adopting methods of topology. At each node the root structure was defined as consisting of three root types: unbranched, long branched and fine branched. Root system size was expressed as the number and length of roots of these individual types. Rhizomatous and non-rhizomatous clones of Festuca rubra differed in the size and structure of their root systems and in the response to lowered red/far red light ratio. This response was caused more by the behaviour of the rhizomes than of the roots alone. In rhizomatous clones, the largest differences in root system structure were between the mother-nodes and the nodes on the rhizomes. The size of the root system also depended on the node position. Response to the red/far red ratio was clone specific only in some of the root parameters, especially in traits of unbranched roots at young nodes. The role of the three root morphotypes in the plant's ontogeny, nutrient uptake and ability to cope with environmental heterogeneity both above- and below ground, is discussed.
20146592|Seedling emergence and survival of 15 perennial species were studied for six years in a 557-m permanent plot at Tumamoc Hill, Arizona, USA, an ungrazed site in the northern Sonoran Desert. The minimum rain required for germination and emergence ranged from 17.5 to 35.6 mm. Few species emerged in every year of the study. First-year survival averaged across all 15 species was 3.7%; only 0.1% of seedlings lived as long as four years. The odds of survival in the first year improved with increased rain. About three times as many seedlings died from predation as desiccation. In 2-m subplots, mortality of three woody species in the first 30 days after emergence appeared to be independent of seedling density. Short-, moderate-, and long-lived species displayed distinct survival strategies. Long-lived species compensated for generally poor seedling survival by frequent germination and emergence. Moderate-lived species exhibited highly episodic germination and emergence, a potentially risky behavior that might have been offset to some extent by relatively good long-term survival. Short-lived species had the highest seedling survival. Because these species can bloom in their first year, good early survival meant that some individuals were able to reproduce before they died.
40212847|The effects of different restoration measures and management variants on the vegetation development of newly created calcareous grasslands were studied in southern Germany from 1993 to 2002. In 1993, fresh seed-containing hay from a nature reserve with ancient calcareous grasslands was transferred onto ex-arable fields with and without topsoil removal. Nine years after start of the restoration, the standing crop was lower and the cover of bare soil was higher on topsoil-removal sites than on sites without soil removal. Topsoil removal had a positive effect on the proportion of target species (class Festuco-Brometea), because the number and cover of productive meadow species (class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea) were reduced. Persistence of hay-transfer species and the number of newly colonizing target species were highest on topsoilremoval sites. On plots with and without soil removal, species richness and the number of target species increased quickly after hay transfer and were always higher on hay-transfer plots than on plots that had not received hay in 1993. In 2002, differences induced by hay transfer were still much more pronounced than differences between management regimes. Management by mowing, however, led to higher species richness, a greater number of target species and a lower number of ruderals in comparison to no management on restoration fields without soil removal. A detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) indicated that vegetation composition of the hay-transfer plots of the restoration fields still differed from the vegetation of ancient grasslands in the nature reserve. Vegetation of an ex-arable field in the nature reserve (last ploughed in 1959) showed an intermediate successional stage. In general our results indicate that the transfer of autochthonous hay is an efficient method for the restoration of species- rich vegetation, which allows not only quick establishment but also long-term persistence of target species.
20051095|Continuous depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer has resulted in an increase in solar ultraviolet-B (UV-B; 280-315 nm) radiation reaching the Earth's surface. The consequences for aquatic phototrophic organisms of this small change in the solar spectrum are currently uncertain. UV radiation has been shown to adversely affect a number of photochemical and photobiological processes in a wide variety of aquatic organisms, such as cyanobacteria, phytoplankton and macroalgae. However, a number of photosynthetic organisms counteract the damaging effects of UV-B by synthesizing UV protective compounds such as mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs) and the cyanobacterial sheath pigment, scytonemin. The aim of this contribution is to discuss the responses of algae and cyanobacteria to solar UV-B radiation and the role of photoprotective compounds in mitigating UV-B damage.
40305544|Seed predation and seed dispersal are key factors that determine plant recruitment. In this study, we compared the role of small (<200 g) and 'large' mammals as predators of Araucaria angustifolia (Araucariaceae) seeds in the Brazilian Araucaria Forest. We also investigated the effect of deposition site, namely open grassland, forest edge or forest interior (>50 m from the edge) on seed-removal rates. We conducted field experiments on seed removal in July 2003 and 2004. We compared the habitat types using two exclusion treatments: semipermeable exclosure (exclusive access of small rodents) and an open control (access of all mammal groups). We considered proportion of seeds removed after 15 days to investigate the effect of year, habitat type, and exclusion treatment on seed removal by using three-factor permutational ANOVA. We also evaluated seed fate and seed consumers by using spool-and-line devices attached to seeds and camera trapping. The results showed that seed removal differed significantly between years and among habitat types, but not between exclusion treatments. Removal rates were higher in 2004 than in 2003 and also were significantly lower in the open field when compared with both forested types (edge or interior) in both years. There was also a significant interaction between 'year' and 'habitat' which was driven by an increase in 2004 removal rates in the open field compared to the previous year. Our combination of manipulative experiments, camera-trapping survey, and spool-and-line seed tracking demonstrated that small rodents are responsible for the majority of seed removal of A. angustifolia in the study area. The low removal rates in open habitats indicate that they could serve as safe sites for A. angustifolia seeds. The results also suggested a potential role of small rodents as seed dispersers (about 4% of removed seeds were not consumed). The knowledge of how fragmentation affects pattern of seed predation and establishment of A. angustifolia through changes in abundance of different-sized mammals is essential for the conservation of the Brazilian Araucaria Forest and its most characteristic species.
20146957|Cliff faces worldwide have recently been recognized as sites that harbour ancient forests, endangered biota and high levels of biodiversity, but knowledge is limited of the physical factors organizing cliff-face vegetation communities. Two large scale (geographic), five local, and eight fine scale (microtopographic) physical factors were examined using regression and Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) to determine what scale of physical factors best explains variation in cliff-face vegetation on the 785 km long Niagara Escarpment in southern Ontario, Canada. The richness, frequency and community composition of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens were determined for 72 cliff-face quadrats to discern whether these vegetation groups followed different patterns in their responses to the measured physical factors. A total of 124 different taxa (consisting of 50 vascular plant species, 21 bryophyte species, and 53 lichen taxa) were found on the cliff faces sampled in this study, though only 28 of these taxa were present in more than 10% of the sampled quadrats. Vascular plant and bryophyte species richness and frequency, and lichen frequency were only significantly correlated with microtopographic factors, while lichen species richness was correlated with a variety of fine and local scale physical factors. The fine scale factor 'volume of soil', in particular, was highly correlated with variation in richness or frequency for all vegetation groups, with increasing volume of soil correlated with increasing vascular plant richness and frequency and decreasing bryophyte richness and lichen frequency. A suite of local and fine scale physical factors also explained large proportions of variation in cliff-face vegetation community composition. A large scale gradient in the vegetation community was detected, though it resulted from fine scale physical differences between sites rather than from a latitudinal gradient. These results suggest that distinct subcommunities of vegetation exist on cliff faces and correlate with fine scale differences in microtopography.
40305534|The populations of the Laperrine's olive (Olea europaea subsp. laperrinei) are located in three main areas corresponding to the mountains of northern Niger (Ar), southern Algeria (Hoggar), and north-western Sudan (western Darfur). The populations native of Niger were found to occur in very fragmented patches from 1550 to 1850 m in five isolated mountains with population sizes not exceeding 100 trees each, except in the Tamgak. Samples in the Tamgak and the Bagzane mountains were studied by combining field observations with identification of genets (using highly variable DNA marker analyzes). Trees were relatively small and multi-stemmed like those in the Hoggar, and were associated with some tropical species as in the western Darfur. They were found on borders of "wadis", i. e., temporary water courses, in ravines and on hillsides. They were unable to rely on sexual reproduction, which was found to be ineffective. In contrast, 28% of the genetic profiles found (ngenet = 98) were represented with two or more trees without aboveground connections. Molecular and morphological data both demonstrated that the populations used clonal growth (CG) to survive in the current unfavorable period of hyper-aridity, and thus are likely to be remnant populations. Signs of human-related disturbances, recorded on 43% of the sampled trees, should be a determining factor of distribution as well. In the Bagzane mountains especially, where human activities are more intense than in the Tamgak mountains, trees developed preferentially on hillsides and ravines with low access rather than on wadi borders with better edaphic conditions but easier access for livestock/people. CG may be therefore, a survival strategy both against aridity and human-related disturbances. Sexual reproduction may be triggered during a less arid period, following the model of multiple demographic strategies, widespread in arid environments. However, survival would be affected by browsing and cuttings. Lastly, the absence of an efficient sexual strategy coupled with the high fragmentation of very small populations and a narrow altitudinal range of distribution indicates that today the populations of O. e. laperrinei in the Air mountain range are more endangered than those from southern Algeria and north-western Sudan.
20050858|Altitudinal distribution of evergreen broad-leaved trees and changes in their leaf sizes were studied on a humid subtropical mountain, Mt. Emei (3099 m a.s.l., 2934.5 N, 10321.5 E), Sichuan, China. Among the total woody flora of ca. 540 species, evergreen broad-leaved trees account for 88 species in 39 genera and 23 families, corresponding to the northern limit of subtropical evergreen broad-leaved trees. The number of evergreen broad-leaved tree species greatly decreased from the low-altitudinal, evergreen broad-leaved forest zone (600-1500 m) to the mid-altitudinal, mixed forest zone (1500-2500 m), and to the high-altitudinal, coniferous forest zone (2500-3099 m). The overall trend of reduced leaf size toward upper zones was analyzed and documented in detail. The 88 species were assigned to three leaf-size classes: notophylls (48%), microphylls (36%), and mesophylls (16%). The leaf size was relatively small and the specific leaf weight (SLW, mg
20050866|Euphorbia clivicola R. A. Dyer is a Critically Endangered Northern Province endemic confined to two populations that have declined drastically over the last decade. One population is protected within a Nature Reserve, while the other occurs in a peri-urban area. In order to determine the causes of the population declines, herbivory damage to plants in both the protected and urban populations was quantified and the effects of herbivory on various aspects of the population biology were assessed. Mountain reedbuck are believed to have been responsible for the herbivory in the protected population. Herbivory on the above-ground branches probably caused the small sizes of protected plants. These were on average less than half the size of urban plants. Herbivory caused a reduction in the number of flowers and fruit produced per protected plant and may have prevented the maturation of flowers into fruit, thereby reducing the total regenerative output of the population. An eight-year absence of fire had resulted in the build-up of a dense moribund grass layer. The selection of E. clivicola plants by mountain reedbuck may therefore have been due to their relatively high nutritional value and accessibility in the thick moribund grass layer. Fencing off the population to prevent entry of herbivores, and implementing a more suitable fire management programme is recommended, as is the adoption of a new IUCN status for the species of Critically Endangered (CR A1).
24553705|The mechanisms by which global change alters the genotypic structure of populations by selection remain unclear. Key to this understanding is elucidating genotypephenotype relationships under different environmental conditions as genotypes could differ in their plasticity or in their tolerance to changing environmental conditions. We have previously observed selection of certain genotypes of the dominant C4 grass Andropogon gerardii L. within the on-going Rainfall Manipulation Plots (RaMPs) experiment at Konza Prairie Biological Station in Kansas. The RaMPs experiment has been experimentally imposing ambient and more variable (altered) precipitation patterns since 1998. Here, we studied phenotypic differences among six genotypes to gain insight into what drove the pattern of selection previously observed and assess potential genotype  environmental interactions. In 2008 and 2009 we sampled individuals of genotypes in the RaMPs and within unmanipulated reference plots located adjacent to the RaMPs experiment. For each individual, we measured both leaf-level (specific leaf area, stomatal conductance) and whole-plant growth (height, biomass) traits. We consistently detected differences among genotypes in the reference plots. Additionally, when focusing on two genotypes found in the altered and ambient RaMPs we observed no genotype  environment interactions. Overall, we found in an intact population of A. gerardii there exists phenotypic variability among genotypes, but no genotype  environment interactions. Thus our results demonstrate that differences in plasticity of genotypes do no explain the pattern of selection we observed.
20051162|Disturbances are common phenomena that occurs in nature and significantly affects the dynamics of vegetation and plant populations. This paper shows that despite considerable progress in the theory of disturbances, for different authors the notion of disturbance has different meanings. The differences follow from an alternative understanding of the term, assumption of the holistic or reductionistic concept of the study or different approaches to equilibrium and non-equilibrium in nature. Different theoretical and methodological assumptions taken when analysing vegetation changes under the effect of disturbances allow relative arbitrariness in the interpretation of results. However, not all biotic interactions and ecological processes taking place in plant communities can be identified as disturbances. The effects of disturbances should be described on the basis of an objective assessment of what is normal for the functioning and stabilisation of a community as well as what disturbs and disrupts this equilibrium. Moreover, assuming the equivalent treatment of ecological systems, the interaction of the disturbing factors should be related to a specific level of life organisation (an individual, population or community), which would permit unambiguous discernment of the disturbance effects and finally generalise its effects on different levels of the hierarchical structure of vegetation.
20050911|The relation between pollen and climate is commonly computed by regressing the climatical factor. The disadvantage of this method is that it does not respect the ordinal and intermittent nature of field data. This paper overcomes the artefacts created by this problem by using a probabilist calibration, that quantifies the ecological linkage between a taxon T and a factor with a general parameter, the probability PROX for an abundance A being confined near the rank F of the factor. Confining simulates the effect of the factor upon the concentration of presences and ordering of abundances, and calibrates the climatical behaviour of a taxon with the set of PROX for all possible pairs (A,F). It summarizes a behaviour with the probable position of each abundance A in the range of the factor. Calibration was applied to 130 pollen taxa observed in a network of 80 standardized annual aeropollinic spectra. Spectra were mostly from France, the rest being from a transect stretching from Sweden to Algeria. Spectra were characterized by the values of 10 climatic factors, as well as the presence and abundance of 130 pollen taxa. The influence of geographical climate differences upon pollen content in the atmosphere was quantified by comparing the spectra. Pairs from different localities but the same year were compared. The reliability of indicator taxa was tested by estimating the climate in the 80 spectra using calibration. For all the taxa observed in a spectrum, the envelope of confinings generally followed an unimodal gradient, whose mode was the probable position of the spectrum. Reliability of the estimate was measured by its accuracy, being the agreement between estimates and measures; and by its stability, being the agreement between two estimates from the same climate according to two different flora (the two halves of a spectrum for instance). Average accuracy was 72%, and average stability 87%.
20050720|The acoustic emission rate (as a result of xylem cavitation), stem water content, stomatal conductance, and leaf water potential of heather (Calluna vulgaris L. Hull) were compared over a period of 18 months at two contrasting sites in Britain. The sites were Thursely Common in south-east England, and Flanders Moss in central Scotland (average rainfall of 600 mm per year and 1500 mm per year, respectively). In the first year of study (1992) the natural difference between the sites was amplified by a severe drought affecting south-east England. The relative water content of the xylem (RWC) did not differ between the sites, and did not fluctuate seasonally, despite the drought at Thursely. Acoustic emissions were detected at both sites, but the incidence was low. The same range of foliage water potential and stomatal conductance was found at both sites. The leaf area to sapwood area ratio at the dry site was half that at the wet site, and it is suggested that this adjustment of the transpiring area relative to the water conducting area facilitates the close physiological state of the plants at the two sites. The possible occurrence of aerial refilling and freezing induced xylem cavitation is also discussed.
40305633|In Europe, forests have been strongly influenced by human land-use for millennia. Here, we studied the importance of anthropogenic historical factors as determinants of understorey species distributions in a 967 ha Danish forest complex using 156 randomly placed 100-m plots, 15 environmental, 9 spatial, and 5 historical variables, and principal components analysis (PCA), redundancy analysis (RDA) as well as indicator species analysis. The historical variables were status as ancient (1805 AD) high forest, reclaimed bogs,  100 m from Bronze Age burial mounds, or former conifer plantation, and stand age. The PCA results showed that the main gradients in species composition were strongly related to the explanatory variables. Forward variable selection and variation partitioning using RDA showed that although modern environment was the dominant driver of species composition, anthropogenic historical factors were also important. The pure historical variation fraction constituted 13% of the variation explained. The RDA results showed that ancient-forest status and, secondarily, reclaimed bog status were the only significant historical variables. Many typical forest interior species, with poor dispersal and a strong literature record as ancient-forest species, were still concentrated in areas that were high forest in 1805. Among the younger forests, there were clear floristic differences between those on reclaimed bogs and those not. Apparently remnant populations of wet-soil plants were still present in the reclaimed bog areas. Our results emphasize the importance of historical factors for understanding modern vegetation patterns in forested landscapes.
20050537|We analyzed soil water data from three sites with different soil textures in the shortgrass steppe of northeastern Colorado, USA. Our objective was to evaluate the relationship between the occurrence of plant functional types and the effect of soil texture on soil water availability. Soil water availability was greatest in the upper soil layers at all three sites, but the loamy sand site had significantly greater soil water availability than the sandy clay loam and sandy clay sites in wetter years at depths below 60 cm. Calculations of proportional water availability by layer using both field data and fifty-year soil water model simulations, showed that the sandy clay loam and sandy clay soils on average had greater water availability in layers 30 cm and above, but that the loamy sand had the greatest water availability in layers beneath this, particularly at 105 cm. This observation can be linked to the occurrence of a fine textured subsoil at this site. The textural pattern in the loamy sand profile effectively creates two water resources: a shallow pool accessible to all plants; and a deep pool accessible only to deep-rooted plants. This is offered as an explanation for the co-dominance of the two main plant functional types at the loamy sand site. At the other two sites, shallow-rooted shortgrass vegetation dominated, being more consistent with the general pattern for the area. Thus the patterns of vegetation structure at the three sites were consistent with the hypothesis. Aboveground net primary production data for the three sites, along with transpiration estimates from the model simulations, indicated that the additional water availability in the coarse textured soil was associated with higher overall plant productivity.
40305502|Seed dispersal via ingestion and defecation by large herbivores (endozoochory) plays a potentially important role in structuring plant communities. In the present study we tested whether cattle disperse seeds between different plant communities in a heterogeneous coastal habitat. We surveyed the seed contents of cattle dung collected from two habitat types within a grazing system, one in dunes and the other in saltmarsh. The dunes are characterized by sandy soil, and infrequent inundation by the sea, whereas the salt-marsh features clay deposited during inundations. Seeds of both salt-marsh and dune species were dispersed into salt-marsh and dune habitats. The seed content of cattle dung collected in salt-marsh and dunes was similar with respect to species composition and seed density. However, dispersal of dune species into salt-marsh and vice-versa did not result in establishment in those communities. Seed traits per se did not differ between dune species and saltmarsh species. Species abundance in the established vegetation and seed density in dung were positively correlated. Seed abundance for most species found in dung was consistent with the availability of viable seeds during the growing season. Seed mass, seed ' roundness' and seed release height were all negatively correlated with seed numbers in dung. An indirect factor, namely, forage quality of the plant, and hence attractiveness for herbivores, could explain the higher likelihood of seed dispersal of salt-marsh species than of dune species. The salt-marsh harbours species with higher forage quality than the dune species, as derived from Ellenberg nitrogen indicator values.
20146798|Patterns of community development vary among studied glacier forelands around the world. However, there have been few studies of primary succession on glacial forelands in temperate regions of North America. We described patterns in community composition, vegetation cover, diversity, and vegetation heterogeneity during primary succession on the foreland of Coleman Glacier, in Washington State, USA. Community composition changed rapidly with high turnover between age classes. Cover increased through succession as expected. Species richness and diversity were highest in early succession at small scales and in late succession at larger scales. At small scales, heterogeneity decreased in early succession but increased in mature sites. At larger scales, heterogeneity reached its lowest point earlier in succession. These scale-dependent patterns in diversity and heterogeneity differ from results of other studies of glacier forelands. We hypothesize that these patterns arise due to the development of a dense canopy of the deciduous shrub Alnus viridis followed by a dense canopy of Abies amabilis, Tsuga heterophylla, and Pseudotsuga menziesii.
20146677|Given the role of Scaevola plumieri as a major pioneer species in the dune environment, as well as the need for indigenous sand stabilisers for South Africa's coastal dunes, the reproductive phenology was unravelled as a first step to establish the potential usefulness of the species in dune stabilisation programmes. In the highly variable coastal environment the plants must cope with many problems for successful reproduction to take place. The plants of S. plumieri overcome these difficulties through vegetative reproduction, but sexual reproduction is by no means insignificant. Numerous peduncles, each carrying multiple buds, were produced per stem, but only few developed into ripe seeds. Several of the flowers were unfertilised and of the seeds produced many were infected and/or aborted. There was a strong effect of dune position on the reproductive phenology of S. plumieri. The stems situated at the landward face of the foredunes showed an overall higher reproductive performance (number of buds, flowers, unripe seeds, ripe seeds). The phenogram showed that the reproduction of stems at the landward side of the foredunes started on average 34 days earlier and showed a tendency for a longer reproduction period. For the duration of the different stages in the reproduction sequence, the 'bud stage' took the shortest time and the 'ripe seed stage' longest time. Between the different sample years, the production of the number of peduncles, buds, flowers and seeds was the similar; only differences in reproduction time (duration) of the different stages were observed for the bud, flower an unripe seeds stage between the sample years.
40305753|Light is known to regulate conservativegermination strategies and the formation of seed banks.Although these strategies are crucial to survival intundra environmentsespecially for annualslightrequirements for germination in arctic-alpine speciesare seldom investigated. Furthermore, environmentaldifferences between arctic and alpine regions areexpected to lead to evolutionary divergence amongconspecific populations in seed germination strategies.In this study, we report important differences ingermination light requirements among six arctic andalpine populations of the annual Koenigia islandica.Light had little effect on germination of the seeds fromIqaluit (Nunavut, Canada), Yukon (Canada), andJasper (Alberta, Canada), whereas the seeds from themost severe climates, Svalbard (Norway) andColorado (USA), had strong light requirements. Strat-ification of the seeds had little influence on theirgermination light requirements, with the exception ofthe population from Dovre (Norway), in which itinduced a strong light requirement. Possible adaptiveexplanations and some implications of these observedgermination patterns are discussed.I
23500336|Several Prosopis species were introduced into South Africa in the last century. Since then two species, Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana and Prosopis velutina have invaded large parts of arid southern Africa. Here, we examine the extent to which increased mortality of Acacia erioloba, a keystone species in the Kalahari Desert, can be attributed to competition for water with Prosopis. We do this for A. erioloba and Prosopis sp. at invaded, as well as cleared sites through a determination of species abundance, canopy vitality, plant water stress and plant water source. Our stable isotope results show that in the riparian zone both A. erioloba and Prosopis are using the same water source. Our results also show that there is a 50 % increase in canopy dieback of A. erioloba in the invaded river plots relative to the cleared river plots. This dieback cannot be related to changes in rainfall and temperature as there were no adverse fluctuations (drought) in the weather in the 10 years preceding our study. We speculate that because A. erioloba is more water stressed in the invaded river plot this increase in mortality and dieback is related to plant moisture stress that is not related to climate but to competition for water with Prosopis. Our study gives strong support for the eradication of Prosopis from rivers in arid parts of Southern Africa.
20050893|Gas exchange and water relations responses to warming were compared for two shrub species, Artemisia tridentata spp. vaseyana (Asteraceae), a widely distributed evergreen species of the Great Basin and the western slope of the Rocky Mountains, and Pentaphylloides floribunda (Rosaceae), a deciduous shrub limited in distribution to moist, high-elevation meadows. Plants were exposed to an in situ infrared (IR) climate change manipulation at the Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory, near Crested Butte, CO. Measurements of gas exchange and water relations were made on the two species in July and August, 1993 from plants growing in situ in infrared-heated and control plots. Carbon dioxide uptake, water loss, leaf temperature, water use efficiency, and water potential were compared to test the hypothesis that leaf and soil responses to IR will cause leaf level changes in photosynthesis. Photosynthetic CO uptake and water use efficiency increased for A. tridentata (2.9 vs. 1.9 mol
40305674|This study focuses on the effect of fire on lowland heathlands at the extreme southern edge of their European distribution (Vauda Nature Reserve, NW Italy). Forty-nine plots (50 m radius) were surveyed between 1999 and 2006. Each year, fire occurrences were recorded and per cent cover of four vegetation types (grassland, heath, low shrubland, and tall shrubland) was estimated in each plot. Vascular plant species richness was also recorded in 255, 1 m 2 quadrats. After a fire, grassland vegetation expanded, but then declined rapidly as heath and shrubland recovered: 7 years after a fire, tall shrubland encroached on to more than 40% of the plots, and grassland declined from 50% to 20% cover. Between 1999 and 2006, Betula pendula shrubland greatly expanded, while grassland decreased over most of the Reserve, even where fire frequency was high. Tall shrubland had low plant diversity and was dominated by widespread species of lower conservation value. By contrast, early successional vegetation (grassland and low shrubland) had higher richness and more narrowly distributed species, indication that the development of tall shrubland causes significant species loss in the heathland. Italian lowland heathlands are characterized by high rates of shrubland encroachment that threatens both habitat and species diversity. Burning frequencies of once in 3-6 years seem appropriate in this habitat, but burning alone might not suffice without actions to increase herbivore grazing.
41429369|Earthworms and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) have profound impacts on plant performance. However, it is largely unknown if and how earthworms and AMF may affect plant succession. We planted mesocosms with an early-mid successional and a mid-late successional grassland plant community and added endogeic earthworms and commercial AMF in a full-factorial way to natural background soil. Earthworms had a positive effect on the total root and shoot biomass of both plant communities, with the effect on the shoots being slightly enhanced by coinoculation with AMF. Surprisingly, the earthworm effect on the mid successional plant species depended on the successional stage of the plant community. Earthworms had a positive effect on the mid successional plant species when they were growing in the mid-late successional plant community, but no effect when the same plant species were growing in the earlymid successional plant community. Addition of AMF alone tended to reduce the shoot biomass of the early successional plant species, while the addition of earthworms in the presence or absence of AMF increased their shoot biomass. We conclude that the impacts of earthworms on plant species may depend on the successional stage of the plant community, while the effect of AMF addition depends on the successional stage of the plant community and may be changed by the presence of earthworms. Earthworms and AMF addition affect plants and plant communities of different successional stages differently with potential effects on plant succession.
20050899|Tree regeneration outcomes are challenging to generalize and difficult to predict. Many tree species can establish new propagules in a variety of post-disturbance environments and many different reproductive mechanisms may be used. In order to develop conceptual models that accurately reflect reproductive potential, we need a better understanding of the similarities in regeneration ecology among species. We used information from the forest ecology literature to evaluate the reproductive attributes of sixty-two tree species in the central hardwood region of the eastern United States. Each species was classified categorically for features such as flowering, seed production and dispersal, seed dormancy, germination requirements, seedling characteristics, and vegetative reproduction. Cluster analysis (Jaccard's similarity coefficient, complete linkage method) and ordination (homogeneity analysis) were used to separate nine groups (guilds) of species that had similar reproductive attributes. Individual attributes that had high variance in the first and second dimensions included: seed banking, seed dispersal, seedling shade tolerance, and seedbed requirements. Members of each guild had similar levels of reproductive specialization and guilds were either pioneer-like, opportunistic, or persistent. Pioneer guilds included: short-lived or fugitive species that colonize sites rapidly and are too shade intolerant to replace themselves; shade-tolerant species that colonize frequently disturbed sites; and stress-tolerant pioneers that survive on dry or nutrient-poor sites. Opportunistic guilds contained species that are remarkably versatile in their reproductive effort. The most flexible opportunists can colonize new sites, maintain seed in a seed bank, sprout from existing stems and persist as a seedling or sapling bank. Persistent guilds contain species that develop and maintain advance regeneration. These include: species with moderate understory tolerance that regenerate via cycles of dieback and resprouting; and more tolerant species that maintain seedling or sapling banks. Our regeneration guilds may provide a useful approach for more realistically representing large and diverse sets of tree species in forest ecosystem models.
40212968|Tropical forests are suffering from increasing intensities and frequency of disturbances. As a result, non-native species accidentally introduced or intentionally planted for farming, plantations, and ornamental purposes may spread and potentially invade undisturbed native forest. It is not known if these introduced species will become invasive, as a result of recurrent natural disturbances such as hurricanes. Using data from three censuses (spanning 15 years) of a 16-ha subtropical wet forest plot, we investigated the impact of two hurricanes on populations of plant species that were planted in farms and plantations that were then abandoned and from the natural spread of species introduced into Puerto Rico in the past. The populations of four species (Citrus paradis, Mangifera indica, Musa sp., and Simarouba glauca) changed little over time. Six species (Artocarpus altilis, Calophyllum calaba, Genipa americana, Hibiscus pernambucensis, Syzygium jambos, and Swietenia macrophylla) declined between the first two censuses after Hurricane Hugo, then increased again in Census 3 after Hurricane Georges. Spathodea campanulata gradually increased from census to census, while Coffea arabica declined. These introduced species represent only a small part of the forest basal area and few show signs of increasing over time. The number of stems per plant, new recruits, and the growth rates of these introduced species were within the ranges of those for native plant species. The mortality rates over both census intervals were significantly lower for introduced species (<5% year) than for native ones (15% year). Many new recruits established after Hurricane Hugo (prior to this study) had opened the forest canopy and these high mortality rates reflect their death as the canopy recovered. Only Swietenia macrophylla and Syzygium jambos showed an increase in stem numbers in the closed canopy area of forest that had suffered limited human disturbance in the past. A future increase in frequency of disturbance may enable greater stem numbers of introduced species to establish, while lower- mortality rates compared to native species, may allow them to persist during inter- hurricane intervals. An increase in the population of introduced species, especially for those that grow into large trees, may have an impact on this tropical forest in the future.
20050571|The importance of management regime on floristic variation (mosses and vascular plants) in four Danish beech forests was investigated. Sixty-four blocks were sampled, representing beech stands of different age and management types. Nineteen potential explanatory variables were recorded and tested with Monte-Carlo tests and Canonical Correspondence Analysis. In addition results were evaluated by use of Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Explanatory variables were divided into three groups; soil, microclimatic and management parameters. The amount of variation explained by each group of variables was calculated by use of variation partitioning. The group consisting of management variables explained most variation, on local as well as regional scale. Management related variables explained more variation in vegetation than any other variables together. This indicates the importance of management as determining species composition in Danish beech forests. Management related variables explained most variation on local scale. On a regional scale, soil parameters explained the major part of the variation. The results suggest that thirty years without management are sufficient to change species composition significantly, as compared to managed forests.
20051031|The importance of a soil seed bank was evaluated through its role in the recovery of a burnt shrubland. The study was carried out in a heathland characterized by several ericaceous species. Part of the heathland was burnt in a wildfire on 7 April 1991, while the rest was not affected by the fire and used as a control. Soil samples were collected three days after the wildfire, in the absence of rain; 10 samples (20  25 cm width to a depth of 5 cm) were collected from the burnt area and 10 from the control. Samples were set out in a greenhouse where germinating seedlings were recorded, counted and identified for 17 months. Observations were also carried out twice in the field for 14 months after the wildfire by examining two permanent transects in the study area and recording all regenerating species. The results show a low correspondence between soil seed bank and aboveground vegetation: only 23% of the identified taxa appeared both in the bank and in the field observations. From these species 65% of them have dispersal types like autochory or barochory, that is they generally fall near the mother plant. In the identified species as a whole, therophytes and hemicryptophytes dominate in comparison with chamaephytes, phanerophytes and geophytes; this also applied to the herbaceous species in comparison with the woody ones. Potentially soil possesses an important seed bank, which contributes poorly to the vegetation recovery after fire.
40606943|Multifactor ecological classification systems are being developed for many regions. An element of these systems not yet well understood is how disturbances, clearcutting in this instance, may alter the vegetative component of the classification units at the stand and landscape levels. We sampled 1,096 plots in 21-35 year old naturally regenerated clearcuts on the Hoosier National Forest (HNF) in south-central Indiana, USA. We examined overstory species composition of clearcut plots in comparison to reference plots (80+ years old), both within and among six Ecological Landtype Phases (ELTPs) of two ecological sections using non-metric multidimensional scaling and non-metric multi-response permutation procedures. Clearcutting drastically changed species composition in comparison to reference plots within ELTPs ranging from mixed oak-dominated ridges and slopes to bottomland, cove hardwood communities; Quercus species on ridges and slopes were replaced by Liriodendron tulipifera L. and, to a lesser degree, Prunus sertina Ehrh. and Acer rubrum L., in ELTPs of both sections. Contrasts of overstory species composition of reference plots exhibited differences among ELTPs, but clearcut plots showed mixed results and indicated very similar species composition across all ELTPs. Autogenic factors are likely the main drivers of overstory composition of clearcut sites. Species composition of ELTPs will continue to develop in response to autogenic and allogenic factors over time, and differences among ELTPs may emerge in later stages of stand development as the effects of allogenic factors accumulate. It is expected that L. tulipifera, a long-lived species, will be a dominant species in terms of basal area and density of all ELTPs in mature stands. Classification systems not designed to deal with changes related to disturbance and a failure to predict successional pathways after disturbance may limit their usefulness as a management tool in terms of overstory vegetation. For ecological classification systems to be fully effective, we must better understand the role of disturbance in ecosystem function at many different scales and integrate that knowledge into our decisionmaking and planning regimes to establish realistic and attainable objectives at multiple scales.
23267384|The growth of hummock Sphagnum species in bogs depends on hydrological and climatic conditions, with different hummock morphologies being found across geographical regions. We investigated how plant shade and winter snow-load regulate the growth pattern and height of Sphagnum papillosum hummocks in a cool-temperate bog in Japan. Hummocks were subjected to four treatments across 2 years (1 hummock per treatment per year): no treatment (control), snow-load-free (S), vascular plant trimming (T), and snow-load-free and vascular plant trimming in combination (S&T). Further, the effects of vascular plant cover and snow -load on the vertical growth and height of hummocks were examined. Annual growth rates of S. papillosum were higher for the control (3441 mm) than S&T treatment, and were intermediate for separate S and T treatments. In contrast to vascular plant-growing hummocks, vascular plant-trimmed hummocks showed a negative correlation between water-table depth (measured from the capitulum to the water-table) and Sphagnum growth. Hence, in summer, shading by vascular plants may prevent desiccation and facilitate the growth of Sphagnum. Snow-loaded hummocks were weighed down by 311 cm. After snowmelt, the shoots continued to grow within the water-table depth range that allowed growth. Hence, heavy winter snow-loads may depress the surfaces of hummocks closer to the water-table, which stimulates Sphagnum growth, resulting in the recovery of hummock height. Thus, the water stress caused by summer desiccation is critical in regulating the upper limit of hummock height in bogs subject to dry summer conditions and heavy winter snowfall.
41508843|Differences in resource acquisition between native and exotic plants is one hypothesis to explain invasive plant success. Mechanisms include greater resource acquisition rates and greater plasticity in resource acquisition by invasive exotic species compared to non-invasive natives. We assess the support for these mechanisms by comparing nitrate acquisition and growth of invasive annual and perennial grass seedlings in western North America. Two invasive exotic grasses (Bromus tectorum and Taeniatherum caput-medusae) and three perennial native and exotic grasses (Pseudoroegneria spicata, Elymus elymoides, and Agropyron cristatum) were grown at various temperatures typical of autumn and springtime when resource are abundant and dominance is determined by rapid growth and acquisition of resources. Bromus tectorum and perennial grasses had similar rates of nitrate acquisition at low temperature, but acquisition by B. tectorum significantly exceeded perennial grasses at higher temperature. Consequently, B. tectorum had the highest acquisition plasticity, showcasing its ability to take advantage of transient warm periods in autumn and spring. Nitrate acquisition by perennial grasses was limited either by root production or rate of acquisition per unit root mass, suggesting a trade-off between nutrient acquisition and allocation of growth to structural tissues. Our results indicate the importance of plasticity in resource acquisition when temperatures are warm such as following autumn emergence by B. tectorum. Highly flexible and opportunistic nitrate acquisition appears to be a mechanism whereby invasive annual grasses exploit soil nitrogen that perennials cannot use.
20050913|We present a graphic model that explores the effect of distance between parent plants on seed predation and seedling recruitment. Based on the assumption that distance between parents may affect the shape of the seed shadow, the model predicts that seed predators may affect seedling recruitment curves under isolated plants but they are unable to affect these curves under close parent plants. The predictions of the model are tested experimentally in Cryptocarya alba (Lauraceae), a common tree of the Mediterranean forest, Central Chile. Results show that predictions are not met under isolated parent plants. Although seed density decreases significantly away from parent plants, this effect is not relevant for seed predation and seedling recruitment. The biotic/abiotic contrast existing under the canopy vs outside the canopy, plus the shade-tolerance of this tree, better explains the seedling recruitment observed under isolated parent plants. Nevertheless, the predictions of the model are corroborated under close parent plants. Seed shadows overlap to the extent that they generate a homogeneous seed distribution, homogeneous seed predation and homogeneous seedling recruitment as well. We discuss the implications of the model in terms of the spatial pattern of seedlings and the benefits of dispersal from isolated and close parent plants.
20146705|Inhibition of canopy tree recruitment beneath thickets of the evergreen shrubs Rhododendron maximum L. and Kalmia latifolia L. has long been observed in Southern Appalachian forests, yet the mechanisms of this process remain unresolved. We present a first-year account of suppression of oak seedlings in relation to Rhododendron and Kalmia basal area, light and resource availability, seedling performance and the rates of seedling damage (i.e., herbivory). We found no evidence of first-year seedling suppression or significant resource deficiencies beneath thickets of K. latifolia in mature mixed hardwood stands. Suppression beneath R. maximum was apparent during the first growing season. We found that seedling biomass, light availability prior to canopy closure, and seedling tissue C:N ratios were negatively correlated with R. maximum basal area. Basal area of R. maximum was positively correlated with seedling mortality rates, soil [Al], and early-growing season leaf herbivory rates. Seedling growth was positively correlated with light and tissue C:N, while negatively correlated with soil [Al]. Overall, our results support the inhibition model of shade-mediated carbon limitation beneath dense understory shrubs and indicate the potential importance of herbivory and aluminum toxicity as components of a suppression mechanism beneath R. maximum thickets. We present a causal model of first year inhibition beneath R. maximum in the context of our findings and the results of prior studies.
20146670|We examined two ways in which species effects on nitrogen supply rates could influence species competitive interactions and lead to coexistence between species with very different patterns of resource use. First, through differential effects on the rates of resource cycling, species may modify resources in divergent directions to better tolerate neighbors under self-modified conditions (tolerance modification). Second, plant-induced shifts in resource supply could enhance the degree to which species can suppress individuals (suppression modification). We addressed these hypothesized mechanisms in the non-successional moist meadow alpine tundra, which is codominated by Acomastylis rosii, a slow-growing roseaceous forb with high nutrient retention that is associated with slow rates of nitrogen supply, and Deschampsia caespitosa, a graminoid with rapid growth potential that is associated with fast rates of nitrogen (N) supply. Neighbors inhibited Acomastylis transplants (the species with high N retention) less than Deschampsia transplants (the species with rapid potential growth) in both neighborhood types, and hence neighborhood type did not influence species tolerance to neighbors. Likewise, Acomastylis neighborhoods inhibited transplant growth more than Deschampsia neighborhoods regardless of transplant species identity. When N supply rates were enhanced through repeated N additions in the two neighborhood types or in the presence of each species' litter, the inhibitory effects associated with Acomastylis were offset to a greater degree than those associated with Deschampsia, as predicted by the suppression modification. These effects appeared to be density or size-dependent, with few effects observed at low density. Our results suggest that species effects on supply rates may influence competitive interactions, particularly if these effects are complemented by other sources of temporal or spatial variation such as pulses in resource availability.
40305734|Eupatorium adenophorum is one of the more noxious invasive plants worldwide. However, the mechanisms underlying its invasiveness are still not well elucidated. In this study, we compared the invader with its two native congeners (E. heterophyllum and E. japonicum) at four irradiances in terms of growth, biomass allocation, morphology, and photosynthesis. The higher light-saturated photosynthetic rate
20146385| Contrasting soil conditions caused by different inundation frequencies require different root growth strategies along the elevational gradient of coastal salt marshes. The objective of this study was to examine (1) if root lifespan was shorter in Elymus pycnanthus, a relatively fast-growing competitive species dominating high marshes, than in Spartina anglica, a relatively slow-growing stress-tolerating species dominating low marshes, and (2) if the species with longer lifespan had higher tissue density (g cm) and lower specific root length (m g) than the species with shorter lifespan. Root production and mortality rates were established by sampling roots in in-growth cores, and using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining to distinguish vital from dead roots. Root lifespan was estimated by dividing the living root biomass (Elymus: 36 g m, Spartina: 100 g m) by root production (Elymus: 0.28 g day m, Spartina: 0.25 g day m) or root mortality rates (Elymus: 0.42-0.53 g day m). Spartina did not exhibit substantial mortality. Despite the present method only yielding rough estimates of average root lifespan, it is evident that root longevity is much shorter in Elymus than in Spartina. Root lifespan ranged between 10-19 weeks for Elymus but was close to 1 year in Spartina, indicating that Elymus replaces it's roots continuously throughout the growing season, whereas Spartina maintains its roots over the growing season. Fine roots of Elymus had slightly lower tissue density (0.094) than those of Spartina (0.139), whereas coarse roots of Elymus and Spartina had similar tissue density (0.100 g cm). Fine roots of Elymus and Spartina had similar specific root length (195 m g). However, coarse roots of Elymus (50 m g) had higher specific root length than those of Spartina (20 m g) due to having smaller root diameter (Elymus: 548 m, Spartina: 961 m). We conclude that present observations on Elymus and Spartina support our first hypothesis that the 'competitive' species from the high marsh had short-lived roots compared to the 'stress-tolerating' species from the low marsh. However, our result provide only weak support for the existence of a positive correlation between root longevity and tissue density and a negative correlation between root longevity and specific root length. 
40540328|Studies of Ficus reproductive phenology have focused on documenting its seasonality and dependence on meteorological factors. While there have been reports that duration of receptivity of syconia can be prolonged in response to pollinator limitation, the effect of pollination rate on the duration of phenological phases over a year has not been examined. Percentage of unpollinated syconia, number of foundresses per pollinated syconium, duration of receptivity, frequency of single-sex broods, crop size, frequency of parasitisation, persistence of ripe syconia, and mass abscission were recorded for Ficus superba at the crop level. Percentage of unpollinated syconia is significantly negatively correlated with the number of foundresses per syconium, and positively correlated with the duration of receptivity, and the persistence of ripe syconia. Despite the absence of sesonality in reproduction, the occurrences of receptive syconia and ripe syconia showed unimodal and bimodal peaks, respectively, owing to prolongment of these phases. This is attributable to meteorological factors, which are hypothesized to influence pollinator dispersal, or population dynamics, and thus pollination rate. This highlights the overlooked significance of pollinator, and possibly frugivore phenology in accounting for Ficus reproduction, and suggests that while reproduction may be aseasonal, reproductive potential may not be. Furthermore, crop size was shown to affect the number of foundresses per syconium, duration of receptivity, and persistence of ripe syconia. Possible adaptive value of producing crops of different sizes is discussed.
40305568|We used tree-ring reconstruction data to study changes in the spatial pattern of live and dead trees at an annual resolution over a 50-year period at four unmanaged, even-aged fire origin jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) stands in Saskatchewan and Manitoba, Canada. Previous studies of the spatial pattern in P. banksiana have either looked at only a snapshot from a survey done at a single point in time, or repeated measurements of permanent plots taken at 10-year intervals. With annual data, we could examine detailed changes in spatial patterns and relate these to events during stand development and external disturbances. Trees were initially clustered at all sites, but at different distances at each site, most likely because of variability in seedbed distribution at stand initiation. Clustering disappeared over time at all sites, and at a similar mean tree spacing at each site. However, significant regularity only appeared sporadically at one site, indicating that competition with neighbours was not the only factor influencing changes in spatial pattern. At two of the four sites, clustering disappeared suddenly at the same time that mortality rate reached a peak, in one case also coinciding with a jack pine budworm (Choristoneura pinus pinus Freeman) defoliation event. Dead trees were also initially more clustered than the distribution of all trees, but at different distances than the clustering of live trees. This also disappeared over time so that dead trees were eventually a random sample from the distribution of all trees. After the peak of mortality had passed, factors other than competition were determining the dynamics of these forests.
41686807|Wood density can be considered an adaptive trait, because it ensures the safe and efficient transport of water from the roots to the leaves, mechanical support for the body of the plant and the storage of biological chemicals. Its variability has been extensively described in narrow genetic backgrounds and in wide ranges of forest tree species, but little is known about the extent of natural genetic and phenotypic variability within species. This information is essential to our understanding of the evolutionary forces that have shaped this trait, and for the evaluation of its inclusion in breeding programs. We assessed juvenile wood density, leaf area, total aboveground biomass, and growth in six Pinus pinaster populations of different geographic origins (France, Spain, and Morocco) growing in a provenance-progeny trial. No genetic differentiation was found for wood density, whereas all other traits significantly differed between populations. Heritability of this trait was moderate, with a low additive genetic variance. For retrospective identification of the evolutionary forces acting on juvenile wood density, we compared the distribution of neutral markers (F ST ) and quantitative genetic differentiation (Q ST ). We found that Q ST was significantly lower than F ST , suggesting evolutionary stasis. Furthermore, we did not detect any relationship between juvenile wood density and drought tolerance (resistance to cavitation), suggesting that this trait could not be used as a proxy for drought tolerance at the intraspecific level.
40305719|The evolution of fleshy fruit size, in particular in bird-dispersed plants, is believed to be influenced by the size of seed-dispersing vertebrates through gape limitation. Also, it has been demonstrated that seed size correlates positively with fruit size, especially in single-or few-seeded fruits. However, there is little evidence of current selection pressure by disperser birds on fruit and seed size within populations of a particular plant species. In the present study, this aspect was investigated in guelder rose Viburnum opulus (Caprifoliaceae) fruit consumption by birds in an area in NW Spain. Guelder rose fruits are sub-globose drupes that can exceed 11 mm in width, with a single hard seed of up to 8.5 mm in width. Most of the seeds were dispersed by the robin Erithacus rubecula (gape width < 8 mm) and a small thrush, the song thrush Turdus philomelos (gape width < 11 mm), which swallowed the fruits whole, and some were destroyed by the bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula. Most of the seeds were regurgitated rather than defecated by disperser birds, probably because seed size limited gut processing. The mean size of the ingested seeds was smaller than the mean diameter of Turdus droppings, which in turn was smaller than the mean size of the seeds of the fruits available on the plants. As winter progressed, only larger fruits and seeds remained on the plants (seed and fruit size were positively correlated), and the size of ingested seeds increased. Thus, the largest fruits were consumed less by seed-dispersing birds and were exposed to seed-predators (bullfinches and climbing rodents) for longer. Selection pressure on smaller guelder rose seeds must therefore be effective in the dispersal stage in the study area.
40305717|The availability of soil and pollination resources are main determinants of fitness in many flowering plants, but the degree to which each is limiting and how they interact to affect plant fitness is unknown for many species. We performed resource (water and nutrients) and pollination (open and supplemental) treatments on two species of flowering plants, Ipomopsis aggregata and Linum lewisii, that differed in life-history, and we measured how resource addition affected floral characters, pollination, and reproduction (both male and female function). We separated the direct effects of resources versus indirect effects on female function via changes in pollination using a factorial experiment and path analysis. Resource addition affected I. aggregata and L lewisii differently. Ipomopsis aggregata, a monocarp, responded to fertilization in the year of treatment application, increasing flower production, bloom duration, corolla width, nectar production, aboveground biomass, and pollen receipt relative to control plants. Fertilization also increased total seed production per plant, and hand-pollination increased seeds per fruit in I. aggregata, indicating some degree of pollen limitation of seed production. In contrast, fertilization had no effect on growth or reproductive output in the year of treatment on L lewisii, a perennial, except that fertilization lengthened bloom duration. However, delayed effects of fertilization were seen in the year following treatment, with fertilized plants having greater aboveground biomass, seeds per fruit, and seeds per plant than control plants. In both species, there were no effects of resource addition on male function, and the direct effects of fertilization on female function were relatively stronger than the indirect effects via changes in pollination. Although we studied only two plant species, our results suggest that life-history traits may play an important role in determining the reproductive responses of plants to soil nutrient and pollen additions.
20146394|Invasive plants are often associated with reduced cover of native plants, but rarely has competition between invasives and natives been assessed experimentally. The shrub Lonicera maackii, native to northeastern Asia, has invaded forests and old fields in numerous parts of eastern North America, and is associated with reduced tree seedling density in Ohio forests. A field experiment was conducted to test the effects of established L. maackii on the survival and growth of transplanted native tree species. The experiment examined above-ground competition (by removing L. maackii shoots) and below-ground competition (by trenching around transplanted seedlings). The effects of above-ground competition with L. maackii were generally more important than below-ground competition, though both were detected. Shoot treatment was the key determinant for the survival of all species except P. serotina, whereas trenching only enhanced survival for A. saccharum caged and P. serotina, and only in the shoot removal treatment. For the surviving seedlings, L. maackii shoot removal increased growth of A. saccharum seedlings protected with cages, but actually reduced the growth of unprotected Q. rubra and A. saccharum seedlings, indicating that L. maackii shoots confer some protection from deer browsing. Significant interactions between root and shoot treatment on Q. rubra growth parameters, specifically greatest growth in the shoot present & trenched treatment, is attributed to protection from deer browsing combined with release from below-ground competition. Despite this protective function of L. maackii shoots, the overall effect of this invasive shrub is increased mortality of native tree seedlings, suggesting it impacts the natural regeneration of secondary forests.
41429371|Climate warming will induce changes in Arctic ecosystem carbon balance, but besides climate, nitrogen availability is a critical controlling factor of carbon cycling. It is therefore essential to obtain knowledge on the influence of a changing climate on nitrogen fixation, as this process is the main source of new nitrogen to arctic ecosystems. In order to gain information on future nitrogen fixation rates in a changing climate, we studied the effects of two decades of warming with passive greenhouses, shading with sackcloth, and fertilization with NPK fertilizer on nitrogen fixation rates. To expand the knowledge on species-specific responses, we measured nitrogen fixation associated with two moss species: Hylocomium splendens and Aulacomnium turgidum. Our expectations of decreased nitrogen fixation rates in the fertilizer and shading treatments were met. However, contrary to our expectation of increased nitrogen fixation in the warming treatment, we observed either no change {Hylocomium) or a decrease {Aulacomnium) in fixation in the warmed plots. We hypothesize that this could be due to mossspecific responses or to long-term induced effects of the warming. For example, we observed that the soil temperature increase induced by the warming treatment was low and insignificant as vegetation height and total vascular plant cover of the warmed plots increased, and moss cover decreased. Hence, truly long-term studies lasting more than two decades provide insights on changes in key biogeochemical processes, which differ from more transient responses to warming in the Arctic.
20146637|Mediterranean ecosystems are traditionally influenced by human disturbance. In the mountain chains of southeastern Spain, holm oak forests representing the potential natural vegetation are currently highly fragmented and subjected to extensive grazing by goats and sheep. This grazing activity by large herbivores has important impacts on community structure and dynamics of the remaining remnants because several processes associated with reproduction are affected. The present research analyses the variation of stand structure and regeneration of six forests dominated by Quercus ilex along a gradient of increasing grazing intensity. Stands of higher grazing intensity are characterized by a lower trunk number. Particularly, trees &gt 1.3 m height and diameter classes &lt 20 cm are clearly less represented. In addition, more intensively grazed forests show a highly aggregated dispersion of trees, which might be explained by an increase of clonally produced ramets by silvipastoral use. On the other hand, no Quercus ilex seedlings were found in any of the stands examined, although acorn production was high and did not correlate with grazing intensity. However, grazing clearly influences the quality of acorn harvest. We found a significant negative correlation between acorn length, acorn mass and grazing intensity and a positive correlation between the percentage of aborted acorns, acorn predation and herbivore activity. Thus, management of grazing in holm oak forests must take the high influence that livestock exerts on the regeneration of Quercus ilex into account, and maximum sustainable grazing intensity should be significantly lower than 0.8 animals per ha.
40666627|In water-limited grassland ecosystems, discrete and occasional precipitation events trigger brief but important episodes of biological activity. Differential responses of above-and below-ground biota to precipitation pulses may constrain biogeochemical transformations at the ecosystem scale. We examined the short-term dynamics of the whole ecosystem response to small precipitation events during 2003 and 2004 in a steppe on the Inner Mongolia Plateau. The results indicate that changes in soil moisture occur, with a 1-2 day time lag, only when the amount of precipitation exceeds 3 mm (from day of year [DOY] 120 to DOY 180) or 5 mm (after DOY 180). The interception of the developing plant canopy is a primary reason for the different temporal precipitation threshold. The lower threshold of effective rain is different between Net Ecosystem Exchange (NEE, 3 mm), Ecosystem Respiration (R e , 3 mm) and Gross Ecosystem Production (GEP, 5 mm). The NEE reached a maximum 4-5 days after the end of effective rain events and dropped to 60-70% of the original fluxes after 10 days. However, the drop in GEP was greater than that of NEE and reached 30-50% of the original fluxes after 10-15 days without "effective rainfall." The characteristics of the response time can be attributed to the variation in soil water content and the time of readjusting for the ecological processes after the effective rainfall. In addition, the independent responses of photosynthesis, respiration and evapotranspiration to precipitation probably contributed to this time lag. The results support the hypothesis that the concept of an ecologically significant rainfall event can be developed for an ecosystem.
20051044|Conducting research in forest canopies is accompanied by both opportunities and difficulties. Opportunities occur because the canopy is important in overall forest structure and function, for example in containing a high proportion of species richness, being the site of forest-atmosphere fluxes, and in strongly influencing understory microclimate. However, despite this importance, the canopy has been largely neglected by researchers, until recently. Many difficulties in forest canopy research apparently arise from problems related to access. In a survey of 112 canopy researchers, examples of problems cited include: bias in the selection of study species or sampling locations; difficulties in obtaining adequate replication; problems in collecting data in a three-dimensional, complex environment; logistical constraints in moving between canopy sampling points; and, disturbance, sometimes including interference of the object being studied (i.e., 'demonic intrusion') caused by access. Many of these problems have at least partial solutions. These include: using multiple access techniques to give greater sampling flexibility; identifying appropriate units of replication within the canopy; using ground-operated canopy sampling methods; and, using protocols for unbiased and systematic data collection in three-dimensional sampling space. Designing experimental protocols for work in the canopy requires at the outset the allocation of time and resources for anticipating and overcoming the particular sampling problems associated with the work.
40540378|The establishment of non-native species and the increase in atmospheric CO, in combination, have the ability to alter current ecosystems. Previous studies have shown that invasive species tend to respond more strongly to CO than natives, but these comparisons have been of different and unrelated species. To assess how response to CO might be related to invasiveness per se, we compared a native (Typha latifolia) with a congeneric invasive (Typha angustifolia), as well as their hybrid (T.  glauca). All three taxa are common components of wetland vegetation, often occurring in near monocultures. An open-top chamber experiment was used to examine the effects of elevated and ambient CO concentrations on the three taxa. All three increased rhizome biomass by 40% in elevated CO. Although the absolute increase did not differ among taxa, the invasive T. angustifolia had a much higher proportional response in biomass and photosynthetic rate (45 and 40% respectively). The weaker response of the two larger taxa native T. latifolia (16 and 2%) and hybrid T. x glauca (-4% and -1%) was possibly driven by soil nutrient deficiency, such that they were not able to benefit from increased CO. However, under low nutrients the smaller species T. angustifolia may become more a problematic invader in the future.
40606948|River management practices have altered the hydrological regimes of many rivers and also altered the availability of regeneration niches for riparian species. We investigated the impact of changed hydrological regimes on the sex ratios and the Spatial Segregation of the Sexes (SSS) in the dioecious species Salix myrsinifolia Salisb.phylicifolia L. and S. lapponum L. by studying the free-flowing Vindel River and the regulated Ume River in northern Sweden. We surveyed sex ratios of these species in 12 river reaches on the Vindel River and in 17 reaches on the Ume River. In addition, we surveyed the sex and location above mean river stage of 1,002 individuals across both river systems to investigate the SSS of both species. Cuttings were collected from male and female individuals of S. myrsinifoliaphylicifolia from both rivers and subjected to four different water table regimes in a greenhouse experiment to investigate growth response between the sexes. We found an M/F sex ratio in both river systems similar to the regional norm of 0.62 for S. myrsinifoliaphylicifolia and of 0.42 for S. lapponum. We found no evidence of SSS in either the free-flowing Vindel River or the regulated Ume River. In the greenhouse experiment, hydrological regime had a significant effect on shoot and root dry weight and on root length. Significantly higher shoot dry weights were found in females than in males and significantly different shoot and root dry weights were found between cuttings taken from the two rivers. We concluded that changed hydrological regimes are likely to alter dimensions of the regeneration niche and therefore to influence sex ratios and SSS at an early successional stage, making it difficult to find clear spatial patterns once these species reach maturity and can be sexed.
40212910|Soil seed banks are an important component of plant Community diversity in ephemeral wetlands, allowing many species to persist through unpredictable periods of flood and drought. Spatial Variation of extant Vegetation in such habitats commonly reflects patterns of flood history and often varies predictably between broadly differing hydro-geomorphic habitat types. Here we investigate whether spatial Variation of soil seed banks is similarly controlled by fluvial processes at this scale. Results are presented from a seedling emergence trial using samples collected from a range of habitat types, and at different scales within these, in the ephemeral Narran Lakes System in semi-arid Australia. Composition and structure of soil seed banks varied significantly between habitat types reflecting broad differences in flood frequency. As predicted, germinable seed abundance was found to be highest in intermediately flooded habitats. Variability in soil seed bank composition at a local scale was also found to be influenced by hydrology with greater spatial heterogeneity evident in the river Channel as well as amongst the least frequently inundated riparian and floodplain habitats.
41429066|Fire is a non-selective disturbance that impacts equally plant species that could be selected differentially by livestock. Post-fire recruitment dynamics is an important ecological process that has been barely studied in Patagonian grass species. This work analyzes the effect of fire on seed germination, seedling growth, and survival of Pappostipa speciosa (ex Stipa speciosa) and Festuca pallescens, two dominant perennial grasses from NW Patagonia that differ in palatability. We hypothesized that physical and chemical factors derived from fire differentially affect recruitment of these species. We performed experiments in the field and under laboratory and greenhouse conditions to study the integral effect of fire and of related abiotic factors (i.e., smoke, heat, charcoal, and ash) on different phases of recruitment of both species. Experimental burning promoted P. speciosa emergence over time, but they did not affect F. pallescens total emergence. Experimental burning decreased P. speciosa seedling growth (i.e., few leaves and small size), but they did not affect seedling survival. Smoke from laboratory experiments stimulated P. speciosa germination. Exposing F. pallescens seeds to 120C decreased germination and seedling growth. Fire might act as a selective force on recruitment of both species, as well as changing competitive interactions during postfire regeneration. The effect of fire on the recruitment dynamics of the studied species depended strongly on both intrinsic species characteristics and meteorological conditions.
40666628|Climate and topography are the two key factors influencing vegetation pattern, distribution, and plant growth. Traditionally, studies on the relationship between vegetation and climate rely largely on field data from limited samples. Now, digital elevation model (DEM) and remote sensing data readily provide huge amounts of spatial data on site-specific conditions like elevation, aspect, and climate, while recent development of geographically weighted regression (GWR) analysis facilitates efficient spatial evaluation of interactions among vegetation and site conditions. Using Haihe Catchment as a case study, GWR is applied in establishing spatial relations among leaf area index (LAI; a critical vegetation index from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)) and interpolated climate variables and site conditions including elevation, aspect, and Topographic Wetness Index (TWI). This study suggests that the GWR solution to spatial effect of climate and site conditions on vegetation is much better than ordinary least squares (OLS). In most of the study area, effects of elevation, aspect change from south to north, and precipitation on LAI are positive, while temperature, TWI, and potential evapotranspiration have a negative influence. Spatially, models perform better in places with large spatial variations in LAIprimarily driven by strong spatial variations in temperature and precipitation. On the contrary, the effect of topographic and climatic factors on vegetation is weak in regions with small spatial variations in LAI. This study shows that overall water availability is a determining factor for spatial variations in vegetation.
40802521|Anthropogenic nitrogen (N) inputs in terrestrial ecosystems are higher than those that occur naturally and have been related to global biodiversity loss and altered ecosystem functioning. However, its effects on Mediterranean-type ecosystems, where production is water-limited and N regulated, remain unclear. We conducted a green-house experiment where we evaluated the effects of four simulated scenarios of N pollution (0, 10, 20 and 50 kg N ha year) and two differential water supply regimes on the germination (experiment 1) and early plant establishment (experiment 2) of a seed bank from a semi-arid Mediterranean ecosystem of central Spain. Seed bank density was estimated as 62,374  3,279 seeds m;. Approximately 99.5% of emerged seeds corresponded to only 14 species of a total of 52, the majority of which were the annual forb Sagina aptala. The responses for N treatments were speciesspecific, mainly positive or unimodal, with watering treatments having some interactive effects. N and water supply also affected total and specific productivity; the responses found for N treatments were mainly humpback-shaped and an increased water supply had additive effects on community establishment in terms of total plant biomass. This response was linked to forb responsiveness. Contrary to predictions, grass biomass did not change with N supply; however, grass to forb ratio was affected because of changes in the latter. Overall, these experiments suggest a critical load for plant biomass production and conclude that N and water availability and supply can modify germination and plant establishment. This should be taken into account when analysing the effects of global change on the dynamics of plant communities where annuals are dominant or vegetation must establish from seed following a natural or anthropogenic disturbance regime.
40540381|Mammalian herbivores have the potential to alter the competitive relations of woody species, if consumption is unevenly distributed between species. At elevations above 3,500 m in the southern Ethiopian highlands, vegetation is dominated by Erica arborea and E. trimera. Both species can potentially grow into short trees, but are burnt on a rotation of 6-10 years, and regenerate by re-sprouting from belowground lignotubers. The regenerating scrub is heavily browsed by cattle. We set up browsing exclosures at three burnt sites to quantify the impact of browsing over a 3-year period. When protected from browsing, E. trimera had similar or better height growth than E. arborea, but in browsed vegetation, E. arborea instead grew taller. Browsing was more intense on E. trimera in the first years after fire, indicating a difference in palatability between the species. We checked if browse quality differed, by analysing shoot contents of acid detergent fibre (ADF), protein, phenolics and tannins. Contrary to expectations, the preferred E. trimera contained more ADF, less protein and had a higher tannin activity than E. arborea. Although the vegetative growth of E. arborea is favoured relative to E. trimera under high browsing pressure, rapid change in abundance would not be expected, since short-interval fire will repeatedly eradicate any gains in vegetative growth. However, within the typical fire return interval of less than 10 years, E. trimera barely reach a reproductive state, whereas E. arborea flower profusely. Under the current regime of fire and browsing, this may in the long run be more important than differences in height growth, leading to a gradual increase in the proportion of E. arborea.
20051016|We measured leaf distribution, crown shape, and biomass allocation patterns in open-grown saplings of three tree species (Cedrela odorata, Cordia alliodora, and Hyeronima alchorneoides) that differed in above-ground architecture and successional status. The objectives were to: (1) analyze the relationship between crown structure and biomass allocation in free-growing juveniles and (2) assess whether predictions that relate crown structure and biomass distribution of adult individuals can be applied to noncompeting saplings. Significant differences in crown structure and biomass allocation were found among the three species. Mean dry biomass was 990 g in Cedrela, 665 g, in Cordia, and 1281 g in Hyeronima. Cedrela allocated a greater proportion of biomass into roots than the other two species. We observed no distinct pattern of foliage angle, and no evidence of decrease in crown construction efficiency with tree size. predictions stated by other authors for mature individuals partially explained the relationship between biomass allocation and morphological variables of non-competing saplings. We proposed two alternative biomass allocation patterns: (1) in open conditions saplings of early successional species exhibit structural characteristics more adapted for high light levels than gap-dependent species, and (2) early successional species have lower cost-benefit ratio for biomass construction and higher foliar efficiency than late successional ones. In general, crown morphometric characteristics and biomass distribution patterns of three species studied corresponded with the two proposed patterns.
40305700|The aim of this study is to clarify the role of gardening and agriculture in the introduction of alien vascular plants to the western Mediterranean Basin during the last century. The main country in which this study is based is Spain. However, other countries in the Western Mediterranean Basin also form part of it. These are Portugal, France, Italy and Morocco. Three percentages were calculated. Firstly, the percentage of alien flora was calculated. Then, we calculated the percentages of species introduced as either a consequence of gardening or of agriculture. The figures were based on thirty-four floristic studies carried out in the western Mediterranean Basin between 1904 and 2006. A regression model, in which the explanatory variable is time and the dependent variables are the three percentages mentioned above, was drawn up with the data obtained. The results show the existence of positive correlation between time and the percentages of total exotic flora and the species introduced through gardening (R = 0.64 and 0.56, respectively) and the negative correlation between time and the percentage of alien species introduced through agriculture (R = -0.43). During the last century, the roles of agriculture and gardening as sources of the introduction of exotic flora to the western Mediterranean Basin were reversed. However, in the areas where the socioeconomic scene is more predominantly agrarian, the role of gardening is still limited.
40212928|Relationships between woody plants and grass are typically described at either the stand (100 m) or plant (10 m) spatial resolutions. Descriptions of the Prosopis velutina (mesquite)-grass relationships in the North American Desert Grassland differ between spatial scales: P. velutina often inhibits grass at the stand scale compared to facilitation or neutral relations at the plant scale. We use simultaneous measures of grass density at both spatial resolutions (made at 3 y intervals from 1997 to 2003) to evaluate the influence of the spatial resolution on detecting P. velutina-grass relationships. We confine our observations to the parsimonious conditions of (1) two distinct P. velutina age classes that are exclusive occupants of study sites and (2) total cover of P. velutina was not different between study sites in 2000 and 2003. Thus, total P. velutina cover is constant in those 2 years but P. velutina ages contributing to that cover differed between the study sites. We confirmed the importance of spatial scale because no grass species was related to P. velutina age at the stand scale, but 2 of 5 species were significantly related at the plant scale. Aristida spp. was greater under young than old P. velutina, and Muhlenbergia porteri was greater under old P. velutina. These results suggest that the influence of old P. velutina on grass abundance is restricted to the area under the canopy and does not extend into inter-canopy areas, and therefore the observations at the stand scale may not detect the P. velutina-grass relationships at the plant scale.
20050956|In an effort to develop more holistic ecosystem approaches to resource assessment and management, landscapes need to be stratified into homogeneous geographic regions. These regions can then be used in a monitoring framework to develop reliable estimates of ecosystem productivity. A regional characterization of the woodland biome has been developed for South Africa, delineated by satellite imagery and using environmental data and a rigorous statistical methodology. Distribution maps of key environmental variables are analyzed by factor analysis, an iterative clustering technique and maximum likelihood classification to quantify and identify homogeneous physio-climatic units. A spatial clustering technique was used to identify regions, which are statistically different with regard to five physiographic, climatic and edaphic variables deemed important within southern African savanna woodlands. The woodland biome of South Africa at 1km resolution was successively divided. Thirty year mean monthly temperature, total plant-available water balance of soil, elevation, landscape topographic position, and landscape soil fertility were used as input classification variables. The map data were submitted to a factor analysis and varimax axis rotation. The factor analysis removes correlations from the input variables, reduces the dimensionality, and normalizes the axis measurements. A cluster analysis was performed on the three principal factor scores using a modified iterative optimization clustering procedure to determine the finest level of classes statistically permitable. Twenty-seven identified unimodal cluster signatures were then submitted to a maximum likelihood classification where the statistical probability of the GIS cell assignment is carried out to determine class membership. The final map of custom physio-climatic regions is described, and these custom regions are compared with a vegetation potential map of the woodland types identified in the South African summer rainfall zone.
40802526|Grassland ecosystems evolved with natural disturbance events on multiple spatial scales in which focal, fine-scale soil disturbance by animals often was imbedded within large-scale grazing disturbance. The resulting plant communities adapted to both broad-scale and fine-scale disturbance that resulted in species-rich plant communities. These natural disturbance regimes have been largely replaced by anthropogenic disturbance. While we generally understand grassland response to modern grazing practices, we know much less about plant community response to soil disturbance imbedded within non-focal grazing. Therefore, we used a tracked vehicle to focally disturb soil in a North American mesic mixed prairie that was either undisturbed prairie or prairie with a recent history of disturbance from either grazing or haying. Successional trajectory and recovery time following focal soil disturbance was similar between grazed and hayed plant communities. Species composition did not differ (P < 0.05) between grazed or hayed prairie and the respective undisturbed prairie. Plant species richness and bare ground increased (P < 0.05) following focal soil disturbance in both grazed and hayed communities, but focal soil disturbance combined with either grazing or haying did not change either plant species richness or bare ground more than (P > 0.05) focal soil disturbance alone. Also, the effect of focal soil disturbance was shortlived with recovery in two growing seasons. Our results suggest that anthropogenic focal soil disturbance is a reasonable mechanism to restore soil disturbance to the grassland ecosystem.
20050570|This study tested whether differences in species abundance at an infertile site could be explained by differences in the species' plant traits. Nine traits were chosen for the analysis based on results of previous studies conducted across soil fertility gradients. The traits were measured for each of seven herbaceous species whose abundance ranged from 5% to 100% of locations occupied in a ridgetop habitat. Using linear regression, significant relationships were found between species relative abundance and each of five traits. In these relationships, a trait explained between 69% and 88% of interspecific variation in abundance. Relatively abundant species had a slower growth rate, smaller shoot mass, higher root to shoot ratio, slower loss of leaf tissue to herbivores and higher infection of roots by mycorrhizal fungi than less abundant species. Using three of these five traits (i.e. shoot mass, mycorrhizal infection and loss of leaf tissue to herbivores) as independent variables in a multiple regression equation explained 99% of interspecific variation in abundance. The latter result indicates that species relative abundance can be explained for a single habitat by choosing traits found to be related to species abundance in previous gradient studies. However, not every trait chosen was significantly related to species abundance. Therefore, a large number of traits may have to be chosen initially to ensure that some subset of these traits can explain species relative abundance.
24552027|Plantsoil feedbacks can exacerbate competition between invasive and native species, although the net effect of the interaction between soil biota and competition is likely to be species-specific. Very few studies have addressed the combined effect of soil and competition on plant performance and invasion by exotic woody species. This study explores plant growth and competition between Acacia dealbata and Pinus pinaster in three different soilsnative, disturbed and invadedin Portugal. The invasion of native P. pinaster forests by A. dealbata can be explained by the stronger competition ability of the exotic tree species. Competition is stronger in the native soil, allowing the establishment of A. dealbata in this soil and the displacement of P. pinaster. During invasion, A. dealbata changes soil conditions and establishes positive plantsoil feedbacks that promote its own germination and growth and increase P. pinaster mortality. Soil disturbance by the introduction of a different exotic species, Eucalyptus globulus, did not promote invasion by A. dealbata. We found a significant effect of soil legacy on both growth and competitive ability of the invasive A. dealbata. The ability of A. dealbata to outcompete the native P. pinaster in its own soil and the positive plantsoil feedbacks established after invasion are important mechanisms for A. dealbata invasion.
40305793|Structural and floristic changes of a fireprotected cerrado sensu stricto are described over a 13-year period. The study site is located in a biological reserve (2,800 ha) surrounded by large Pinus spp. and Eucalyptus spp. plantations (36,000 ha), in southwestern Bahia, Brazil. The region occurs in the outer-core of the Cerrado domain, near the Cerrado-Caatinga ecotone, and is mainly occupied by pasture and cropland. Surveys were carried out in 1991 and 2004 in 13 permanent plots (20 x 50 m). Stems with diameter  5 cm at 0.30 m above ground level were identified and measured. Floristic changes were significant (Srenseris index = 0.45). Species number rose from 62 to 84 (35.48%). Alpha diversity increased significantly (P > 0.001). New species migrated to the area, and there was an expansion of many fire-sensitive species. Woody layer expanded, increasing 19.09% in density and 14.93% in basal area. Diameter distributions followed a "reversed-j" pattern on both occasions, but differed (P > 0.05) due to a significant increase in the first two size-classes, indicating a high recruitment. Community dynamics was high and had a positive balance between recruitment (3.72% yr ) and mortality (1.93% yr ). Conversely, mean annual increment was very small, 0.096 cm yr (SD = 0.14; AT = 808). Most species, including many dominant ones, had a positive balance in favor of recruitment and low turnover, indicating that although species immigration rate is high (1.42 spp ha" 1 ), structural changes in species composition happens at a much slower pace. The surrounding forest plantations are permeable and do not limit species immigration; and may be connecting the reserve with the larger neighboring natural fragments, providing an abundant source for diaspores, and possibly neutralizing any fragmentation effects. Succession is also influenced by the ecotonal condition. The structure and floristics of the cerrado sensu stricto at this site (under present climatic conditions) is fire-dependent.
20146393|Garden experiments focused on vegetative regeneration were carried out with four invasive taxa of the genus Reynoutria (R. japonica var. japonica, R. japonica var. compacta, R. sachalinensis and a hybrid between R. sachalinensis and R. japonica var. japonica, R. bohemica). Regeneration ability of stems and rhizomes, timing of shoot emergence and biomass production were studied under the following treatments: laid horizontally on the soil surface; placed upright; buried in the soil; floating in water. Two different soils (sand and garden loam) representing contrasting nutrient levels were applied. Differences were found in the capability and speed of regeneration, as well as in the quality of shoots produced. Regeneration from stems was less efficient than that from rhizomes in all taxa except R. sachalinensis. R. bohemica exhibits higher regeneration potential (61%) than all other taxa and can be considered as the most successful taxon of the Czech representatives of the genus Reynoutria in terms of regeneration and establishment of new shoots. High regeneration capacity was also exhibited by R. japonica var. compacta (52%). Other taxa showed generally lower regeneration rates (R. japonica var. japonica 39% and R. sachalinensis 21%), but under some treatments the percentage of regenerated segments was high, too. R. japonica var. japonica rhizomes regenerated successfully in all three soil treatments but not in the water. An opposite pattern was found for its stems: they regenerated well if exposed to water treatment but in the soil, they did not regenerate at all. Particular taxa responded to the soil type in a contrasting way. R. sachalinensis and R. bohemica regenerated better in loam while the opposite was true in R. japonica var. japonica. R. japonica var. compacta produced the tallest and R. bohemica the heaviest and most robust shoots. It is concluded that rhizomes are more crucial than stems for the spread of knotweeds through fragmentation and clonal growth, suggesting the importance of soil disturbance.
20050443|This paper investigates the rates of peat accumulation associated with different phases in the succession from open water to carr forest in shallow ponds created by peat dredging in The Netherlands. Four phases had been recognized in a previous study of aerial photographs for the period 1937-1990, i.e. open water (Aq), reed swamp (SA), brownmoss quaking fen (BM) and carr forest (CF). Peat accumulation rates were estimated by relating the amounts of organic matter stored to the data on the successional history for 21 different sites. The organic matter accumulation rates were highest in the SA phase (
20050505|Trientalis europaea plants were subjected to four levels of nutrient availability to test two hypotheses: (1) Clonal morphology of pseudoannuals with short-lived rhizomes is responsive to nutrient availability in terms of spacer length (a negative correlation expected) and branching intensity (a positive correlation expected), and (2) the size of the hibernacles of T. europaea shows a positive correlation with nutrient availability. The results support the first hypothesis, since the primary spacers of T. europaea were longer at lower nutrient levels while the branching intensity of the primary rhizomes increased at increasing nutrient supply. The second hypothesis was not confirmed, however; the plants produced fewer, but bigger hibernacles at lower levels of nutrient availability. The ecological significance of the results is discussed in the context of foraging for essential resources and habitat-related effects of hibernacle size on survival and establishment chances of daughter ramets.
41508681|As common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia L.) spreads across Europe and other regions, it is becoming both a health and an economic threat. To better understand which environmental conditions facilitate the spread of the invasive species, in 2010, a greenhouse experiment was conducted determining the effects of various nitrogen levels (10, 50 and 100 kg N/ha), soil moisture level (low and high) and competition levels (no competition, medium competition and high competition) on the growth parameters of ragweed. Single-grown ragweed responded favourably to the medium nitrogen and water increase, whereas the ragweed growth parameters in competition stands increased only when high levels of nitrogen and water were added. High competition reduced the total dry matter of ragweed by up to 83%, but the ragweed continued to increase its relative growth rate during the full-flowering stage and allocate its dry matter to reproductive parts, producing up to 70 seeds per plant. Ragweed is a poor competitor when there is high resource availability; however, under disturbance and in the shortage of nutrients and water conditions, the intensity of competition decreases and the ragweed performance is minimally affected. The addition of medium levels of nitrogen to promote the growth of competitive species, prevention of disturbance and establishment of plant communities with stress-tolerant species is measures that should help to prevent the further spread of ragweed.
40305496|It was empirically showed that seed size and life history correlate with the formation of a soil seed bank. Although no empirical data are available that indicate a close relationship between seed dormancy and the soil seed bank, dormancy has been considered essential to the formation of a soil seed bank. I have considered the formation of the soil seed bank and survival of seeds for more than a year in the soil, and the persistence and survival of the seed bank for more than 5 years. These periods were derived from the definition of a persistent seed bank and the criterion for seed banks of long-term persistence. Plant traits that are closely related to the formation or persistence of a seed bank and their relationships to dormancy were analysed using two pre-existing databases of seed longevity in soil and comparative ecology. The integrated database comprised 18 plant traits and seed bank formation or persistence data. This approach was used to identify more reliable general empirical rules. The results of a regression tree analysis and common statistical tests of plant traits indicated that only life history and seed size were closely related to seed bank formation, and dormancy was not essential for the formation and persistence of a seed bank. However, the contribution of dormancy differed slightly between dormancy types. Scarification or dry storage requirements to break dormancy slightly enhanced the formation and persistence of a seed bank, whereas a chilling requirement decreased the formation and persistence of a seed bank. In contrast, fluctuating temperature requirements clearly contributed to the formation and persistence of a seed bank.
40212946|Seed predation may cause important seed losses in plant populations, but its impact on the dynamics of populations will depend on the degree of seed or microsite limitations for recruitment. Seed losses will only affect recruitment if it is seed limited. The nature of recruitment limitation (seeds or microsites) is usually ascribed to whole plant populations but it may vary within populations among microhabitats and habitats. Thus, the potential impact of seed predation will also vary within the population, being highest where recruitment is seed limited. The impact to the whole population will depend on the spatial concordance between the intensity of seed predation and that of seed limitation. Recruitment limitations (with seed addition experiments), seed predation (with seed removal experiments), and the dynamics of seed availability in the soil (with soil samples taken both after seed dispersal and before the following dispersal event) of the shrub Corema album (Empetraceae) were investigated in dunes in NW Spain, at microhabitats 'open ground', 'underneath C. album , and 'underneath C. album ' at two habitats, sparse and dense scrub. The nature of recruitment limitation (seeds vs. microsites) varied within the population. It was seed limited in the microhabitat 'open ground' and microsite limited under shrub cover. The spatial patterns of seedling recruitment were unrelated to seed availability but strongly affected by germination requirements. The spatial discordance between seed availability and recruitment implies a crucial constraint for processes affecting seed availability (seed predation but also e.g., dispersal) to impact recruitment. They will not affect its spatial pattern but only its quantity as long as they act in those sites selected by seeds to germinate. Seed predation was highest underneath mother plants and lowest in open ground. Thus, its potential impact is low, as it is centred where recruitment is not seed limited. This study shows that the analysis of seed predation in relation to recruitment limitations at smaller spatial scales within the population provides more insight to understand its impact.
20051319|Biogeographic comparisons help to identify similarities, differences, larger contexts, and useful hypotheses. Between the (extra-tropical) Northern and Southern Hemispheres taxonomy differs almost completely, but other useful bases for vegetation comparison include phenophysiognomy, form composition and vegetation architecture, subphysiognomic morphology, environmental limits of plant types, taxonomic richness, and some aspects of function. All major biome types occur in both hemispheres except the boreal forests and analogous montane coniferous forests of the Northern Hemisphere. Some vegetation and plant types appear clearly unique, including Eucalyptus, campo cerrado, and flat-cushions such as Azorella, all of these in the Southern Hemisphere. Different but parallel adaptations to different but analogous conditions include the tall submediterranean forests, temperate rainforests, and continental versus maritime temperate deserts. Climatic limits appear similar in the two hemispheres, but mechanisms for some differences remain unresolved. Per unit land area, the Southern Hemisphere has higher annual net primary productivity than the Northern. Dissimilar analogs continue to suggest hypotheses and research questions.
40926909|Fruit and seed features are the result of reproductive allocation decisions which ultimately depend on both plant availability of resources and total number of developing fruits. In this study, we manipulated fruit load in Cistus ladanifer plants by removing 0, 25 or 75% of developing fruits. Fruit features (total fruit weight, fruit-wall weight, total seed weight per fruit and seed number per fruit) were unaffected by fruit thinning, nevertheless mean seed weight increased in treated plants independently of thinning intensity. This reduced compensation was unrelated to plant size and had no consequences on fruit prdation by insects. From these results it could be suggested that not only availability of resources but also morphological constraints could affect seed size in Cistus ladanifer. On the other hand, this change in seed weight could have important consequences since in this species heavy seeds perform better after fire events but light ones are advantageous in between fire recruitments.
40926886|Activated carbon (AC) is widely used in ecological studies to elucidate the role of allelopathic substances in interspecific plant competition. However, by adsorbing chemical signalling compounds AC may also have negative effects on plants with symbiosis partners such as arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobia. Here we test whether addition of AC has detrimental effects on the mycorrhizal root colonization of the native forb Plantago lanceolata and the exotic legume Lupinas polyphyllus, the nodulation of L. polyphyllus, and the nutrient uptake and growth of the plants growing in intra- and interspecific competition. Allelopathic effects probably occurred in the germination and seedling establishment phase when P. lanceolata suffered from the presence of L. polyphyllus.However, this negative effect of L. polyphyllus on P. lanceolata was not ameliorated by AC addition. AC negatively affected L. polyphyllus root biomass in week 4, and root and shoot biomass of P. lanceolata in week 9 of the experiment; both effects were independent of the presence and absence of the competing plant species.Mycorrhizal root colonization of both plant species was reduced in the presence of AC, although the effect tended to be stronger for L. polyphyllus. No significant effect of AC on the nodulation of L. polyphyllus was detected. P. lanceolata was the superior competitor and led to reduced biomasses of L. polyphyllus in interspecific competition. We conclude that AC can reduce the mycorrhization and performance of plants which may lead to changes in interspecific competition without the involvement of allelopathy. Contrary to former studies the AC used in our study did not enhance the nutrient availability for the plants, but reduced plant growth and mycorrhization.We suggest that the nutrient properties of the used AC are of crucial importance for the direction and the mechanisms of the effects and should always be reported.
40606952|Evergreen boreal plant species express high variability in their leaf traits. It remains controversial whether this within-species variability is constrained to the same leaf trait relationships as has been observed across species. We sampled leaves of three boreal evergreen woody species along a latitudinal gradient (from 5756'N to 6955'N). Leaf longevity (LL) of Pinus sylvestris L. and Vaccinium vitis-idaea L. correlated negatively with mean annual air temperature (MAT), whereas the LL of Ledum palustre L. was not affected by MAT. V. vitisidaea and L. palustre had a negative relationship between leaf mass per area (LMA) and MAT. In P. sylvestris, the LMA-MAT relationship was positive. A negative correlation between LL and LMA was significant only for P. sylvestris. Leaf nitrogen concentration was positively related to leaf phosphorus concentration in all three species. Leaf potassium concentration was related to nitrogen concentration only in L. palustre, and to phosphorus concentration in P. sylvestris and L. palustre. Our results demonstrate that although within the studied species the variation in some of the leaf traits may have the same degree as interspecific variation, there is no such intercorrelation of leaf traits within the studied species as has been observed across species.
41412357|A thorough understanding of the rate of depletion of ungerminated seeds in soil is necessary to understand and model the population dynamics of many plant species. To assess how edaphic conditions influence seed survival over time a long-term field study was set up. Mesh bags of seeds of 12 species were buried under 12 contrasting semi-natural and grassland habitats and retrieved at intervals over 10 years. Seed survival and viability were assessed through germination trials and chemical staining. There were clear differences in the rate of depletion of ungerminated seed between species and also differences in the variability of this measure between habitats. Seed survival was longer in soils with a higher pH, lower moisture content and lower soil C:N. Soil characteristics need to be taken into account within studies of plant populations that depend on regeneration from seed, particularly for species where seed survival is sensitive to edaphic conditions. Ignoring this influence of the dynamics of seeds under different soil conditions may have a serious impact on the success of population modelling.
23362428|Conceptual models and some empirical studies in plant systems show that species interactions can shift from competitive under low stress and high productivity conditions to positive under high stress and low productivity conditions. In this study, we explore the relative strength and direction of marsh plant interactions at early life stages across a stress and productivity gradient in South Slough, Coos Bay, Oregon, USA. Germination and survival of five plant species (Atriplex patula L., Distichlis spicata (L.), Plantago maritima (Lam.) A. Gray, Sarcocornia pacifica (Standl.) A. J. Scott, Triglochin maritimum L.) were examined in the presence and absence of neighboring vegetation at three intertidal levels in each of three marsh sites along an estuarine gradient. We found that many of the interactions measured across these gradients were negative or neutral. The direction of the interactions depended on life stage, with neighboring plants having mostly negative and neutral effects on seed germination, and mostly neutral and rarely positive effects on seedling survival especially at lower intertidal locations. The exception was in the high intertidal at all sites, where competition was common. We found that the intensity of the interactions varied depending on marsh site, intertidal elevation, and plant species identity and that life stage and regional climate may be responsible for the general lack of positive interactions. We suggest that measuring species interactions across complex gradients of physical stress at different life stages can help refine our conceptual models and lead to better predictions of the factors controlling community structure.
40926885|The Orchidaceae have dust-like seeds that use wind currents for long-distance dispersal. Lacking endosperm, orchid embryos consume free-living, mycorrhizal fungi as a carbon source (mycotrophy) after settling on a substrate. Few studies have investigated orchid seed morphology as it relates to ecology, but conceivably variations in seed size and testa characteristics could be linked to water loss rates aimed at maximizing germination in a particular habitat. Seeds of 2 epiphytic, 1 aquatic, and 7 terrestrial orchids native to North America were compared with respect to water balance profiles: Cleistes bifaria, Encyclia tampensis, Epidendrum nocturnum, Habenaria repens, Isotria medeoloides, Liparis elata, L. hawaiensis, Platanthera holochila, P. integrilabia, and P. leucophaea. Water content, water loss rate, activation energy, and equilibrium humidity were assessed for each species. Seeds of epiphytic orchids were smaller, lighter, more porous, and had higher water loss rates compared to terrestrials. No active mechanism for water absorption exists in seeds of either group. Water loss appears to be a species-specific phenomenon that may be linked to the ecological niches these species occupy.
20146553|This paper is part of a wider study in which different combinations of species were assayed for the revegetation of experimentally burnt heathlands. In this particular case, we determined whether there was any interaction between the dominant species, Erica australis, which recovered by vegetative resprouting, and the only successful woody species sown, Cytisus sp., eight years after fire and seven years after sowing. A detailed study was carried out on each square metre of cover and height of both species in three 160 m plots. Total cover exceeded 100% in all subplots sown with Cytisus, whereas it did not reach 65% in the others, when both species coexist together. There was an inverse correlation between the covers of both species and a positive correlation between the height of Erica australis and the cover and the height of Cytisus. There was no significant difference in Erica cover in plots sown with Cytisus and plots not sown. There could be some competition for light, but both species are capable of coexisting with high canopy overlap, for at least some time. Cytisus is expanding from the seeded subplots, suggesting that the dense cover of Erica australis does not impede the establishment of Cytisus.
40540371|Vascular epiphytes are a conspicuous and highly diverse group in tropical wet forests; yet, we understand little about their mineral nutrition across sites. In this study, we examined the mineral nutrition of three dominant vascular epiphyte groups: ferns, orchids, and bromeliads, and their host trees from samples collected along a 2600 m elevational gradient in the tropical wet forests of Costa Rica. We predicted that the mineral nutrition of ferns, orchids, and bromeliads would differ because of their putative differences in nutrient acquisition mechanisms and nutrient sources atmospherically dependent, foliar feeding bromeliads would have lower nitrogen (N) and phosphorous (P) concentrations and more depleted N values than those in canopy soil-rooted ferns because canopy soil is higher in available N, and more enriched in N than the atmospheric sources of precipitation and throughfall. We also predicted that epiphyte foliar chemistry would mirror that of host trees because of the likely contribution of host trees to the nutrient cycle of epiphytes via foliar leaching and litter contributions to canopy soil. In the same vein, we predicted that epiphyte and host tree foliar chemistry would vary with elevation reflecting ecosystem-level nutrientssoil N availability increases and  availability decreases with increasing elevation. Our results confirmed that canopy soil-rooted epiphytes had higher N concentrations than atmospheric epiphytes; however, our predictions were not confirmed with respect to P which did not vary among groups indicating fixed  availability within sites. In addition, foliar N values did not match our prediction in that canopy soil-rooted as well as atmospheric epiphytes had variable signatures. Discriminant function analysis (DFA) on foliar measurements determined that ferns, orchids, and bromeliads are statistically distinct in mineral nutrition. We also found that P concentrations of ferns and orchids, but not bromeliads, were significantly correlated with those of host trees indicating a possible link in their mineral nutrition's via canopy soil. Interestingly, we did not find any patterns of epiphyte foliar chemistry with elevation. These data indicate that the mineral nutrition of the studied epiphyte groups are distinct and highly variable within sites and the diverse uptake mechanisms of these epiphyte groups enhance resource partitioning which may be a mechanism for species richness maintenance in tropical forest canopies.
40606968|Establishment of plants through seeds is often constrained by the quality of microsites, which is in part controlled by the nature and amount of ground cover. The latter consists of living shoots of vascular plants or bryophytes and/or the dead remains of the dominant species. In the present article, we report the results of a controlled pot experiment with five species characteristic of floodplain grasslands. We manipulated the amounts of grass litter and/or mosses to study (1) differences between ground cover types with respect to their effects on microenvironment and seedling emergence and (2) how these effects interact with seed size and seed sowing position. Increasing amounts of both cover types led to increasing soil humidity, whereas temperature amplitude and illumination were decreased. However, since grass litter decomposed much faster than bryophytes, light conditions for germination under grass litter improved considerably with time. Although seedling emergence varied significantly between species, ground cover types and cover amounts, seed position alone explained about 50% of the variation in the data set. Additionally, we found an important interaction between seed size, seed position and cover type: large-seeded species showed a fitness advantage when seeds were situated beneath a cover, irrespective of cover type, which disappeared when seeds were shed on top of a cover layer. We suggest that this interaction may be ecologically and evolutionarily relevant because it may lead to changes in species composition and diversity of plant communities as a consequence of changes in the amount and type of ground cover.
20050489|Tree community structure and dynamics of a 5.8 ha fragment of montane semideciduous forest in south-eastern Brazil are described based on two successive surveys of trees with dbh 5 cm carried out in 1987 and 1992 in 126 20  20 m quadrats. The main purpose was to assess whether the spatial variation of dynamic and structural variables were related to edge-effects and past disturbance regimes. The totals for the two surveys were, respectively, 6528 and 6770 trees, and 94.89 and
40305622|Dendroecological techniques were used to investigate the stand dynamics and the disturbance history of the subalpine fir forest in the Qinling Mountains of Shaanxi Province, China. The results indicated that 68% of the fir trees experienced 1-2 release events for a total of 10-29 (an average of 15.8) years, and 1-2 suppression events for a total of 10-27 (an average of 13.4) years before they reached canopy. Large number of Abies fargesii and Betula albosinensis recruitment coincided temporally with larger increases in the ring-width index from the 1830s to 1880s, suggesting occurrence of a major stand-wide disturbance during this time period. Few seedlings and saplings were found in the forest, and there was a dramatic decline in recruitment after 1890, probably because of the intensive cover of understory umbrella bamboo (Fargesia spathacea). Radial growth analyses indicated frequent canopy opening resulting from small-scale disturbances in the forest. Thus, the subalpine fir forest experienced frequent small-scale disturbances and infrequent large-scale disturbances in its developmental history, and these disturbances coupled with the understory umbrella bamboo might have influenced tree growth and species recruitment.
20051299|We describe the structure of two contrasting (elevation, topography, climate, vegetation, soil) alpine forest--pasture ecotones located in the Central Pyrenees (sites Ordesa, O, and Tess, T). We define ecotone structure as the spatial distribution of trees of different size classes and growth-forms and the relationship between these aspects and the spatial distribution of understory vegetation and substrate. The studied ecotones are dominated by Pinus uncinata Ram. and have been little affected by anthropogenic disturbances (logging, grazing) during this century. One rectangular plot (30  140 m) was located within each site with its longest side parallel to the slope and encompassing treeline and timberline. The distribution of size and growth-form classes at site O followed a clear sequence of increasing size downslope from shrubby multistemmed krummholz individuals to bigger arborescent trees. At site O, regeneration was concentrated near the krummholz area and over rocky substrates. This suggests that krummholz may modify microenvironment conditions and increase seedling survival. At site T, regeneration was abundant above the treeline where the cover of the dominant understory shrub (Rhododendron ferrugineum) decreased. In both ecotones the diversity of plants was higher above the treeline than in the forest and decreased going downslope coinciding with the increase of P. uncinata cover. The reduction of plant diversity appeared above the current timberline. At site O, the decrease was steep and spatially heterogeneous what may be due in part to the edaphic heterogeneity. At site T the change was abrupt though smaller. The relationships between the plant community and tree regeneration should be taken into account in future ecological studies of treeline pattern.
20051300|We studied soil and forest floor conditions, regeneration patterns of trees, and forest structure and floristic composition along a gradient of dominance by Pinus spp. in disturbed stands in the highlands of Chiapas, southern Mexico. Seedlings, saplings, and adults of tree species were counted and measured in 2-3 circular plots (1000 m each) in 36 forest stands (a total of 38 tree species). Dominance of broadleaved trees other than Quercus spp. was negatively correlated with basal area of Pinus spp. (P &lt 0.001). Soils of pine-dominated stands were more compacted, less acidic, and less fertile (lower C.E.C., nitrogen, and organic matter content). Numerous broadleaved trees may depend on an oak-dominated canopy to regenerate, and changes associated to pinelands expansion may compromise their long-term persistence. However, seedlings and saplings of Quercus spp. were abundant in stands with both an oak- or pine-dominated canopy. The results suggest that a plan for sustainable forest utilization in the study region, and in other similar populated tropical highlands, could take advantage of the abundant oak regeneration and coexistence with pines in the canopy.
40305789|Positive plant-soil feedback by "ecosystem engineers" is an important driver for the structuring and organization of resource-limited ecosystems. Although ample evidence demonstrates that plant-soil feedbacks can range from positive to strongly negative, their co-occurrence in plant communities have not yet been investigated. We test the hypothesis that the plant-soil feedback generated by the nitrogen-fixer shrub Medicago marina during primary succession in a sand dune community has a positive effect on the coexisting grass Lophochloa pubescens and a negative effect on the shrub species itself. We conducted field measurements and laboratory bioassays to evaluate (1) the effects of islands of fertility on the recruitment and growth of its ecosystem engineer and on the performance of a coexisting species and (2) the mechanisms involved that can explain the opposite effects of islands of fertility on coexisting species. Islands of fertility were present under Medicago crowns evidenced by higher available nitrogen, extractable phosphorus and potassium, organic matter, microbial activity, water holding capacity, soil humidity, and lower salt concentrations. The effects of these islands of fertility were clearly species-specific, with a facilitative impact on Lophochloa and a negative effect on Medicago recruitment. Lophochloa was denser and produced more biomass when rooted inside as compared to outside the crown area of the shrub. Contrarily, the number of seedlings of Medicago was lower inside, despite the higher seed abundance, and higher outside the crown area of adult shrubs as compared to predictions based on random distribution, thus showing a Janzen-Connell distribution. Laboratory experiments demonstrate the occurrence of Medicago negative plant-soil feedback, and that the auto-toxicity of the aboveground senescent plant material is a potentially important underlying mechanism explaining this negative feedback and the resulting Janzen-Connell distribution in the field.
20050538|The effects of leaves and litter of the boreal forest understory shrub, Ledum groenlandicum, on soil characteristics and black spruce (Picea mariana) seedling growth were investigated. Organic and mineral soils, not previously associated with L. groenlandicum, were amended with leaves and litter of this species. The objectives of the present study were: (i) to determine the changes in soil characteristics after amending with L. groenlandicum, (ii) to determine the quantitative variation in the concentration of water-soluble phenolic allelochemicals in mineral and organic soil layers modified by L. groenlandicum and (iii) to study the growth response of black spruce in soils treated with different L. groenlandicum amendments. The amended organic and mineral soils were analyzed for pH, organic matter, PO, N, Ba, Cu, Zn, Fe, Mn, Ca, Na, K, Mg, Al and total phenolics equivalence. Results indicate that organic soils amended with L. groenlandicum leaves and litter were significantly different from unamended control soil for most of the chemical characteristics, while amended mineral soil was different from that of unmodified mineral soil for PO, organic matter, K and total phenolics equivalence. Water-soluble phenolics from L. groenlandicum and changes in nutrient availability are plausible causes of L. groenlandicum interference with black spruce seedling growth.
20146742|If specialization influences species presence, then high tropical tree and shrub diversity should correspond with high environmental heterogeneity. Such heterogeneity may be found among different successional communities (i.e., canopy types). We explore species associations in three forest-dominated canopy types, forest, gap, and edge, in Kibale National Park, Uganda and determine environmental, soil and light, differences among canopy types. To determine the strength of differences among forested canopy types, they are also compared to grasslands. Tree and shrub density and species richness using rarefaction analysis were determined based on data from 24 small plots (5  5 m) in all four canopy types and 16 large plots (10  50 m) in forest and grassland canopy types. Environmental variables were determined along 10 (20 m) transects in the four canopy types. Using analysis of variance and principal components analysis, we demonstrate that forest and gap environments had similar soils, but forest had lower light levels than gap. We also found that grassland and edge were more similar to one another than to forest and gap, but differed in a number of important biotic and abiotic factors controlling soil water availability (e.g., edge had higher root length density of small roots &lt2 mm diameter in the top 20 cm than grassland). Using principal components analysis to assess similarities in community composition, we demonstrate that gap and forest had indistinguishable communities and that edge was similar to but distinct from both communities. Complete species turnover only occurred between grassland and the three forested canopy types. Even though overall community composition was similar in the three forested canopy types, in analyses of individual species using randomization tests, many common species were most frequently found in only one canopy type; these patterns held across size classes. These results suggest that despite differences among environments, community composition was similar among forested canopy types, which are likely intergrading into one another. Interestingly, individual species are more frequently found in a single canopy type, indicating species specialization.
40666622|Significant studies about Tamarix chinensis as an introduced invasive plant species have been implemented in North America. However, the response of native T. chinensis to its environment is not well known in China. T. chinensis is a useful species in preventing sea water intrusion in coastal areas of northern China. It is necessary to fully understand the relationships between environmental conditions and ecological characteristics of this species to better preserve its habitats. The Yellow River Delta Natural Reserve, one of the major distribution regions of  chinensis, was then selected as a case study area to investigate the response of this species to water table depth and soil salinity (Na, C1, Mg). It was found that sites with shallow water table depths (less than 1.5 m) and low soil salinity (less than 30 psu), provided the best habitat conditions for T. chinensis. The results also showed that plant height, stem diameter, and crown width were all positively correlated to plant age, while they had negative correlations with water table depth. Negative correlations between plant height and soil salinity, plant stem diameter and soil salinity were also concluded. However, no obvious relationship between the crown breadth of T. chinensis and soil salinity was observed. Four types of T. chinensis habitats were obtained based on the ecological characteristics of T. chinensis individuals associated with soil salinity and water table depth, i.e., (1) Low water table with high soil salinity; (2) Deep water table with high soil salinity; (3) Deep water table with low soil salinity; (4) Inundation with low salinity. These results provide a sound basis for wetland management in the Yellow River Delta.
40305718|Throughout Pinus ponderosa-Pseudotsuga menziesii forests of the southern Colorado Front Range, USA, intense logging and domestic grazing began at the time of Euro-American settlement in the late 1800s and continued until the early 1900s. We investigated the long-term impacts of these settlement-era activities on understory plant communities by comparing understory composition at a historically logged and grazed site to that of an environmentally similar site which was protected from past use. We found that species richness and cover within functional groups rarely differed between sites in either upland or riparian areas. Multivariate analyses revealed little difference in species composition between sites on uplands, though compositional differences were apparent in riparian zones. Our findings suggest that settlement-era logging and grazing have had only minor long-term impacts on understories of upland Front Range P. ponderosa-P. menziesii forests, though they have had a greater long-term influence on riparian understories, where these activities were likely the most intense.
20050646|The laurel-forest of the Canary Islands is a montane cloud-forest. In order to gain some knowledge on the processes that maintain tree species diversity, we conducted an analysis of three different laurel-forest plots of the Anaga massif (Tenerife), varying in canopy composition but growing under similar environmental conditions. For each plot we recorded basal area of the canopy trees (h &gt 1.30 m), the density of suckers and seedlings (h &lt 1.30 m), as well as seed-bank composition. The plots have similar regeneration composition, which appears to be independent of differences in canopy composition. Laurus azorica is the most common seedling species, whereas Prunus lusitanica is the most abundant species among suckers and basal shoots. Neither Erica arborea nor Myrica faya, the two main canopy trees in one of the plots, were found in any of the stands as seedlings or suckers, despite their existence as viable seeds in the seed-bank. The regeneration composition and the canopy composition in one of the plots is remarkable different, revealing differents dynamics processes in the three plots. The results suggest the existence of three well-defined ecological groups: pioneer (regeneration primarily by seedlings), non-pioneer (regeneration by seedlings and suckers) and remnant species (regeneration primarily by suckers). These three groups and the effect of small scale disturbances (natural and human-induced), could help to understand the maintenance of tree species richness.
20146427|Melinis minutiflora Beauv. (Poaceae) is an African grass that is invading mid-elevation Trachypogon savannas in Venezuela. The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of soil fertility, competition and soil disturbance in facilitating Melinis' invasion and growth in these savanna sites. We manipulated soil fertility by adding nitrogen (+N), phosphorus and potassium (+PK), or nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (+NPK). We simulataneously manipulated the competitive environment by clipping background vegetation. In a separate experiment, we mechanically disrupted the soil to simulate disturbance. We hypothesized that germination and growth were bottlenecks to early establishment in undisturbed savanna, but that disturbance would alleviate those bottlenecks. We measured Melinis seed germination and subsequent establishment by adding seeds to all plots. We examined Melinis growth by measuring biomass of Melinis seedling transplants, 11 months after they were placed into treatment plots. Germination and establishment of Melinis from seed was extremely low. Of the 80,000 seeds applied in the experiment, only 28 plants survived the first growing season. Mortality of Melinis seedling transplants was lowest in PK fertilized plots, but in the absence of PK mortality increased with N additions and clipping. By contrast, fertilization of the savanna with NPK greatly increased Melinis seedling biomass and this effect was greatly enhanced when competition was reduced (e.g. clipping). Melinis transplant growth responded strongly to soil disturbance- a response not fully explained by removal of competitors (clipping) or changes in soil nutrients and moisture. We suspect that disruption of the soil structure allowed for greater root proliferation and subsequent plant growth. We believe that native savanna is relatively resistant to Melinis invasion, since Melinis seedlings persisted in intact savanna but exhibited little or no growth during the first year. The significant enhancement of Melinis seedling growth with clipping and nutrient additions suggests that low soil nutrients and the presence of native savanna species are important factors in the ability of native savanna to resist Melinis establishment. However, the potential for Melinis growth increases enormously with soil disturbance.
40212992|The establishment of exotic trees such as Pinus radiata (radiata pine, Pinaceae) and Eucalyptus globulus (eucalyptus, Myrtaceae) in fragments of native vegetation at the Parque Nacional Tunari (PNT, Cochabamba-Bolivia), can affect the regeneration of the native species that live there. Polylepis subtusalbida's (kewia, Rosaceae) regeneration was surveyed, evaluating the density of seedlings, their size structure, and growth forms, as well as variables of growth and survival in fragments of pure forests (P. subtusalbida fragments without exotic trees). Sixty-four permanent study plots were established in mixed fragments of P. subtusalbida-P. radiata, P. subtusalbida-E. globulus and fragments with only P. subtusalbida, in three locations within the Parque Nacional Tunari. Mixed fragments with both native and exotic trees and native pure fragments did not present differences in seedling density. Differences in density were related to adult native tree densities. A greater proportion of P. subtusalbida's seedlings exhibited lateral growth and adventitious roots in mixed fragments than in pure fragments. The size structure only varied between locations and not between fragment-types. Smaller individuals grew more, in both pure and mixed fragments. Greater survival of seedlings was observed in the larger individuals and in the ones that exhibited lateral growth. P. subtusalbida's regeneration in the PNT is complex and varies at two spatial scales: between locations and between fragment type. If conservation of P. subtusalbida fragments in the PNT is considered a priority, their regeneration should be favored and different measures for the management of forests must be in accordance with the specific needs given the locations and fragment type.
20050772|We examined patterns of richness and endemism in relation to phylogeny (family membership), growth form and habitat in the flora of an arid (&lt60 mm annual rainfall), sandy coastal belt between Port Nolloth and Alexander Bay on the north-west coast of Namaqualand, South Africa. This region forms part of the species-rich Succulent Karoo biome. In an area of 750 km, 300 plant species were recorded with 24% endemnicity. This level of diversity and endemism is exceptionally high for a desert region. Plant distribution is strongly influenced by habitat type. Diversity, especially of endemic species, was concentrated on rocky or unusual (lag-gravel pavements) habitats. Endemics were not random phylogenetic nor biological assemblages. Dwarf leaf-succulent shrubs, especially Mesembryanthemaceae, were significantly over-represented amongst the endemic component. The results are discussed in terms of a model for plant diversification in an arid environment with relatively predictable sources of moisture.
20051270|This paper examined vascular-plant and cryptogam species diversity on different spatial scales in semi-natural grasslands along an elevational gradient ranging from 530 m a.s.l. (southern boreal region) to 1230 m a.s.l. (low alpine region) in Vang, southern Norway. Species diversity of vascular-plants on a small scale (0.25 m) peaked at mid-elevations. Diversity at low elevations was not higher than that of high elevations, but diversity on a large scale decreased continuously with elevation. Cryptogam diversity increased with elevation on all scales. High small-scale vascular-plant diversity at high elevations was positively related to species abundance which increased with elevation, and suggests an area effect along the gradient. Most species at mid-elevational levels (750 and 915 m a.s.l.) did also occur at other levels. Lowland vascular-plant species constituted 50% of the species in the low alpine region. Collectively, these patterns reflect the importance of regional dynamics along the gradient. Environmental variables such as topography, biomass, soil variables were less important for explaining variation in vascular plant diversity, and it is suggested that land-use processes such as grazing, mowing, fuel-wood cutting have levelled out the effects of other variables along the gradient.
40305775|In this study, we examined to what extent the internal site factors (light and soil conditions) are responsible for herb layer diversity in oak-dominated forest stands growing on different substrates in central Bohemia (Czech Republic). We collected data on herb layer diversity, light and nutrient availability at nine oak stands, representing the range of environmental variability for these types of forests in the region. We found that species richness increased with light availability, but only if the site occupied predominantly by fast-colonizing species was excluded from the analysis (P < 0.05). Species richness correlated positively with soil pH and negatively with nitrogen (N) concentration in humus (P < 0.05). The highest species richness was found at sites with not only low N soil concentration, but also simultaneously with high phosphorus (P) soil concentration. Despite this finding, however, herb layer diversity is evidently threatened much more in P-rich soils than in P-poor soils. It seems that the enhancement of N in an ecosystem due to litter accumulation and N deposition generally leads to only a minor increase in N availability at P-poor sites, but a considerable increase at P-rich sites. Therefore, species richness can be exceptionally high at P-rich sites, but only under conditions of strong N limitation.
23500334|The altitudinal gradient is considered as a stress gradient for plant species because the development and fitness of plant communities tend to decrease as a result of the extreme environmental conditions present at high elevations. Abiotic factors are predicted to be the primary filter for species assemblage in high alpine areas, influencing biotic interactions through both competition for resources and positive interactions among species. We hypothesised that the relative importance of the ecological driving forces that affect the biotic interactions within plant communities changes along an elevation gradient on alpine debris slopes. We used multiple gradient analyses of 180 vegetation plots along an altitudinal range from 1,600 to 2,600 m and single 100 m-bands in the Adamello-Presanella Group (Central Alps) to investigate our hypothesis; we measured multiple environmental variables related to different ecological driving forces. Our results illustrate that resource limitations at higher elevations affect not only the shift from competition to facilitation among species. A geomorphological disturbance regime along alpine slopes favours the resilience of the high-altitude species within topographic/geomorphological traps. An understanding of the ecological driving forces and positive interactions as a function of altitude may clarify the mechanisms underlying plant responses to present and future environmental changes.
40926894|Mating systems of Angiosperms are important determinants of population genetic structure and evolutionary potential. Nicotiana longiflora and N. plumbaginifolia are self-compatible, sister species, with contrasting floral morphology and can be found in allopatry and sympatry in North Argentina.In two sympatric and 10 nearby allopatric populations we studied their natural interpopulational variability and sympatry effects on corolla length and anther-stigma distance. We also estimated seed set by selfing and via pollinators using pollination treatments. Both corolla length and anther-stigma distance varied significantly among N. longiflora, but not among N. plumbaginifolia populations. We did not detect an effect of sympatry in either species for any of the floral traits studied. Pollination treatments suggest that N. longiflora is mainly an outcrosser, although selfing occurs at some extent. Seed set attributed to pollinators was significantly higher in N. longiflora whereas most seeds in N. plumbaginifolia were sired through self-pollination. In N. plumbaginifolia, selfing seems to assure reproduction in sympatric populations, where floral visitors have a strong preference for N. longiflora. Corolla length was significantly negatively correlated with an increase in the percentage of self-seeds estimated by pollination treatments. Within N. longiflora, anther-stigma distance showed a positive correlation with selfing.
20050429|In a greenhouse study, plants of three monocotyledonous and five dicotyledonous species, which occur in a Dutch dune grassland, were exposed to four levels of ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation. UV-B levels simulated up to 30% reduction of the stratospheric ozone column during summertime in The Netherlands. Six of the plant species studied in the greenhouse were also exposed to enhanced UV-B irradiance in an experimental field study. In the field experiment plants either received the ambient UV-B irradiance (control) or an enhanced UV-B level simulating 15-20% ozone depletion during summertime in The Netherlands. The purpose of both experiments was to determine the response of the plant species to UV-B radiation and to compare results obtained in the greenhouse with results of the field experiment. Large intraspecific differences in UV-B sensitivity were observed in the greenhouse study. Total dry matter accumulation of monocotyledons was increased, while dry matter accumulation of dicotyledons remained unaffected or decreased. The increase in biomass production of monocotyledons at elevated UV-B was not related to the rate of photosynthesis but to alterations in leaf orientation. In the greenhouse study, UV-B radiation also affected morphological characteristics. Shoot height or maximum leaf length of five out of eight species was reduced. In the field study only one species showed a significantly decreased maximum leaf length at enhanced UV-B. Possible reasons for this discrepancy are discussed. The absorbance of methanolic leaf extracts also differed between species. UV absorbance of field-grown plants was higher than greenhouse-grown plants. In the greenhouse study, the highest UV-B level increased UV-B absorbance of some species. In the field study however, this stimulation of UV absorbance was not observed. In general, results obtained in the greenhouse study were similar to results obtained in the field study. Difficulties in extrapolating results of UV-B experiments conducted in the greenhouse to the field situation are discussed.
20050851|Variations in the amount of solar ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) reaching the biosphere may alter productivity in non-agricultural plants. We examined how ambient levels of UV-B modify the biomass of seven temperate-zone species including three grass species (Echinochloa crusgalli, Setaria faberi, Elymus virginicus), three forbs (Verbascum blattaria, Lactuca biennis, Oenothera parviflora), and one tree species (Quercus rubra). Plants were grown outside in enclosures near Morgantown, WV, USA (39 N, 79 W) for one season under near-ambient or no UV-B conditions. The different levels of UV-B were achieved using filters which differentially transmit UV-B irradiance. There was a trend towards reduced above-ground biomass in L. biennis (14%) and significantly increased above-ground biomass in O. parviflora (10.2%) under ambient UV-B. The partitioning of biomass between individual plant parts was altered by ambient UV-B in O. parviflora. Leaf biomass was significantly increased (18%), and there were trends toward increased stem (6.7%) and reproductive (9%) biomass. In addition to biomass stimulations, O. parviflora grew significantly taller (5.3%) under ambient UV-B. This study provides evidence that some non-agricultural plants exhibit species-specific growth responses to variable UV-B, with short-lived forbs appearing to be the most sensitive. If the biomass and morphological alterations observed for the forbs in this study were to persist over several years, they might modify population dynamics, competitive interactions, and productivity in ecosystems as UV-B levels fluctuate in the future.
23267485|In north-eastern North America, the recent red spruce decline has been linked to atmospheric pollution, notably acid rain, although climate was also advocated as a potential factor. A high resolution lake sediment pollen stratigraphy was obtained to elucidate long-term trends in tree-species abundance in a sugar mapleyellow birch forest. The reconstructed history (2501996 A.D.) showed a steady increase of red spruce after 1300 A.D., with a peak between 1600 and 1900 A.D. followed by a strong decline in the last century, while sugar maple and yellow birch experienced an opposite trend. Red spruce abundance reached its apogee during the cool Little Ice Age (LIA) and decreased abruptly when annual temperature in the region increased by 2 C in the last 125 years. American Beech was much more abundant in the forest before the LIA, typifying a sugar mapleAmerican beech forest as the dominant forest type during the Late Holocene. Our results suggest that climate warming has played an important role in the current red spruce decline, the latter having been initiated well before acidic depositions reached deleterious potential effects on red spruce. Climate warming probably acted as a long-term predisposing factor that was aggravated by atmospheric pollution, in the last decades.
20050879|The variation in graminoid species composition and diversity and the distribution of photosynthetic pathways among 66 wetlands in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, and within six of these wetlands was described and related to measured physical parameters, using multivariate and univariate techniques. Altitude, which ranged from 550 m to 2120 m, accounted for most variation among wetlands, with an almost complete turnover of species along this gradient. Landform setting was less important in explaining overall species composition, but relationships of individual species were revealed (e.g. Eleocharis dregeana showed an affinity for depressions). Within a wetland there was an almost complete turnover of species along a gradient of wetness, as described using soil morphological criteria. Most species were consistently associated with the same wetness zones across different wetland sites, e.g., Phragmites australis with the wettest zone, Pycreus macranthus with the intermediate zone, and Eragrostis plana with the least wet zone. The occurrence and abundance of different photosynthetic pathway types depended on altitude and degree of wetness. At high altitudes, C sedges, notably Carex acutiformis, dominated the wettest zone and C and C grasses and sedges dominated the intermediate and least wet zones. At mid altitudes, C and C sedges and C grasses dominated the wettest zone, C and C grasses and sedges dominated the intermediate zone and C grasses dominated the least wet zone. Low altitude sites showed a similar distribution of photosynthetic pathways as mid-altitude sites, but C species were less abundant. Species richness was positively associated with the log of wetland size and, at the level of an individual wetland, species richness and evenness were found to be consistently greater in the intermediate and least wet zone compared with the wettest zone. The management implications of the results are discussed in the light of continuing anthropogenic loss of wetlands in the study area and global climate change.
40606969|Mutualistic disruptions, such as those promoted by the loss of seed dispersers, can have negative effects on the plant regeneration of those species that strongly depend upon them. In order to adequately assess how plant communities are affected by such disruptions, we need to know the importance of the dispersal phase, both in its quantitative and qualitative components. We examined this in the narrow interaction between the shrub Daphne rodriguezii and its (only) disperser, the lizard Podarcis lilfordi. We quantified fruit removal and the effect of fruit/seed-size selection, seed treatment in the disperser's guts and seed deposition patterns on seedling emergence and survival. In the only locality in which lizards persist, they removed most fruits and showed preference for larger ones in one of the two study years. Seed treatment in lizard's guts had no effect on germination, although it tended to reduce the effect of seed size on germination (differences between large vs. small seeds in seed germination were higher for non-ingested seeds). Probability of seedling emergence, but not survival, was higher in the locality with lizards. Dispersed seeds under heterospecific shrubs showed higher seedling survival than those under conspecifics in all localities, especially the year with higher rainfall. Our findings support that the movement of seeds to nurse shrubs by lizards is the most important component of the seed dispersal process in the only remaining locality where both species coexist.
20050924|Tropical rain forests have an amazingly large number of closely related, sympatric species. How the sympatric species coexist is central to understanding the maintenance of high biodiversity in tropical rain forests. We compared local and geographical distributions among trees in Scaphium (Sterculiaceae), a tropical canopy tree genus. Scaphium is endemic to the Far Eastern tropics and comprises six species. Scaphium scaphigerum is distributed in drier regions than the other species' geographical distribution ranges. Scaphium longiflorum is distributed swamp forests, whereas the others were distributed in lowland and hill tropical rain forests on undulating land. Scaphium borneense, S. longipetiolatum, and S. macropodum co-occurred in a 52-ha plot in Lambir, Sarawak and clearly showed an allopathic pattern of distribution related to elevation in it. In the plot, the elevational difference was correlated with soil variation. Consequently, the difference in edaphic condition promoted the habitat segregation of the species. Thus these five Scaphium species have divergent habitats at various spatial scales and coexist because they reduce direct competition by habitat niche differentiation. Although the non-equilibrium hypothesis for the coexistence of Scaphium species cannot be rejected categorically due to the lack of enough information about S. linearicarpum, the equilibrium force may play the predominant role which permits their coexistence.
20051204|Flowering phenology is often strongly constrained by phylogenetic history: many closely-related plants have very similar phenologies. On the other hand, divergent flowering phenologies can function as isolating mechanisms, which may be reinforced if related plants occur sympatrically. I investigated flowering phenology and reproductive output of sister species of barrel cacti, Ferocactus cylindraceus and F. wislizeni, where they occur sympatrically in the Sonoran Desert surrounding Tucson, Arizona. Ferocactus cylindraceus began blooming in May, and continued until early or mid-October, with a bimodal pattern of flowering amplitude. Individuals in the study population were moderately well-synchronized phenologically. Ferocactus wislizeni began blooming in July, and also continued until early or mid-October, with a single peak of intensity; individuals in the study population were well- synchronized phenologically. In both species, the vast majority of individuals bloom every year. Plant size was positively correlated with flowering amplitude in both species, and with flowering onset in F. wislizeni. The study population of F. cylindraceus was strongly affected by a flower-eating caterpillar in all years, with the earliest flowers most likely to be destroyed. For F. wislizeni, seed number per fruit was highest for flowers open in the middle of the blooming season in 1998. Other components of individual plant phenology, including among-plant synchrony, had little influence on reproductive output.
41508720|Numerous plant colonizations have been putatively attributed to deer, based on plant species traits, fur brushing or dung analyses. But, in woodlands, direct links between the expansion of zoochorous plant species and ungulate presence have seldom been reported. Based on coupled floristic and browsing surveys, repeated in time, we analysed the causes of the spatio-temporal progression of the epizoochorous species Cynoglossum germanicum over 30 years in a network covering an 11000 ha forested area in north-eastern France. In this area, deer populations reached a peak in the 1970s, then were reduced in order to meet forest management requirements. Although initially rare and protected locally, C. germanicum has displayed an unexpected fast colonization rate during the last few decades but only in the northern part of the forest, which previously had the highest animal populations. Absent in the initial 1976 survey, C. germanicum occurred in 8% of the plots in 1981, then 46% in 2006. Logistic regression models revealed that the probability of occurrence of C. germanicum in 2006 increased not only with light indicator values, in accordance with its ecological requirements, but also with past deer browsing pressure. This result provides direct evidence of long-lasting impacts of deer populations on plant species distribution. Combining two complementary traits, animal transport and herbivory avoidance, C. germanicum benefited from epizoochorous dispersal and, once established, was protected from deer browsing by the presence of toxic proteins in its tissues. Due to the triggering role of ungulates, this species switched from the status of rare to that of colonizer within only a few decades.
41508747|Germination and establishment of ancient forest species are bottlenecks in forest habitat restoration. We hypothesised that tree species can influence these processes on acidification sensitive soils through their effects on the soil. Seeds of seven ancient forest species were sown in soil collected in a post-agricultural forest under four different tree species, notably Acer pseudoplatanus, Alnus glutinosa, Fagas sylvatica and Populas x euramericana. Germination of four species was affected by tree species, while only Scilla non-scripta was indifferent and germination of Anemone nemorosa and Paris quadrifolia was unsuccessful. The acid intolerant Primula elatior only germinated in the soil of P. x euramericana but also the acid tolerant Lonicera periclymenum and Stellaria holostea performed best in the soil of P. x euramericana and worst in the soil of A. glutinosa. Lamium galeobdolon preferred the soil of A. pseudoplatanus. Germination of competitive seed bank species was much more successful in the soil of P. x euramericana than in soil of other tree species. From our results we deduce that tree species selection can affect germination of ancient forest species. Forest managers should be aware of the effects of tree species on their colonisation chances and favour trees with good decomposable litter especially on acidification sensitive soils.
20051174|The geoecological effects of organic matter addition to soil by Hawaiian silverswords (Argyroxiphium sandwicense DC., Asteraceae) in Haleakala's crater (Maui) are examined. Sets of 12 surface soil samples were gathered in three positions: bare soils; under the crown canopy of adjacent live plants; and below dead, withered rosettes. Silversword standing litter and live foliage were also collected. Several physical and chemical properties were investigated. Bare soils were coarse and exceptionally low in chemical nutrients and water-holding capacity. Litter addition below silverswords altered all properties except particle-size distribution; soils under dead rosettes became modified more strongly than those below live plants. While rosettes grow, standing litter is tightly preserved, thus only small amounts of organic matter are added to soil. When plants die, a substantial influx of litter is released in a short period (7 to 9 years average); this raises the C and N content, C/N ratios, exchangeable nutrient levels (Ca, Mg, K, P) and cation exchange capacity of soil. Physical properties, such as color, bulk density and porosity are also greatly affected; as a result, soil water-retention at field capacity nearly doubles under withering plants. Soil temperatures (5 cm depth) at noon were  18.1 C lower beneath silversword canopies (18.5 C mean) than in contiguous bare soils (36.6 C). This cooling may result in lower evaporation and further conservation of soil moisture, thus increased seed germination. Nutrient-retention strategies may have evolved in the semelparous Argyroxiphium to help it cope with the harsh, drought-prone soils and unpredictable climate of Haleakala. Silversword flowering results in a tremendous seed output, but the plant needs to ensure that some seeds -- which have limited dispersal capability -- will germinate, and thus provides a nutrient-rich, water-retaining substrate more suitable for seedling establishment than bare soils. Through its self-regulating influence on underlying soils, Argyroxiphium affects both soil formation and its own regeneration in Haleakala.
20050912|The aim of this investigation was to examine the reasons for the higher pollination success in Cistus creticus under enhanced UV-B radiation (Stephanou & Manetas 1998). Thus, a selected array of floral attributes as well as the frequency and duration of insect visits were studied in the field under ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation, simulating a 15% ozone depletion over Patras (38.3 N, 29.1 E). Video-recording revealed two categories of visitors, i.e. true pollinators (bees) and nectar thieves. The frequency of visits to both control and UV-B treated plants was the same and independent of whether the UV-B tubes were on or off during video recording. UV-B radiation had no effect on gross floral morphology (petal surface area, number of pollen grains, stamens and ovules, optical properties of petals and stamens), yet nectary size was almost doubled. In addition, the duration of insect visits was significantly longer on UV-B treated plants, provided that the UV-B tubes were off during monitoring. The differences were abolished during the part of the day that the tubes were on, indicating that the insects were annoyed by supplemental UV-B radiation. These results are consistent with the nectaries producing larger quantities of nectar, which caused the insects to stay longer on flowers of UV-B treated plants and improved pollination success.
41508809|The ability of a non-resident species to establish a viable population when sown or transplanted into a target community is often considered as indirect evidence that its absence in the community is caused by dispersal limitation. We evaluated the importance of dispersal and habitat limitation in an oligotrophic wet meadow community by a sowing experiment where seeds of three resident and three non-resident dicotyledonous species were added to the target community, into disturbed (litter and moss removal by raking) and undisturbed plots. The sowing experiment was supplemented with a transplant experiment, to overcome possible seedling failure in early life stages. Recruitment and survival of seedlings and transplants were monitored for 5 years. Disturbance increased recruitment, but decreased survival, in both resident and non-resident species. Recruitment was slightly better in the nonresident species, while survival was slightly better in the resident species. Three species reached the reproductive stage at the end of the experiment, one resident and two non-resident. The two non-resident species would probably be able to establish viable populations and consequently their absence can be caused by dispersal limitation. On the contrary, one of the non-resident species was not able to overcome the seedling state, and this inability can cause its absence. Two of resident species failed to establish themselves; this failure to establish is probably related to the prevailing vegetative propagation of these species. This shows that the failure to establish is not sufficient evidence that a species is habitat limited.
40212944|Though observations on re-colonisation of post-fire sites in the Mediterranean Basin are plentiful, there still is an ongoing debate on the interrelation of fire regimes and species traits related to fire adaptation. Most of the studies found are restricted to particular species or claim to present community attributes. Therefore they often lack information for the evaluation of evolutionary evidence and historical contingency of the local fire regime and other abiotic conditions, which may act as selective pressure for plant regeneration strategies. Indeed, knowledge about the success of regeneration mechanisms and their interrelation with ecological factors is essential for the interpretation of the high spatio-temporal variability found in post-fire species performance. Such knowledge would be necessary to assess the potential of different regeneration mechanisms to cope with ongoing land-use and climate change--a crucial scientific challenge. A summary is given of the knowledge about the limits and potential of plant regeneration mechanisms after fire in the Mediterranean Basin, along with corresponding studies conducted in other parts of the world with similar climatic conditions in order to present the fullest possible picture. Moreover, the positive or negative impacts of particular parameters of a fire regime on different regeneration strategies ( post-fire seeders, resprouters, and facultative resprouters) are explained and discussed in the light of published literature. To conclude, reference is made to scientific gaps that need to be filled in order to analyse species resistance and community resilience absorbing possible climate or land use changes.
40212883|The size of treefall gaps is an important determinant of regeneration composition in tropical and temperate forests. Preliminary studies in the laurel forest of Tenerife have shown that small gaps (<100 m) were the most numerous. However, due to this small size, no significant differences were found between regeneration in gaps and regeneration below the canopy. Because infrequent large gaps (> 100 m) are present in the laurel forest, we analyzed the regeneration in these large uncommon gaps, considering their potentially important role in the dynamics of the system. Our main hypothesis is that large gaps are important disturbance to ensure the regeneration and stablishment of shade intolerant species. Only five gaps larger than 100 m (ranging from 125-268 m) were found in the study area. Data from a further 20 small gaps (<100 m), analysed in a previous study, was also included. Control plots were examined close to the gaps in order to determine regeneration below the closed canopy. We did not find a significant difference between regeneration density in the gaps (<100 m) and regeneration below the canopy in the control plots. Contrary to our expectations, regeneration was lower in the large gaps than under the canopy. The open canopy in the large gaps increases light intensity, and has a negative effect on the germination and growth of shade-tolerant tree species like Viburnum tinus (although non-statistically significant); however, the increase in light intensity is not sufficient to stimulate the germination of shade-intolerant tree species. The effects of treefall gaps in the dynamics of the laurel forest of Anaga should be not considered as significant in comparison to other factors such as human disturbances or infrequent disturbances (land slides or hurricanes).
40305529|We examined the effects of leaf herbivory by the dorcas gazelle, Gazella dorcas, on the compensatory growth of the geophyte Pancratium sickenbergeri (Amaryllidaceae) in the Negev desert, Israel. In three populations exposed to different levels of herbivory, we removed different amounts of photosynthetic leaf area from plants in five clipping treatments: 0, 25, 50%-dispersed over all leaves, 50%-entire area of half the leaves, 100%. The population with the lowest level of herbivory showed the lowest relative regrowth rate after clipping. In the population with a constantly high level of herbivory, plants in intermediate-clipping treatments overcompensated in leaf area after clipping. For all the populations, clipped plants produce more new leaves than undipped plants. In the population with the highest level of herbivory, clipping treatments did not have a significant effect on the number of fruits per plant. In addition, we did not find a trade-off between investments in growth and reproduction in this population. Our results indicated that, in the desert lily, herbivores may select for plant mechanisms that compensate after damage as a tolerant strategy to maintain fitnes.
23362526|Forest fragmentation is pervasive in tropical landscapes, and animal-dispersed tree species are among the most threatened. Seed source is an important factor for active conservation and restoration efforts for such species but many studies show lower germination levels for seeds collected from small fragments compared to larger forests. However, the increasing rarity of large forests makes them difficult to be used as practical seed sources. We assessed the potential of small to medium-sized fragments (19209 ha) to serve as seed sources for the conservation and restoration of an animal-dispersed tree Lacistema aggregatum (Lacistemataceae) in Costa Rican premontane wet forests. Germination, seedling survivorship, and growth for 2 years were quantified in a screen house environment. Two years later, more rigorous germination tests were conducted. Germination levels differed substantially among source trees. Seeds from some individuals had no germination inter-annually, suggesting that fecundity alone may be an incomplete indicator of individual fitness. Furthermore, in contrast to many previous studies, germination was better for seeds from smaller fragments for both study years. Subsequent seedling survivorship did not counteract the trends generated by germination, and the better performance of seeds from smaller fragments was retained for 2 years as ex situ seedlings. Higher seed quality in smaller fragments was associated with larger seed size in trees near forest edges, which might result from higher potential outcrossing rates. Our results suggest a previously unrecognized potential of small fragments as seed sources.
23362418|Recruitment by seeds is essential both in vegetation dynamics and in supporting biodiversity in grasslands. The recruitment by seeds is feasible in suitable vegetation gaps from the seed rain and/or by establishment from persistent soil seed banks. Cessation of grassland management results in litter accumulation, which leads to the decline of species diversity by the decreased availability of open patches. Low amounts of litter is often beneficial, while high amounts of litter is detrimental for seed germination and seedling establishment of short-lived species. In a designed indoor experiment, we explored the effect of litter on seedling establishment by germinating six short-lived Brassicaceae species with both increasing seed mass and litter cover. We found that both seed mass and litter had significant effect on germination and establishment of the sown species. Small-seeded species were significantly negatively affected by the 300 and/or 600 g/m 2 litter layers. No negative litter effect was detected for species with high seed masses (Lepidium spp.). No overall significant positive litter effect was found, although for most of the species cumulative seedling numbers were not the highest at the bare soil pots. Our results suggest that the negative effects of litter are less feasible on the large-seeded short-lived species than on that of small-seeded ones.
23267393|Post-dispersal seed predation is a risk for plants in semiarid environments, leading to strategies to protect their propagules from seed collection by animals. In this study, we evaluated the importance of mucilage secretion in seeds as a mechanism to reduce seed collection by ants. We selected three Mediterranean species with strong mucilage secretion on their seeds which become sticky upon wetting. Seeds of Rosmarinus officinalis, Fumana ericoides, and Fumana thymifolia were exposed to ants and survival was compared between dry loose seeds and seeds glued to the soil with previously secreted mucilage. The study site was in the Sierra Calderona, 25 km north of Valencia (Spain). The antplant interaction was analyzed by scrutinizing seed collection by ants and by analyzing the waste piles of ant nests. To test survival, groups of 10 seeds were placed on the ground. Each group consisted of five control (dry) and five mucilaginous seeds (previously mucilage secreted) and was covered by the cover of a Petri dish modified to permit only the entry of ants. Seeds were inspected weekly for seed disappearance and the survival function (KaplanMeier estimator) was calculated. Seeds of the target species were important food items for ants and were actively collected, and more than 50 % of the experimental seeds that were glued to the ground with their own mucilage survived at the end of the study period but only 020 % of the control seeds survived after the same time of exposure. The implications for plant establishment of these findings are discussed.
20050695|The integration of mineral element composition was compared in two tree species of contrasting ecology. The native Prosopis cineraria is slow growing and non-invasive, while the introduced P. juliflora is fast growing, highly aggressive and invasive, and causes substratum degradation in the semi-arid and arid areas of north and north-west India. The two species were sampled from 18 sites in this region. Their leaf samples were analysed for leaflet weight, area and leaflet specific weight, and ash, Ca, Mg, Na, K, Zn, Cu and P concentrations. The soil samples were analysed for pH, electrical conductivity, exchangeable Ca, Mg, Na, K, Zn, PO, HCO, and organic carbon contents. Analysis of the data showed that while P. cineraria exhibited numerous correlations amongst plant and soil characteristics, it was not so in P. juliflora. This lack of integration amongst plant and soil characteristics and the ability to meet its nutrient requirements in all situations could be the basis of the phenomenal spread of P. juliflora across varying environmental conditions, in contrast to P. cineraria. This study illustrates the use of such information in the assessment of the ecological success of plant species, especially its evaluation in alien environments.
41508788|Floral displays of invasive plants have positive and negative impacts on native plant pollination. Invasive plants may also decrease irradiance, which can lead to reduced pollination of native plants. The effects of shade and flowers of invasive plant species on native plant pollination will depend on overlap in flowering phenologies. We examined the effect of the invasive shrub Lonicera maackii on female reproductive success of the native herb Hydrophyllum macrophyllum at two sites: one with asynchronous flowering phenologies (slight overlap) and one with synchronous (complete overlap). At each site, we measured light availability, pollinator visitation, pollen deposition, and seed set of potted H. macrophyllum in the presence and absence of L. maackii. At both sites, understory light levels were lower in plots containing L. maackii. At the asynchronous site, H. macrophyllum received fewer pollinator visits in the presence of L. maackii, suggesting shade from L. maackii reduced visitation to H. macrophyllum. Despite reduced visitation, H. macrophyllum seed set did not differ between treatments. At the synchronous site, H. macrophyllum received more pollinator visits and produced more seeds per flower in the presence of co-flowering L. maackii compared to plots in which L. maackii was absent, and conspecific pollen deposition was positively associated with seed set. Our results support the hypothesis that co-flowering L. maackii shrubs facilitated pollination of H. macrophyllum, thereby mitigating the negative impacts of shade, leading to increased seed production. Phenological overlap appears to influence pollinator-mediated interactions between invasive and native plants and may alter the direction of impact of L. maackii on native plant pollination.
20146465|The seed-dispersal systems of Coulter pine (Pinus coulteri), gray pine (P. sabiniana), and Torrey pine (P. torreyana), all of the subsection Sabinianae, are not well understood. These pines occur in arid and semi-arid foot-hills and mountains of California that are subjected to frequent fires. Cone and seed traits of these three California pines are compared to those of four species of pines (sugar pine, P. lambertiana; Jeffrey pine, P. jeffreyi; ponderosa pine, P. ponderosa; and lodgepole pine, P. contorta) that occur in more mesic environments in the nearby Sierra Nevada mountains. The cones of the Sabinianae pines are large with thick, dense scales, and the scales of gray and Coulter pines are armed with sharp, recurved spines. The seeds of all three species are large, and those of gray and Torrey pines are nearly wingless. In contrast, the Sierra Nevada pines have small to medium-sized seeds with large wings that are initially dispersed by the wind. Heavy wing loading of the Sabinianae pine seeds causes them to fall rapidly, and they are not dispersed far by wind. However, animals remove the fallen seeds rapidly, and rodents and jays scatter hoarded many seeds in the soil. This caching activity results in seedling establishment. The unusual morphology of the cones and seeds of the Sabinianae pines is interpreted as a combination of traits that attract animal dispersers, thwart the foraging activities of seed predators, and promote the survival of seeds in an environment subject to frequent fires.
40305652|Additive influences of the invasion ability of species (invasiveness) and the characteristics of the habitat which make it invasible (invasibility) cannot fully explain grassland invasion patterns. We tested the hypothesis that different species assemblages of grassland communities may partly result from interactive influences between the relative invasiveness of available species and community invasibility. During 10 months, we evaluated seed and microsite limitation of seedling emergence, survival, and recruitment of plants belonging to species with different seed size (large-seeded species vs. small-seeded species), with in a two-phase community mosaic typical of seminatural grasslands in the southern flooding Pampa of Argentina. Seeds of large versus small-seeded species were sown either in species-poor patches dominated by a tall tussock grass ("pajonal") or in species-rich patches dominated by short grasses ("matrix"), subjected to different levels of canopy disturbance (cut vs. uncut). Seed addition promoted seedling emergence for 7 out of the 10 species sown, and this effect was higher for large than for small-seeded species. After seed limitations were removed, interactive effects among seed size, community state and canopy disturbance reflected a strong positive influence of seed size on plant recruitment only in cut pajonal patches. Therefore, according to the stage of invasion process, relative species success may depend on non-interactive (seed-size effect on seed limitation to seedling emergence) or interactive influences among species invasibility and community invasiveness (from seedling emergence to plant recruitment). As a general conclusion, different assemblages of species are expected to successfully colonize spatially close grassland patches, according to both the available invasible species (seed size) and the community state and stage (species composition and canopy disturbance).
20146478| Seedling recruitment in many highly serotinous populations of Pinus coulteri on California's central coast depends almost entirely on periodic, stand-replacing fire. Compared to serotinous pines of the Mediterranean Basin, little detailed information is available on the postfire demography of California closed-cone pines, including P. coulteri. In September 1996 a wildfire burned the 760-ha American Canyon Research Natural Area (RNA). Using aerial photography, we mapped burn severity of P. coulteri-chaparral woodlands and forests within the RNA. From May to September of 1997, we also quantified seedling establishment and mortality in relation to biophysical site characteristics including fire severity. Seventy-six percent of P. coulteri forests and woodlands experienced high-severity burns, 9% moderate-severity burns, and 15% low-severity or unburned. Of the 53 plots used for seedling counts, 70% were high-severity, 26% moderate-severity, and 4% low-severity. Seedling densities 13 months postfire were low (0.21 m), but seedling mortality also was low (8.4%). Aerial seed bank size increased from north-facing to south-facing slopes and from high-severity to low-severity burns. Seedling recruitment was unrelated to burn severity and increased with the size of the canopy seed bank (cone density). Many seedlings established from rodent seed caches; 23% of the seedlings established in clumps from seeds cached by Dipodomys agilis, Chaetodipus californicus and Peromyscus maniculatus. Pinus coulteri seeds have low potential for dispersal by wind, but secondary dispersal by rodents moves seeds away from source trees and into neighboring chaparral. We discuss the potential importance of rodent seed caching to postfire demography of California and Mediterranean serotinous pines. 
41508837|Habitat fragmentation and invasion by exotic species are regarded as major threats to the biodiversity of many ecosystems. We surveyed the plant communities of two types of remnant sagebrush-steppe fragments from nearby areas on the Snake River Plain of southeastern Idaho, USA. One type resulted from land use (conversion to dryland agriculture; hereafter AG Islands) and the other from geomorphic processes (Holocene volcanism; hereafter kipukas). We assessed two predictions for the variation in native plant species richness of these fragments, using structural equation models (SEM). First, we predicted that the species richness of native plants would follow the MacArthurWilson (M-W) hypothesis of island biogeography, as often is expected for the communities of habitat fragments. Second, we predicted a negative relationship between native and exotic plants, as would be expected if exotic plants are decreasing the diversity of native plants. Finally, we assessed whether exotic species were more strongly associated with the fragments embedded in the agricultural landscape, as would be expected if agriculture had facilitated the introduction and naturalization of non-native species, and whether the communities of the two types of fragments were distinct. Species richness of native plants was not strongly correlated with M-W characteristics for either the AG Islands or the **kipukas. The AG Islands had more species and higher cover of exotics than the kipukas, and exotic plants were good predictors of native plant species richness. Our results support the hypothesis that proximity to agriculture can increase the diversity and abundance of exotic plants in native habitat. In combination with other information, the results also suggest that agriculture and exotic species have caused loss of native diversity and reorganization of the sagebrush-steppe plant community.
20146493|We present a numerical classification of 2145 objectively sampled relevs from the entire forest area of Austria (Central Europe). The sample sites were selected by a combined method involving a systematic matrix and stratified random sampling. A TWINSPAN classification led to 32 clusters which are described in detail. Three main groups can be distinguished: (1) Alpine-dinaric coniferous forests on carbonate soils, (2) Coniferous forests on acid soils and (3) Deciduous forests. These groups correspond with accuracy to the classes Erico-Pinetea, Vaccinio-Piceetea and Querco-Fagetea in the traditional Braun-Blanquet system. Thus, the value of the Braun-Blanquet approach is supported by more or less objective sampling and numerical classification methods. The assumption of the objective existence of ecological species groups is strongly supported, too. Moreover, our results may help to solve some controverse points discussed in the European forest classification regarding the delimination between the three mentioned classes.
20146838| The successional affinity of nine woody species was inferred from the structure, diversity and disturbance history of the vegetation where these occurred. This was done in order to obtain a basis for a restoration experiment, currently in execution, in the dry Andean dwarf forest zone on the edge of the High Plain of Bogot (Colombia), at 2600-2950 m.a.s.l. We laid out 101 relevees in grassland and shrubland types in different stages of recovery, and in relatively little disturbed endemic Condalia thomasiana dwarf forest. The disturbance history of sites over the last 60 years was inferred from aerial photograph series (1941-1991). CCA and logistic regression were applied to relate species composition to diversity, environment and disturbance history. All species showed a preference for certain structural groups. Also, a clear relation between species occurrence and vegetation diversity was found. Baccharis macrantha, and Dalea coerulea appeared relatively tolerant to grazing, while the remaining seven species reacted negatively. Soil clay content, base availability and organic carbon content was also an important factor for occurrence of each species. Invasion of grasslands by woody species is pioneered by Baccharis macrantha and followed by Dodonaea viscosa. Dalea coerulea was predominantly found on truncated clayey soils, which will probably not support Condalia dwarf forest. The hypothesized classification of the nine planted species to either pioneers or late-successional was fine-tuned. This exploratory study will be of use in the set-up of future succession-based restoration experiments, and for converting exotics afforestations to natural vegetation. 
40305505|The aim of this study was to analyse the regeneration of Pinus pinaster after wildfire and the possible inter and intraspecific competition during the first 3 years after fire. The study area is located in a P. pinaster stand in Len province (NW Spain). Three study sites (SI, S2 and S3) were established in an area burned in 1998. In each site, three permanent plots (20 x 1 m) were marked. A total of 20 quadrats of 1 m 2 were studied in each plot. The number and height of pine seedlings 1, 2 and 3 years after fire was recorded in each quadrat. The regeneration of understorey vegetation in the quadrats was analysed concurrently. The significance of linear correlations among the number and height of seedlings and understorey vegetation cover was tested by calculating Pearson correlation coefficients. Seed germination and seedling emergence took place massively during the first year after the fire and decreased through time. The height growth was constant over the 3 years at site S2, while a growth burst could be observed between years 2 and 3 at sites SI and S2. Also, pines from site S2 reached shorter maximum heights in all years compared to pines from site SI and S3. The understorey vegetation showed minimal regeneration during the first year but then increased greatly with time. Woody understorey cover and total vegetation cover were negatively correlated with pine seedling density in sites with a high number of seedlings (e. g. SI and S3). When woody cover, total cover and pine seedling density were low (e. g. S2), there were no correlations. There was a positive correlation between vegetation cover and the maximum height of Pinus seedlings in all study sites.
20050836|Vegetation throughout the southwestern United States has changed from perennial grassland to woody shrubland over the past century. Previous studies on the development of 'islands of fertility' focused primarily on only the most limiting, plant-essential element, soil nitrogen (N). The research presented here addressed the question of whether other plant-essential elements, namely phosphorus (P) and potassium (K), showed similar concentration gradients under the desert shrub Larrea tridentata, creosotebush. It also examined whether the spatial distribution of N, P, and K differed from that of essential, but non-limiting nutrients, namely calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), and sulfur (S), and non-essential elements, namely sodium (Na), chloride (Cl), and fluoride (F). Within adjacent grassland and shrubland plots, surface soils were collected under and between vegetation and analyzed for a suite of soil nutrients. Soil nutrient distribution followed a uniform pattern that mirrored the spatial homogeneity of bunch-grasses in the grassland, but followed a patchy distribution that mirrored the spatial heterogeneity of individual shrubs in the shrubland. The main differences were that in the grassland, all elements were uniformly distributed, but in the shrubland the plant-essential elements, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, were concentrated under the shrub canopy, and the non-limiting and non-essential elements were either concentrated in the intershrub spaces or were equally concentrated under shrubs and in the interspaces. Our results show how vegetation shifts from grassland to shrubland contribute to long-term, widespread change in the structure and function of desert ecosystems.
20146869| Carex humilis is a clonal sedge that can form distinct rings of densely aggregated ramets. We hypothesize that rings form because both production of new ramets and ramet dispersal are positively correlated to ramet size. This would lead to an overrepresentation of fast-moving and large ramets with high ramet production at the periphery, whereas slow-moving and small ramets with low ramet production would mainly be found in the interior of rings. We use matrix models to analyse how ramet populations both at the periphery and in the interior develop in the absence of ramet dispersal. We found that the stable size class distributions of ramets predicted by the models were not different from the distributions found in the field. Also, the asymptotic ramet population growth rates () were the same. Hence, we conclude that rings would form even in the absence of a link between ramet dispersal and ramet production. Further analysis of the matrix models showed that the ramet population increases at the periphery but decreases in the interior of rings because medium and large ramets produce fewer large ramets in the interior than at the periphery. We also found that the temporal variance in  and transitions rates during the four study years was much higher at the periphery than in the interior. Our results suggest that rings may form because C. humilis ramets use below-ground resources from a much larger area than the one covered by the shoots. As the clone grows larger, the soil volume available to the ramets in the interior decreases because their access to soil outside the ring is cut-off by the ramets at the periphery. Ramet density in the interior is therefore decreasing. 
20146936|We examined effects of abandonment on species diversity and species composition by comparing 21 calcareous fen meadows in the pre-alpine zone of central and northeastern Switzerland. Meadows were divided into three classes of successional stages (mown: annually mown in late summer, young fallow: 4-15 years, and old fallow: &gt15 years of abandonment). In each fen, we measured litter mass in four 20 cm20 cm plots, as well as (aboveground) biomass and species density (number of species per unit area) of bryophytes and vascular plants. Bryophyte biomass was reduced in abandoned fens, whereas litter mass and aboveground biomass of vascular plants increased. Species density of both taxonomic groups was lower in abandoned than in mown fens. Young and old successional stages were not different except for bryophytes, for which old successional stages had higher species density than young stages. We used litter mass and aboveground biomass of vascular plants as covariables in analyses of variance to reveal their effects on species density of both taxonomic groups. For bryophytes, litter mass was more important than vascular plant biomass in explaining variance of species density. This indicates severe effects of burying by litter on bryophyte species density. For species density of vascular plants, both vascular plant biomass and litter mass were of similar importance in explaining the decreased species density. Canonical correspondence analyses showed that abandonment also had an effect on species composition of both bryophytes and vascular plants. However, young and old successional stages were not different indicating fast initial changes after abandonment, but slow secondary succession afterwards. Furthermore, indicator species analysis showed that there was no establishment of new species after abandonment that might dramatically alter fen communities. Re-introduction of mowing as a nature conservation strategy may thus be very promising -- even for old fallows.
20146358| The growth dynamics and mode of competition between adult trees  5.0 cm in diameter at breast height (DBH) of nine abundant tree species occupying ca. 85% of the total basal area were investigated in a 4 ha study plot (200 m  200 m) of a warm-temperate old-growth evergreen broad-leaved forest in the Tatera Forest Reserve of Tsushima Island, southwestern Japan. In the plot, adult trees  5.0 cm DBH co-occurred with 35 woody plant species (except for woody vine species). The most dominant and largest species, Castanopsis cuspidata var. sieboldii exhibited a bimodal DBH distribution; it was found in both the upper and lower vertical layers. Other tree species had unimodal DBH distributions corresponding mostly to the lower vertical layer. We developed a model for individual growth incorporating both intra- and interspecific competition and degree of competitive asymmetry. One-sided interspecific competition was detected in 17 cases out of the 66 possible combinations on the scale of the 4 ha study plot. The direction of interspecific competition was generally one-sided from layer-I species to layer-II and III ones. The effects of two-sided competition were detected only in layer-II and III species. Only Distylium racemosum exhibited one-sided intraspecific competition. We also found 11 cases of positive interspecific relationships. Generally, competitive relationships prevailed over positive relationships between adult trees in this warm-temperate evergreen broad-leaved forest. Competition between adult trees  5.0 cm in DBH did not occur in the same vertical layer, but occurred only between trees in different vertical layers. This suggests that competition between adult trees  5.0 cm in DBH plays a key role in the variation in species coexistence between different vertical layers on the 4 ha scale of the warm-temperate evergreen broad-leaved forests. Moreover, it was found by comparing with three different forest types that interspecific competition is more intense in warm-temperate forests than in cool-temperate or sub-boreal forests. We conclude that, compared to cool-temperate or sub-boreal forests (which have little interspecific competition), warm-temperate forests support more complex interspecific relationships and species-specific habitat preferences that result in higher species diversity. 
20146884| This study evaluated the relationships among soil moisture, soil salinity, and soil oxygen on the growth of Helianthus paradoxus (Asteraceae), a threatened inland salt marsh species of western North America. The study was conducted in large growth boxes (120.3 m) tilted at an angle to achieve a saturated to dry water gradient similar to that found in the marsh. This experimental design allowed the evaluation of major abiotic factors (soil moisture and soil salinity) which have been shown to be potentially important for this species, while removing major biotic factors, such as competition from other community dominants. Maximum aboveground biomass occurred in the middle rows of the boxes, where surface soil water was reduced and subsurface soil water was intermediate in the gradient. Regression analyses indicated that H. paradoxus would grow best where surface soil water is approximately 5%, subsurface soil water ranges from 20 to 30%, and where surface soil salinity is less than 0.5 g kg. Edaphic variables, particularly soil moisture and soil salinity, affect the growth of H. paradoxus. Data presented here suggest that the survival of this species depends on maintenance of the hydrologic regime. 
40305745|Heterodichogamy is a form of sex expression in which protandrous and protogynous individuals coexist, and is considered to be a mechanism that avoids selfing and promotes disassortative mating. We examined mating patterns in a heterodichogamous maple, Acer mono, using microsatellite markers. Parentage analysis revealed a selfing rate of only 9.8%. Disassortative mating between flowering types significantly exceeded within-type mating, but the mating patterns were better explained by flowering phenology (i. e., the temporal overlap between the female and male stages). Heterodichogamy in A. mono thus appears to promote outcrossing without requiring obligate self-or cross-incompatibility systems, although it did not guarantee disassortative mating. Multiple-regression analysis suggested that successful reproduction of pollen parents significantly increased with increased flower production and reciprocal flowering synchrony, but decreased only marginally with mating distance, although the distribution of mating distances suggested leptokurtic dispersal of pollen.
41686755|To investigate the effect of increased nutrient availability on competition amongst invasive and native plants, I measured changes in above and below ground biomass of Chrysanthemoides monilifera spp. rotundata (bitou bush) and Asparagus aethiopicus (asparagus fern) competing with two native species, Banksia integrifolia and Ficinia nodosa, under high- and low-nutrient regimes. Bitou bush, as a primary invader, was competitive under all conditions lowering the growth of native species in both high and low nutrients. Asparagus fern as a secondary invader, did not influence growth of native species but responded, like bitou bush, to high nutrients. Native species were generally negatively affected by increases in nutrients. With bitou bush soils often providing higher nutrients, the chance of secondary invasion by asparagus fern is more likely, although asparagus fern is unlikely to invade low nutrient soils quickly. The invasive species, therefore, differed in their competitive ability in these coastal dune communities.
23362422|Previous research has found that plant diversity declines more quickly in exotic than native grassland plots, which offers a model system for testing whether diversity decline is associated with specific plant traits. In a common garden experiment in the Southern Great Plains in central Texas, USA, we studied monocultures and 9-species mixtures of either all exotic or all native grassland species. A total of 36 native and exotic species were paired by phylogeny and functional group. We used community-level measures (relative abundance in mixture) and whole-plant (height, aboveground biomass, and light capture) and leaf-level traits (area, specific leaf area, and C:N ratio) to determine whether trait differences explained native-exotic differences in functional group diversity. Increases in species' relative abundance in mixture were correlated with high biomass, height, and light capture in both native and exotic communities. However, increasing exotic species were all C 4 grasses, whereas, increasing native species included forb, C 3 grass and C 4 grass species. Exotic C 4 grasses had traits associated with relatively high resource capture: greater leaf area, specific leaf area, height, biomass, and light capture, but similar leaf C:N ratios compared to native C 4 grasses. Leaf C:N was consistently higher for native than exotic C 3 species, implying that resource use efficiency was greater in natives than exotics. Our results suggest that functional diversity will differ between grasslands restored to native assemblages and those dominated by novel collections of exotic species, and that simple plant traits can help to explain diversity decline.
40212889|Aquatic plant communities in arid zone wetlands underpin diverse fauna populations and ecosystem functions yet are relatively poorly known. Erratic flooding, drying, salinity and turbidity regimes contribute to habitat complexity, creating high spatial and temporal variability that supports high biodiversity. We compared seed bank density, species richness and community composition of aquatic plants (sub-mergent, floating-leaved and emergent) among nine Australian arid zone wetlands. Germinable seed banks from wetlands within the Paroo and Bulloo River catchments were examined at nested scales (site, wetland, wetland type) using natural flooding and salinity regimes as factors with nondormant seed density and species richness as response variables. Salinity explained most of the variance in seed density (95%) and species richness (68%), with flooding accounting for 5% of variance in seed density and 32% in species richness. Salinity-flooding interactions were significant but explained only a trivial portion of the variance (<1%). Mean seed densities in wetlands ranged from 40 to 18,760 m and were highest in wetlands with intermediate levels of salinity and flooding. Variability of densities was high (CVs 0.61-2.66), particularly in saline temporary and fresh permanent wetlands. Below salinities of c. 30 g l TDS, seed density was negatively correlated to turbidity and connectivity. Total species richness of wetlands (6-27) was negatively correlated to salinity, pH and riverine connectivity. A total of 40 species germinated, comprising submergent (15 species), floatingleaved or amphibious (17 species), emergent (6 species) and terrestrial (6 species) groups. Charophytes were particularly important with 10 species (five Chara spp., four Nitella spp. and Lamprothamnium macropogon), accounting for 68% of total abundance. Saline temporary wetlands were dominated by Ruppia tuberosa, Lamprothamnium macropogon and Lepilaena preissii. Variable flooding and drying regimes profoundly altered water quality including salinity and turbidity, producing distinctive aquatic plant communities as reflected by their seed banks. This reinforces the importance of hydrology in shaping aquatic biological communities in arid systems.
20146443|Wildfires may be started naturally by lightning or artifically by humans. In the savanna regions of southern Africa, lightning fires tend to occur at the start of the wet season, during October and November, while anthropogenic fires are usually started during the dry season, between July and August. A long-term field manipulation experiment initiated in the Kruger National Park in 1952 was used to explore whether this seasonal divergence affects tree abundance, spatial pattern, size and architecture. After 44 years of prescribed burning treatments that simulated the seasonal incidence of lightning and anthropogenic fires, mean densities of the locally-dominant shrub, Colophospermum mopane, were 638 and 500 trees ha respectively. Trees in burnt plots had aggregated distributions while trees in unburnt plots had random distributions. Significant differences (p &lt 0.001) were recorded in a range of morphological parameters including tree height, canopy diameter, mean stem circumference and number of stems. The incidence of resprouting also differed significantly between treatments, with burnt trees containing a high proportion of coppiced stems. The differences in tree size and architecture between the mid-dry season and early-wet season burning plots suggest that anthropogenic fires applied during July and August cannot substitute for a natural lightning fire regime. Anthropogenic fire yields a landscape that is shorter, more scrubby and populated by numerous coppiced shrubs than the landscape generated by natural lightning fire conditions.
20146429|Monotypic stands of reed canary grass, Phalaris arundinacea, replace native wetland vegetation where storm-water runoff alters hydrologic conditions, nutrient inflows, and sedimentation rates. We asked if different hydrologic conditions could explain the dominance of Phalaris and/or loss of the native grass, Spartina pectinata, and we compared the growth of each species alone and together under four hydroperiods (varying inundation frequency and duration) each at two water depths (surface saturation and flooding to 15 cm). When grown alone, aboveground biomass was similar for the two species, but Phalaris produced twice the stem length of Spartina via its low tissue density. Per unit biomass, Phalaris distributed its leaves over a larger canopy volume. Flooding reduced belowground biomass and increased total shoot length and shoot:root biomass of each species. Phalaris produced the most biomass, shoots, and total shoot length when wetter and drier conditions alternated weekly, while Spartina grew best with prolonged (4-week) inundation. When grown with Spartina, Phalaris changed its morphology by increasing its total shoot length:biomass ratio by 50%. However, ratios of Spartina:Phalaris aboveground biomass, shoot number, and total shoot length in two-species pots were not significantly affected by water depth or hydroperiod. We conclude that two plant attributes facilitate Phalaris' dominance of wetlands: its high ratio of total shoot length:biomass and its adaptable morphology (characterized herein as increased total shoot length:biomass when grown with Spartina).
40212990|Gaps in grassland created by animals are often sites for species regeneration. The persistent seed banks of ant-hills and surrounding soils in a calcareous grassland in southern Britain were compared and analysed in terms of seed mass and longevity. The relative abundance of species on ant-hills compared to the pasture was highly correlated with seed abundance in ant-hill soil. The abundance of plant species on ant-hills compared to the pasture was significantly negatively correlated with seed mass, and positively correlated with seed longevity. These results suggest that germination from the seed bank in ant-hill soils, as well as limited seed dispersal and vegetative invasion, contributes to the distinctive ant-hill vegetation. The same may apply to other gaps created by animals in grasslands.
20146424|Invasibility depends on the interaction of the introduced species with the abiotic and biotic factors of the recipient community. In particular, the biotic resistance posed by native herbivores has been claimed to be of great importance in controlling plant invasion. We investigated fruit and seed predation of two exotic Opuntia species within and between Mediterranean communities in order to determine how patterns of predation matched patterns of invasion. Predators were small mammals, presumably mice, which could consume more than 50% of the seeds produced. Predators could be equally effective in consuming fruit and single seeds. O. maxima fruits were slightly preferred to O. stricta fruits, but predators did not distinguish between seeds. Seed predation was more intense in invaded than in non-invaded communities. However, there was a high spatial variation in seed predation that did not always match patterns of invasion, suggesting that seed predation alone is not a good predictor of community invasibility to Opuntia. According to these results invasibility to Opuntia is limited in some (but not all) communities by native mice. Seed losses by predation were high for both species. However, we estimated that more than 75% of seeds dispersed by birds to non-invaded areas are not predated.
24553731|The interaction of environmental perturbations is an important, although a seldom studied feature, when evaluating factors influencing plant community structure and potential changes in the vegetation. Since environmental perturbations commonly occur in concert, there is a need for experimental investigations in which single, combined and interactive effects of environmental factors are studied. We studied interactive effects of N-fertilization (40 kg N ha1 year1) and disturbance, i.e. removing the vegetation and soil organic layers, in the forest-tundra ecotone in northern Finland during 20022005. Plant abundances were measured in a coniferous forest, mountain birch forest and tundra heath. Both N-fertilization and disturbance reinforced the proportion of deciduous (Vaccinium myrtillus) and the graminoids (i.e. Deschampsia flexuosa and Carex sp.) at the expense of evergreens in vegetation. N-fertilization also enhanced the post-disturbance recovery of graminoids. Vegetation recovery was slow in the tundra heath, where N-fertilization decreased the abundance of the evergreen Empetrum nigrum ssp. hermaphroditum. Although the changes in vegetation due to the N-fertilization and disturbance could be detected, they did not change the initial dominance of plant functional types. Taken together, our results suggest that increasing N affects the rate rather than direction of recovery after disturbance. Moreover, plant communities differ in terms of their capabilities to respond to multiple perturbations which should be taken into account when evaluating future vegetation responses under changing environment in at high-latitude and high-altitude ecosystems.
20050619|The relationships between the composition of the soil seed bank, the field layer vegetation, and the scrub canopy were investigated along a 69 m transect, grading from incipient woodland, through scrub, into intensively rabbit-grazed calcareous grassland. The results are used to assess the persistence of species associated with open calcareous grassland in the seed bank under developing scrub. Scrub age, composition and density, changed along the transect from the woodland to open grassland. A total of 35 forb and grass species were found in the field layer. The pattern evident in the scrub layer was also reflected in the herbaceous vegetation. The field layer in the most closed portion of the transect, where the scrub was oldest, was dominated by shade-tolerant species normally associated with woodland habitats. The abundance of these species decreased along the transect as the scrub age declined, and the field layer became increasingly dominated by species typical of open grassland. A total of 47 species germinated from the seed bank. Few species were recorded in the seed bank along the entire length of the transect. Overall, the seed bank was dominated by Hypericum perforatum and Centaurium erythraea, which accounted for 38.2% and 28.6% of emerging seedlings respectively. As with a number of similar studies, the composition of the seed bank had a low correspondence with the composition of the field layer vegetation. The results also emphasise that the composition of the seed bank can be viewed as an 'ecological palimpsest', with germinable seed of species from each stage of the old-field succession occurring in the soil. The seed bank is an important component in the re-vegetation of an area after disturbance such as scrub removal. This study supports the findings of previous research in showing that relatively few characteristic calcareous grassland species form persistent seed banks. The soil seed bank would therefore appear to be of limited value in the restoration of such grassland following scrub removal.
40305545|We surveyed the prevalence and amount of leaf damage related to herbivory and pathogens on 12 pairs of exotic (invasive and noninvasive) and ecologically similar native plant species in tallgrass prairie to examine whether patterns of damage match predictions from the enemy release hypothesis. We also assessed whether natural enemy impacts differed in response to key environmental factors in tallgrass prairie by surveying the prevalence of rust on the dominant C grass, Andropogon gerardii, and its congeneric invasive exotic C grass, A. bladhii, in response to fire and nitrogen fertilization treatments. Overall, we found that the native species sustain 56.4% more overall leaf damage and 83.6% more herbivore-related leaf damage when compared to the exotic species. Moreover, we found that the invasive exotic species sustained less damage from enemies relative to their corresponding native species than the noninvasive exotic species. Finally, we found that burning and nitrogen fertilization both significantly increased the prevalence of rust fungi in the native grass, while rust fungi rarely occurred on the exotic grass. These results indicate that reduced damage from enemies may in part explain the successful naturalization of exotic species and the spread of invasive exotic species in tallgrass prairie.
40305492|The impact of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) on plant ecosystems has been intensively reported. In this research, we explored the difference between native and introduced AMF in promoting the growth of dominant and subordinate plant species. In glasshouse experiments, dominants and subordinates from subtropical grasslands were colonized by native AMF or introduced AMF, Glomus versiforme. The biomass revealed that mycorrhizal dependencies (MD) on the native AMF of the dominants were much higher than those of the subordinates, while MD on the introduced AMF changed following the replacement of native AMF with introduced AMF. A close relationship between biomass promotion and increase in phosphorus uptake was observed, indicating the important role of AMF-enhanced nutrient acquisition by roots. Our results show that plant community structures are partly determined by MD on native AMF, and could be modified by introducing exogenous AMF species.
20146820|Physiological integration and foraging behavior have both been proposed as advantages for clonal growth in heterogeneous environments. We tested three predictions concerning their short- and long-term effects on the growth of the clonal perennial sedge Schoenoplectus pungens (Pers.) Volk. ex Schinz and R. Keller: (1) growth would be greatest for clones with connected rhizomes and on heterogeneous soil, (2) clones would preferentially place biomass in the nutrient-rich patches of a spatially heterogeneous environment, and (3) physiological integration would decrease a clone's ability to forage. We tested our predictions by growing S. pungens clones for 2 years in an experimental garden with two severing treatments (connected and severed rhizomes) crossed with two soil treatments (homogeneous and heterogeneous nutrient distribution). Severing treatments were only carried out in the first year. As predicted, severing significantly decreased total biomass and per capita growth rate in year one and individual ramet biomass both in year one and the year after severing stopped. This reduction in growth was most likely caused by severing damage, because the total biomass and growth rate in severed treatments did not vary with soil heterogeneity. Contrary to our prediction, total biomass and number of ramets were highest on homogeneous soil at the end of year two, regardless of severing treatment, possibly because ramets in heterogeneous treatments were initially planted in a nutrient-poor patch. Finally, as predicted, S. pungens concentrated ramets in the nutrient-rich patches of the heterogeneous soil treatment. This foraging behavior seemed enhanced by physiological integration in the first year, but any possible enhancement disappeared the year after severing stopped. It seems that over time, individual ramets become independent, and parent ramets respond independently to the conditions of their local microsite when producing offspring, a life-history pattern that may be the rule for clonal species with the spreading "guerrilla" growth form.
20146847| Vascular plant responses to experimental enrichment with atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO), using MINIFACE technology, were studied in a Dutch lowland peatland dominated by Sphagnum and Phragmites for 3 years. We hypothesized that vascular plant carbon would accumulate in this peatland in response to CO enrichment owing to increased productivity of the predominant species and poorer quality (higher C/N ratios) and consequently lower decomposability of the leaf litter of these species. Carbon isotope signatures demonstrated that the extra 180 ppmv CO in enriched plots had been incorporated into vegetation biomass accordingly. However, on the CO sequestration side of the ecosystem carbon budget, there were neither any significant responses of total aboveground abundance of vascular plants, nor of any of the individual species. On the CO release side of the carbon budget (decomposition pathway), litter quantity did not differ between ambient and CO treatments, while the changes in litter quality (N and P concentration, C/N and C/P ratio) were marginal and inconsistent. It appeared therefore that the afterlife effects of significant CO-induced changes in green-leaf chemistry (lower N and P concentrations, higher C/N and C/P) were partly offset by greater resorption of mobile carbohydrates from green leaves during senescence in CO-enriched plants. The decomposability of leaf litters of three predominant species from ambient and CO-enriched plots, as measured in a laboratory litter respiration assay, showed no differences. The relatively short time period, environmental spatial heterogeneity and small plot sizes might explain part of the lack of CO response. When our results are combined with those from other Sphagnum peatland studies, the common pattern emerges that the vascular vegetation in these ecosystems is genuinely resistant to CO-induced change. On decadal time-scales, water management and its effects on peatland hydrology, N deposition from anthropogenic sources and land management regimes that arrest the early successional phase (mowing, tree and shrub removal), may have a greater impact on the vascular plant species composition, carbon balance and functioning of lowland Sphagnum-Phragmites reedlands than increasing CO concentrations in the atmosphere. 
20146555| Nectar production in angiosperms is considered to represent a reproductive cost, and has been associated with a decrease in fruit set or an overall decrease in the energetic budget of the plant. Populations of Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana (honey mesquite) are a suitable system to evaluate the demographic costs of nectar production, as populations are composed of a 1:1 proportion of nectarful to nectarless individuals. The study was carried out in a population of 404 individuals of Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana found in an area with differing water availability in the Southern Chihuahuan Desert. The possible costs of nectar production were assessed on 1212 shoots of the honey mesquite that were tagged in 1994 and followed until 1998. We used two methods of analysis to describe the effect of nectar production on modular population dynamics: matrix analysis and log-linear models. Water availability and the varying environmental conditions affected plant growth, but nectar production did not have an effect on the demographic parameters we measured. The values of  did not differ between nectar morphs and the only important effects we detected were the year to year variation in precipitation and microclimate differences at each site. Furthermore, the elasticity of each demographic process (growth, fecundity, retrogression and stasis) between nectar morphs did not differ. The log-linear models suggested a similar pattern but could discriminate the importance of each factor (nectar morph, year and site) on module fate. We were not able to detect a demographic cost of nectar production in the honey mesquite. The absence of a demographic response could be due to the negligible cost of producing nectar for this species or that the resources allocated for growth are different from those allocated for reproduction. Our results suggest that the modular fates of mesquites are mainly determined by environmental factors. 
20051242|Environmental heterogeneity, especially that related to topography, has been proposed to influence numbers of plant species in different sized areas. Despite little variation in elevation, large numbers of vascular plant species occur in some habitats. This study explored possible relationships between number of plant species and substrate heterogeneity in two species-rich habitats, subtropical pine savannas and short-hydroperiod prairies, in the Long Pine Key region of Everglades National Park (Florida, U.S.A.). We examined relationships between numbers of vascular plant species and topographic heterogeneity by measuring numbers of species and elevations in different sizes of nested plots that spanned five orders of magnitude (0.1 m to 1000 m) and that were located along two transects extending from pine savannas into short-hydroperiod prairies in different areas of Long Pine Key. We also classified substrates and soil depths in 1 m sized submodules within the nested plots. Pine savannas occurred at higher elevations than adjacent short-hydroperiod prairies. Although differences occurred in substrate types and distribution within 1 m plots, numbers of species were not associated with these differences. Variances in elevations were similar in the smallest plots, but increased with area more rapidly in pine savannas than in short-hydroperiod prairies. Plot size explained about 85% of the variation in species numbers, which increased from 20-40 per 1 m to 80-120 per 1000 m. An interaction between habitat and scale explained 5% of the variation; more species occurred in short-hydroperiod prairies than pine savannas at scales &lt10 m, but the reverse occurred at scales &gt10 m. The number of species in pine savannas at scales of 1 m and 10 m was positively associated with variation in elevations; no significant relationships were obtained in short-hydroperiod prairies, which lack the fine-scale topographic variation of pine savannas. Our data indicate that substrate heterogeneity, measured as variation in elevations, is not likely to be involved in the co-occurrence of many species within small areas of these savannas, but may influence numbers of species at larger scales of observation, especially in pine savannas. Why many plant species occur within very small areas in these savannas remains un-answered.
41508833|In the present study, we describe the temporal and spatial variability in recruitment, growth, and mortality rates of seedlings and saplings of two low-density neotropical tree species, Dipteryx odorata and Copaifera reticulata in Eastern Amazonia, Brazil. As both species have important timber and non-timber uses, for each species we compare regeneration parameters among different management scenarios (sites used for timber logging, nontimber product extraction, and undisturbed forests). Results suggest that both species share similar natural regeneration characteristics. These include temporally and spatially asynchronous germination, existence of individuals that have more abundant and frequent fruit production than the average of the population and a positive influence of the mother tree crown on seedling and sapling density. The management activities analyzed did not influence the regeneration parameters of both species, which suggests that timber logging the way it was performed and current rates of D. odorata seed gathering and C. reticulata tapping at the study site are not sufficiently intense to threaten species population. However, some species characteristics, such as their reproductive strategies, light-demanding syndromes, low-dispersal ranges, and high-mortality rates of seedlings make both species vulnerable to exploitation.
20050671|Grassland patches within a semi-arid savanna were evaluated over 45-years for (1) local temporal dynamics of basal area for five dominant grass species within long-term heavily grazed and ungrazed treatments, (2) the influence of soil depth (resource availability) on vegetation dynamics, and (3) the applicability of community-level grazing response groups over fine-scale patterns of soil heterogeneity. Temporal patterns in species composition and basal area were dependent upon soil depth. In the heavy grazed treatment, Hilaria belangeri dominated deep soils while Erioneuron pilosum and Bouteloua trifida were restricted to shallow soils. In the ungrazed treatment, removal of grazing resulted in successional changes that were significantly different across soil depths. After 45 years without grazing, Eriochloa sericea was most abundant on deep soils while Bouteloua curtipendula was more abundant on intermediate and shallow soils. Community-level functional groups that are based on grazing were not appropriate when multiple pattern-driving variables were considered across multiple scales indicating that functional groups should only be applied to certain processes at specific scales. Within the ungrazed treatments, variable soil depths have resulted in a shifting mosaic in time and space where early- and late-successional species co-exist continuously but spatially separated within the community. In the heavily grazed treatment, species are somewhat spatially arranged by soil depths, but much of the inherent heterogeneity is eliminated and species composition is dominated by the three grazing-resistant short-grasses. Broad scale successional changes may appear linear and predictable while at finer scales, the same changes may be described as non-linear and dependent upon soil depth resulting in thresholds that are partially explained by weather patterns, seed bank limitations and competitive inhibitions.
20146483|Carapa guianensis Aubl. (Meliaceae), a hard wood tree from the Brazilian Amazon, has large recalcitrant seeds that can germinate and establish in both flood-free (terra-firme) and flood-prone (vrzea) forests. These seeds, although large, can float. This study was designed to experimentally examine seed longevity under floating conditions ex-situ and its effects on subsequent germination and seedling growth. Many seeds germinated while floating, and radicle protrusion occurred from 3 to 42 d after the start of the floating treatment (tap water, room temperature 20-30 C). Shoots of newly germinated floating seedlings may elongate up to 37.0 cm in 20 d without loss of viability. Epicotyl and first leaf emergence were delayed by floating. Seeds that did not germinate while floating were then placed on vermiculite and watered daily, where many seeds resumed germination. Germination during and after floating was affected by the length of the floating treatment: 88% germinated after 1 mo, 82% germinated after 2 mo and 70% germinated after 2.5 mo. These results indicate that Carapa guianensis has physiological variation regarding dormancy in response to seed floatation. The fact that floatation induces dormancy in recalcitrant seeds of this economically important species can be relevant to initiatives of ex situ storage of seeds.
40305564|We investigated the role of fire and other potential biotic and abiotic determinants for the occurrence of an obligate seeder and active pyrophyte, Cistus salviifolius, a vulnerable species in the Swiss Red List. Populations of this species are threatened by the change of fire regime that has occurred during the last ten years. Fires and burnt areas are today less frequent and it is not clear whether other factors can compensate for such fire-free periods should this trend continue. We used a stratified random design to collect data on the cover of three growth stages, i.e., juvenile, chamaephytic and nanophanerophytic (oldest), of C. salviifolius, on plant communities, and on environmental factors. A tree-based discriminant analysis showed that the time elapsed since last fire was the best predictor of Cistus occurrence, but plants could survive on rocky and sunny sites if no fire had occurred for more than 32 years. Contrary to our expectations, the number of fires and time elapsed since the last event was correlated with the oldest stages only, and not with that of seedlings or juveniles. Rank correlations showed that bare soil was a good predictor of young stages, whereas rocky outcrops and shallow soils were important for the chamaephytic stage. Our results confirm the role of disturbances and competition-free habitats as determinants of the survival of this vulnerable pyrophyte during long periods without fires and the existence of ontogenetic niche segregation of this species. In order to maintain viable C. salviifolius populations in the Alps, managers should undertake conservation actions according to the requirements of the different growth stages of this species.
40212852|The northern karst of Puerto Rico is a unique formation that contains one of the island's largest remaining forested tracts. The region is under ever-increasing human pressure, but large portions of it are being considered for conservation. Forest classification of the region is at a coarse scale, such that it is considered one vegetation type. We asked whether there were distinct tree assemblages which would necessitate targeted conservation strategies to ensure their protection. We examined tree species and communities across the region at three different major topographic positions along mogotes, or haystack-shaped hills. We found distinct tree communities on hilltops and valleys, with significantly more non-native species in valleys and significantly more endemic species on hilltops and hillsides. At a landscape level, we identified at least four different communities within each topographic position. Two mogote top communities were separated geographically (west and south) within the region, while two others co-occurred in the east-central part of the region. Mogote side and valley communities were less distinct geographically. Temperature, elevation, and precipitation were important variables in separating some communities, suggesting that abiotic stress may play an important role in the distribution of some species. In contrast, the lack of geographic separations of other communities suggested that variables such as soil conditions, land use and biotic interactions such as dispersal limitation may also be important. Conservation planning strategies should target the south, west, and east-central areas that harbor distinct mogote top plant communities to ensure protection of the widest range of tree species and communities in the karst region.
40305419|Disturbances and environmental heterogeneity are two factors thought to influence plant species diversity, but their effects are still poorly understood in many ecosystems. We surveyed understory vegetation and measured tree canopy cover on permanent plots spanning an experimental fire frequency gradient to test fire frequency and tree canopy effects on plant species richness and community heterogeneity within a mosaic of grassland, oak savanna, oak woodland, and forest communities. Species richness was assessed for all vascular plant species and for three plant functional groups: grasses, forbs, and woody plants. Understory species richness and community heterogeneity were maximized at biennial fire frequencies, consistent with predictions of the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. However, overstory tree species richness was highest in unburned units and declined with increasing fire frequency. Maximum species richness was observed in unburned units for woody species, with biennial fires for forbs, and with near-annual fires for grasses. Savannas and woodlands with intermediate and spatially variable tree canopy cover had greater species richness and community heterogeneity than old-field grasslands or closed-canopy forests. Functional group species richness was positively correlated with functional group cover. Our results suggest that annual to biennial fire frequencies prevent shrubs and trees from competitively excluding grasses and prairie forbs, while spatially variable shading from overstory trees reduces grass dominance and provides a wider range of habitat conditions. Hence, high species richness in savannas is due to both high sample point species richness and high community heterogeneity among sample points, which are maintained by intermediate fire frequencies and variable tree canopy cover.
40305776|We examined the effect of the invasive Solarium elaeagnifolium (Solanaceae) on flower visitation patterns and seed set of the co-flowering native Glaucium flavum (Papaveraceae). We observed flowering G. flavum plants in invaded and uninvaded sites and found that G. flavum flowers in uninvaded sites received significantly more total visits. In addition, we hand-pollinated flowers on plants of G. flavum with (i) pure conspecific pollen, (ii) pure 5. elaeagnifolium pollen and (iii) three different mixtures of the two types of pollen (containing 25, 50 and 75% invasive pollen). As a control, flowers were left unmanipulated or were permanently bagged. Seed set did not differ significantly between flowers receiving pollen mixtures and pure conspecific pollen. However, in the open pollination treatment, seed set was significantly lower than in the 100% conspecific pollen treatment, which suggests pollen limitation. Bagged flowers had very low seed set. G. flavum was generally resilient against the deposition of 5. elaeagnifolium pollen.
20147004| Qualea parviflora Mart. (Vochysiaceae) is a deciduous tree, commonly observed in campo sujo, cerrado sensu stricto and cerrado vegetation types in Brazilian cerrado (savannas). In this study we investigated herbivory, nutritional, and water status effects on leaf sclerophylly of Q. parviflora. Twenty fully expanded leaves were taken from 10 plants in each vegetation type four times a year. Mean leaf concentration of N, P, K, Ca, C, Al, Si, and percentage of total phenols, herbivory and tannins were measured on a plant basis. Leaf specific mass (LSM) (g m), a sclerophylly index, and pre-dawn leaf water potential (MPa) were also recorded. Soil samples below each tree were collected to quantify N-NO, N-NH, P, K, Mn, soil moisture, organic matter, Si, and Al. Qualea parviflora showed a LSM from 69 to 202 g m and leaves were younger and less sclerophyllous in November (beginning of rainy season). Q. parviflora inhabiting the cerrado had leaves with higher concentration of nutrients and lower sclerophylly while trees in campo sujo and cerrado sensu stricto did not show significant differences in leaf sclerophylly. The concentrations of N, P, K and tannins had an inverse relationship with leaf age. Concentration of phenols, Al, C, Ca, Si, C/N and Ca/K increased with leaf age. The concentrations of P and Ca/K ratio in leaves explained 60% of variation observed in leaf sclerophylly. We did not find any significant relationship between the level of sclerophylly and water potential or herbivory. Our results corroborate the hypothesis that predicts lower concentrations of essential macronutrients would be the main factors influencing higher sclerophylly in leaves of Q. parviflora plants in Cerrado. 
40212972|The floral biology and pollination process of Glechoma longituba (Nakai) Kuprian, a clonal gynodioecious, perennial herb that is widely distributed in China was investigated in natural populations. During visits to the flowers of G. longituba, the carpenter bee--Xylocopa sinensis mainly displayed nectar- robbing behavior with minimal pollination. Nectar robbing behavior began at the onset of flowering and continued for about 3 weeks ending at about the middle of the flowering period. A total of 18.6% floral visits in this period were by nectar robbers, with about 90% of the flowers in the study populations being subjected to two or two nectar-robbing episodes. During controlled experiments, lower pollination efficiency was recorded for X. sinensis compared to legitimate pollinators. Pollination by the robber-like pollinator X. sinensis during the early-mid phase of the flowering season yielded seeds of 16.16%. Although nectar robbing by the carpenter bee seemed to have a slight enhancing effect on seed set in G. longituba, this effect was effectively masked by the more pronounced detrimental effect of nectar robbing. Experiments indicated that nectar robbing by the carpenter bee reduced seed production by more than 26%, largely owing to the consequent shortening of the life span of robbed flowers. Furthermore, 10.43% of the ovules and 13.04% of the nectaries in the robbed flowers were damaged, thus causing a decrease or entire loss of reproductive opportunity in the robbed flowers. In addition, a higher number of pollen grains remained on the androecia of robbed flowers indicating that nectar robbing may have a lowering effect on male fitness in G. longituba.
20146511| We report on community structural, ecophysiological, phenological, and morphological measurements made on woody plant species in the high elevation pre-altiplano zone on the western slopes of the Andean Cordillera of northern Chile. Notwithstanding extreme conditions of low rainfall, high atmospheric vapour demand and diurnal temperature fluctuation, a diversity of habitats (associated with drainage and slope aspect), appreciable local plant species richness (28 woody perennial plant species in a small area), and an array of adaptive morphological ecophysiological and phenological traits are present among woody species in these shrublands. Family diversity was low with four families accounted for 82% of the species. A range of gas exchange and watering use efficiency strategies was present ranging from highly efficient CAM species with a carbon isotope discrimination () of 3.7-7.5 through C species with varying stomatal and gas exchange characteristics with a  of 14.4 to 19.8. Drought-deciduous small-leaved amphistomatic species from arid slopes generally had high stomatal conductance and high carbon assimilation rates during the rainy season. These drought deciduous species were largely leafless and, with one exception had low water potentials, during the dry season. Wash and less xeric site species commonly had broader evergreen to semi-evergreen leaves, higher dry season water potentials, and relatively consistent and moderate rates of gas exchange throughout the year. For all species, intrinsic water use efficiency (as estimated from the inverse of
40212859|Cephalocereus columna-trajani is a giant columnar cactus endemic of the Tehucan-Cuicatln Valley in Central Mexico. Stem tilting and northward pseudocephalium azimuth in C. columna-trajani have functional advantages in terms of interception of direct solar radiation at the northernmost portions of its range. Since the success of both characters strongly depends on the apparent position of the sun during the growing season, in this paper we test the hypothesis that the occurrence of such columnar morphology is restricted geographically and imposes mechanical restrictions that limit column height. Following a latitudinal gradient along the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Valley, we selected five populations, recorded tilting angle and pseudocephalium azimuth, and carried out allometric and biomechanical analyses of height-diameter relationships. Northern populations showed higher tilting angles. Pseudocephalium azimuth significantly differed among populations, and pseudocephalium orientation was consistently North-Northwestern. Stem allometry showed that the stems of the southern populations increased in height at a far greater rate with respect to diameter than the northern populations. The southernmost population showed the lowest safety factor. These results support the hypothesis that stem tilting in C. columna-trajani is functionally advantageous in a restricted geographical range, and imposes mechanical restrictions to column height.
20050803|Differences in palatability between 15 perennial dicotyledonous herbaceous plant species were investigated in a multiple choice test, involving three generalist herbivores. Palatability was compared with two categories of plant traits: defence characteristics and growth properties. On theoretical grounds, we expected a positive relationship between growth rate and palatability, and a negative relationship between palatability and defence traits. The possible effect of phylogeny on the outcome of the comparisons was investigated by analysing the data using phylogenetically independent contrasts. The three herbivores showed remarkably similar preferences, which indicates that the results of the choice experiment are a good representation of leaf palatability. The significant negative correlations found in a direct comparison between herbivore preference and relative growth rate, and between herbivore preference and lignin and dry matter content, did not hold after phylogenetic correction. On the other hand, one relationship emerged only when comparing phylogenetically independent contrasts: contrary to expectation, a negative relation was noted between juvenile growth rate and plant palatability. A possible explanation for the contradictory nature of this result is the uniformly ready availability of resources in our experiment.
20146721|During the 1997/98 ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation) event more than 5 million ha of East Kalimantan, Indonesia burned. Here we quantify the initial stages of regeneration (1998-2001), both in forest that burned and in unburned controls. Sapling and seedling density and species richness remained significantly lower in burned than in unburned forest and community composition remained substantially different between both forest types throughout the sampling period. The only pronounced edge effect was a significantly higher density of seedlings in the interior of unburned forest. Sapling density increased and seedling density declined in both unburned and burned forest during the four-year study period. In the unburned forest, sapling and seedling species richness remained stable, but sapling species richness declined significantly with time in the burned forest. The pioneer community in the burned forest was, furthermore, characterisedby higher growth and recruitment than in the unburned forest but mortality did not differ between both forest types. Differences in environment (burned versus unburned: 29-65% of variation explained) and the distance between sample sites (13-23% of variation explained) explained substantial amounts of variation in sapling and seedling community similarity. Similarity was, however, only marginally (&lt 1% explained) related to the edge position and temporal variation (difference among sample events). Our results, four years after the initial burn, indicate that burned forest still differed greatly from unburned forest in terms of density, species richness and community composition. There was also no clear trend of a return to pre-disturbance conditions, which indicates that the burned forest may remain in a severely degraded state for a prolonged period of time.
40305595|The critically endangered and perennial alpine endemic angiosperms, namely, Aquilegia nivalis, Lagotis cashmeriana and Meconopsis latifolia inhabit such habitats in the Kashmir Himalaya that are characterised by short growing season and heavy snow cover for about 34 months during winter season. The seeds of these species under natural conditions experience a long period of pre-chilling during winter prior to their germination in following spring season. Taking cue from such a requirement, present study investigated the effect of chilling and exogenous application of growth hormones, NO and NH on total percent germination of otherwise deep-dormant seeds of these species, under alternate light/dark and continuous dark light regimes. Prolonged pre-chilling followed by treatment of seeds with different doses of GA had a pronounced stimulatory effect on the total germination percentage in all the three species. In fact, highest germination percentage in A. nivalis was recorded only when prechilled seeds were treated with 1.5 mM GA 3 under alternate light/dark conditions. Likewise, germination of pre-chilled seeds of L. cashmeriana with ruptured seed coats was improved when treated with various concentrations of GA. Seed germination in M. latifolia was also favourably influenced by treatment of pre-chilled seeds with GA 3 or nitrogen applied either as NO or as NH under alternate light/dark conditions. Treatment of seeds with kinetin (6-furfuryl-aminopurine) had no significant influence on germination percentage in any of the three species. Thus, prolonged chilling of seeds followed by their treatment with GA under alternate light/dark conditions are the requirements necessary for seed germination in these species.
20146904|We studied the physical and temporal isolation of two arthropod guilds interacting with Drosera anglica Huds., a terrestrial carnivorous plant. Flowers are separated from basal trap leaves by a leafless stalk. Since arthropods are potentially employed both as prey and pollinators, we asked whether separation of traps from flowers reduces the frequency with which flower visitors are captured by the leaves. Plants captured prey throughout the season, with peak trapping activity occurring before flowering began. The diverse prey spectrum included at least 109 species in 94 genera in 26 of 37 identified families representing 11 arthropod orders. The most common prey were adult flies of Nematocera, particularly Ceratopogonidae (50%) and Chironomidae (42%). The following taxa were periodically abundant: Acarina, Diptera-Cecidomyiidae, Chloropidae, Sciaridae, Hemiptera nymphs and Thysanoptera-Thripidae. Flies (Diptera) were chief flower visitors (95%), dominated by Syrphidae (66%), Bombyliidae and Muscidae (10% each), Calliphoridae (7%), Tachinidae and Dolichopodidae (3% each). Additionally, visitors were a bee (Hymenoptera-Halictidae) and thrips (Thysanoptera-Thripidae). Four families were common to both guilds: Diptera-Dolichopodidae, Muscidae, Tachinidae; and Thysanoptera-Thripidae. However, direct comparisons of identified taxa within these families showed that overlap between flower visitors and prey occurred for Thrips sp. larvae alone, which comprised only 3% of all flower visitors and 0.5% of prey. Drosera anglica exploits distinct guilds of insects for pollinators and prey.
20146353|We used multivariate analysis and ordinations to characterize the composition and distribution of woody vegetation within the Ozark National Scenic Riverways (ONSR), Missouri, USA. The objectives of the study were to: 1) evaluate patterns of woody species distributions along existing environmental gradients; 2) determine if different classes of woody plants (i.e., dominant overstory trees, all trees, understory trees, and shrubs) responded similarly to the same suite of environmental variables; and 3) determine if discrete ecotonal and/or ecoclinal vegetation patterns were present across the landscape. Woody vegetation was sampled from 94 plots along 35 transects positioned at right angles to the river channel. Sample plots were analyzed with Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA), Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA), and TWINSPAN. Overall, woody vegetation was correlated with several environmental gradients, including elevation of the plot above the river, soil pH, soil moisture, and soil particle size. Responses to secondary gradients differed among the four classes of plants analyzed, however. CCA biplots of understory trees indicated that patterns of those species were strongly correlated with slope through the plot and sand content of soil. CCA biplots of shrubs showed that CCA axes were most strongly correlated with soil organic matter content, soil moisture, and silt content. Further, there was limited evidence for discrete assemblages of woody species, with the exception of streamside vegetation. Instead, mixing of woody species was observed across a broad transition zone. Because there is little correspondence between vegetation layers, our results demonstrate including plant classes other than a subset of canopy dominant trees can provide additional resolution in characterizing vegetation responses along complex environmental gradients.
20051112|Pocket gopher (Geomyidae) disturbances are created in spatially predictable patterns. This may influence resource heterogeneity and affect grassland vegetation in a unique manner. We attempt to determine the extent to which density and spatial pattern of soil disturbances influence tallgrass prairie plant community structure and determine how these disturbances interact with fire. To investigate the effects of explicit disturbance patterns we created simulated pocket gopher burrows and mounds in various spatial patterns. Simulated burrows were drilled into the soil at different densities in replicated plots of burned and unburned prairie. Separate plots of simulated mounds were created in burned and unburned prairie at low, medium, or high mound densities in clumped, uniform, or random spatial dispersions. In both burned and unburned plots, increased burrow density decreased graminoid biomass and increased forb biomass. Total-plant and graminoid biomass were higher in burned than unburned plots while forb biomass was higher in unburned plots. Total-plant species richness was not significantly affected by burrow density or burning treatments, but graminoid species richness increased in unburned plots and forb species richness increased in burned plots. Plant species richness was temporarily reduced directly on mound disturbances compared to undisturbed prairie. Over time and at larger sampling scales, the interaction of fire and mound disturbance patterns significantly affected total-plant and graminoid species richness. The principal effect in burned and unburned prairie was decreased total-plant and graminoid species richness with increased mound disturbance intensity. Although species richness at small patch scales was not increased by any intensity of disturbance and species composition was not altered by the establishment of a unique guild of disturbance colonizing plants, our study revealed that interactions between soil disturbances and fire alter the plant community dominance structure of North American tallgrass prairie primarily via changes to graminoids. Moreover, these effects become increasingly pronounced over time and at larger spatial sampling scales.
41508815|Evergreen broadleaved forests (EBLF), the zonal forest ecosystem of the subtropical zone in east China, have been degraded from recent anthropogenic disturbance. Understanding the role of past disturbances in EBLFs would be helpful to the restoration of degraded EBLFs. We used dendroecological techniques to reconstruct the disturbance history of a secondary EBLF dominated by Schima superba and Castanopsis carlesii in Tiantong National Forest Park (2948'N, 12147'E), Zhejiang Province, East China. The disturbances were inferred from tree-ring growth release and long-term establishment patterns obtained from 91 overstory trees. The initial growth rates of these trees were compared to trees originating in the understory to evaluate the intensity of past disturbances. The spatial distribution patterns of disturbances were portrayed with tree mapping. The results revealed that there were five disturbances, averaging one disturbance per decade over the past half century. The first disturbance event was probably most intense given that most canopy trees established at that time and displayed high initial growth rates. The timing of the second disturbance event coincided with the documented selective logging. The last three disturbances, having lower tree growth responses and a clumped spatial distribution of gap creation, were probably the result of recurring typhoons. The first two disturbances led to tree regeneration and secondary succession, represented mainly by long-lived deciduous trees in the forest. The subsequent disturbances facilitated the stand development process, creating a complex three-dimensional structure from a pre-existing single-age cohort. This study suggests that EBLFs affected by large disturbances can recover in a few decades and the frequent gap disturbances probably facilitate its process in the early successional stages.
20050410|Exposure of postmitotic growing and non-growing cells of the unicellular green alga Micrasterias denticulata to different UV-B cut-off wavelengths together with simulated sunlight in a sun simulator has revealed a marked resistence of the algae against strong irradiation. While down to a cut-off wavelength of 284 nm irradiated during the most sensitive stage of cell development chloroplast ultrastructure remains unaffected, severe changes in arrangement and structure of stroma and grana thylakoids occur only at the lowest cut-off wavelengths of 280 and 275 nm. The structural alterations end up in a more or less complete desintegration of grana and stroma thylakoids with the remaining membraneous structures appearing in negative staining thus indicating drastic changes in membrane composition. Photosynthetic activity determined by chlorophyll fluorescence (ratio of variable to maximal fluorescence) and oxygen evolution responded more sensitively to UV-B irradiation. With decreasing UV cut-off wavelengths and prolonged incubation a decrease of photochemistry of PS II occured reaching its lowest values after 60 min at 275 and 280 nm. Oxygen production was even maintained under strong UV irradiation with a cut-off wavelenght of 275 nm up to 15 min. With prolonged UV-B treatment any activity was lost. HPLC separations of pigments exhibited the appearance of break-down products (mainly derivatives of chl b and chl a) with decreasing cut-off wavelength and increasing exposure time. The xanthophyll cycle pigments seemed to be unaffected at least for an irradiation period of 60 to 90 min at low UV cut-offs. Possible mechanisms of UV stress avoidance or protection are discussed with regard to the varying altitudes of the natural habitats of the algae.
40305701|Seed bank densities respond to factors across local to landscape scales, and therefore, knowledge of these responses may be necessary in forecasting the effects of climate change on the regeneration of species. This study relates the seed bank densities of species of Taxodium distichum swamps to local water regime and regional climate factors at five latitudes across the Mississippi River Alluvial Valley from southern Illinois to Louisiana. In an outdoor nursery setting, the seed banks of twenty-five swamps were exposed to non-flooded (freely drained) or flooded treatments, and the number and species of seeds germinating were recorded from each swamp during one growing season. Based on ANOVA analysis, the majority of dominant species had a higher rate of germination in non-flooded versus flooded treatments. Similarly, an NMS comparison, which considered the local water regime and regional climate of the swamps, found that the species of seeds germinating, almost completely shifted under non-flooded versus flooded treatments. For example, in wetter northern swamps, seeds of Taxodium distichum germinated in nonflooded conditions, but did not germinate from the same seed banks in flooded conditions. In wetter southern swamps, seeds of Eleocharis cellulosa germinated in flooded conditions, but did not germinate in non-flooded conditions. The strong relationship of seed germination and density relationships with local water regime and regional climate variables suggests that the forecasting of climate change effects on swamps and other wetlands needs to consider a variety of interrelated variables to make adequate projections of the regeneration responses of species to climate change. Because regeneration is an important aspect of species maintenance and restoration, climate drying could influence the species distribution of these swamps in the future.
20050447|Evidence is presented which suggests that the spinescence of leaves of European holly, Ilex aquifolium, deters feeding by ungulates and is induced by browsing. Spinescence decreased as leaf size increased; hence, spinescence may be achieved by reducing adult leaf size. Holly shrubs with very spiny leaves were browsed less often than less spiny shrubs. In the absence of browsing ungulates during a one year period, the spinescence of leaves of holly shrubs significantly decreased. Browsed shrubs exhibited reduced annual shoot growth, increased branching, and produced smaller leaves with high spinescence. The regrowth on browsed branches of holly trees was characterized by increased leaf spinescence relative to unbrowsed branches. Hence, the induced response was localized, thereby reducing the ability of browsing ungulates to exert selective pressures on holly trees.
20146781|The moss Pogonatum dentatum has expanded its distribution in Fennoscandia from mountainous areas into the lowlands. This recent expansion appears to be associated with changes in important life-history parameters in female shoots. We examined shoot age and size at first production of sex organs and mature spores in P. dentatum to investigate this phenomenon. Female shoots produced mature spores for the first time in the lowlands in their second year but in their third year in the mountains. However, sex organs were produced by second year plants in both areas. There was no size difference between the mountain and lowland female shoots at the time of spore production. Among mountain females reproducing for the first time, 41% of the shoots branched, making them potentially 'iteroparous'. Branching was not observed among lowland females. Male shoots showed no difference in production of sex organs, and were produced by second year shoots in both areas. Female shoots in the lowlands have earlier spore production and exhibit 'semelparous' behaviour by not producing branches. This suggests that the lowland phenotypes of P. dentatum are more 'invasive' than the mountain phenotypes. Earlier studies showing high rates of diaspore establishment in lowland areas also support this observation.
20050472|The argument that selective grazing leads to competitive replacement of palatable grasses by unpalatable grasses is based upon the assumption that the competitive ability of the palatable species is higher than the one of unpalatable species in the absence of grazing. In order to test this hypothesis we have compared the competitive ability of Stipa clarazii (palatable) and S. trichotoma (unpalatable) under field conditions, and S. clarazii and S. gynerioides (unpalatable) under greenhouse conditions. The three species are native to a temperate semi-arid grassland of central Argentina. In the field experiment, plants of both species were grown either independently or in pairs (palatable + unpalatable), protected from grazing. Shoot and seed production were measured at the end of the growing seasons of 1993, 1994 and 1995. In the greenhouse experiment, plants of both species were grown in pots, either in monoculture or in mixture, under conditions of high and low water and mineral nutrient availability. Total biomass and seed production were measured at the end of the experimental period. In both experiments the presence of the unpalatable species did not affect (P &gt 0.05) the productive responses of the palatable species. On the contrary, the presence of the palatable species significantly reduced (P &lt 0.05) the productive responses of the unpalatable species. Our results support the assumption, on which most interpretations of floristic changes induced by grazing are based, that the competitive ability of palatable grasses is higher than the one of unpalatable grasses in the absence of grazing.
20146734|Classification of riverbed geomorphic surfaces based on flooding frequency was conducted and the relationship between their distribution and river morphology was analyzed, to provide an understanding of the structure and species composition of riparian forests dominated by Chosenia arbutifolia. The channel floors of two contrasting river morphologies (bar-braided and incised meandering channels), were divided into five geomorphic surfaces (gravel bar, lower and upper floodplains, secondary channel, and terrace) based on the water level of a 2-yr and a 20-yr recurrence interval. The environmental variables of the same geomorphic surfaces showed similar trends regardless of braided and meandering channel morphology, but differed significantly among the five geomorphic surfaces, which influenced the dominance of tree species. The geomorphic surface map based on recurrence interval of flood and physiognomical vegetation map based on aerial photos appeared almost identical. Geomorphic surface distribution, determined by river channel dynamics and the sediment transport processes occurring at a larger scale and a longer time frame, played an important role in shaping the structure and composition of the riparian forests. C. arbutifolia dominated gravel bar, and the upper and lower floodplains, because these geomorphic surfaces were characterized by gravelly soils which have lower soil moisture availability than soils of other geomorphic surfaces. Thus, an extensive distribution of C. arbutifolia in the braided channel section can be attributed to the frequent lateral migrations of river channels, which resulted in a high ratio of gravel bars, and lower and upper floodplains. In order to preserve indigenous plant communities in riparian zone, dynamic nature and processes of braided rivers should be maintained.
40212958|Large-scale biodiversity informatics projects will not properly address the needs of one important potential user group. Ecologists do not have ready access to datasets which allow them to assign plant species to functional types. We believe that information technology has developed sufficiently to allow taxonomists and ecologists to work together to address this need and develop specimen databases to combine taxonomic data with ecological and ecophysiological information so that this information will be assigned to the correct taxon in the future. Digital images provide a rapid and economical method of vouchering specimen data, reducing the need to store physical vouchers in herbaria.
40802527|Pollen limitation reduces seed production and may reduce plant population growth rate. Plants may be particularly prone to pollen limitation if they require pollinators, occur at high elevation, and have human-mediated reductions in plant density due to harvesting. We found that two rare monocarpic Tibetan plant species, known as the Himalayan Snow Lotus, both require pollinators and that seed production in Saussurea medusa (Asteraceae) but not S. laniceps is limited by pollen receipt. We created deterministic and stochastic stage-structured matrix models for S. medusa, and found that pollen supplementation significantly increases population growth rate. However, even when pollen is not limiting, S. medusa is likely at risk for extinction in the next 50 years. Our results for this monocarpic plant differ from other population studies on pollen limitation in polycarpic plant species since the magnitude of pollen limitation for seed production was relatively low, and yet the sensitivity of population growth to changes in seed production was relatively high.
20146500|In Mediterranean ecosystems, as well as in other fire prone ones, seedling establishment by some species is particularly favorable right after fire. It has been well established that many plants from these ecosystems have enhanced germination after exposing their seeds to heat or to chemicals related to the passage of fire. Less known it is how variable is this germination response among seeds from different sources (populations, individuals within a population, or parts of the plant within an individual) and whether such differences persist after exposing the seeds to germination-triggering, fire-related cues. In this work we studied the germination response to several fire-related factors of the Mediterranean, lignotuberous shrub Erica australis. This species produces a very combustible fuel, and resprouts vigorously after fire, but conditions for seedling establishment are poorly known. The objective of this study was to evaluate how variable was the germination response of this species among seeds from different sources, and whether this variability changed after exposing the seeds to fire-related factors. Seeds from three different sites, from different individuals at each site, and from different branches within each individual were set to germinate under control conditions or after exposing them to heat or to additions of nitrogenous compounds. Germination was highly variable among populations, individuals within populations or branches within individuals. Exposure to moderate heat promoted germination, but high temperatures were lethal. Differences at the various provenance levels were, however, also observed after heat exposure. Germination of seeds exposed to nitrogenous compounds increased, but differences among populations were always significant. These results indicate that the germination of Erica australis may be linked to disturbances, but it does not seem to be particularly related to passage of fire. On the contrary, this type of response appears more common in plants from heterogeneously disturbed environments.
41508781|Field abandonment has increased over several decades under a long-term recession in Japanese agriculture. To support effective farmland management or reforestation, the patterns of tree recruitment in abandoned fields, which influence management costs, need to be clarified. We investigated tree seedling establishment and microsite variables along forest-field transects in 11 abandoned fields adjacent to secondary broad-leaved forests in the eastern Kanto region of Japan. Generalized linear mixed model analysis indicated that tree seedling establishment in abandoned fields was not correlated with the period of abandonment. Instead, it was positively correlated with vegetation openness. The dominance of a woody vine (Puerana lobato), an annual liana (Humulus japonicus), and a dwarf bamboo (Pleioblastus chino) mainly explained low vegetation openness within the fields. In addition, the establishment of evergreen tree seedlings and tree seedlings dispersed by hoarding was negatively correlated with the distance from the forest edge. In the forest interior, taller understory vegetation at the edge correlated with lower seedling establishment. These results suggest that seedling establishment across forestfield ecotones is restricted by the dominance of competitive natives within abandoned fields and distance-dependent limitations in both abandoned fields and adjacent forest.
41508778|This article evaluates the seed dispersal systems of two congeneric and endemic fleshy-fruited plants in the context of two relatively close oceanic archipelagos. For this purpose, representative populations of the endangered junipers Juniperus cedrus in the Canary Islands and Madeira, and Juniperus brevifolia in the Azores were studied. Despite both species sharing the same biogeographic region, we set out to test whether different conditions of the islands and biological characteristics of each juniper species determine the distinctive guilds of seed dispersers involved. We assessed the quantitative and qualitative role of the potential frugivores, showing that the wintering Turdus torquatus and the native Turdus merula were the main seed dispersers for J. cedrus and J. brevifolia, respectively (Frequency of occurrence: 74.9%, 80.2%; germination increase with respect to controls: 11.6%, 15.5%; for J. cedrus and J. brevifolia, respectively). The endemic lizard Gallotia galloti was quantitatively outstanding as seed disperser of J. cedrus, although its qualitative effect does not appear to be beneficial. The introduced rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus acts as a disruptor in both natural seed dispersal systems, as inferred from the high percentage of damaged seeds found in their droppings. Our results indicate that J. cedrus and J. brevifolia are primarily adapted to ornithochory processes, T. torquatus and T. merula being their respective legitimate long-distance dispersers. Although these birds should be playing a key role in the connectivity of fragmented populations, the dependence of J. cedrus on a migrant bird involves a notable fragility of the system.
20050839|Seed germination and seedling/juvenile fitness in the cleistogamous perennials Viola hirta, V. mirabilis, and V. riviniana were investigated during three growing seasons, to compare the performance of chasmogamously (CH) and cleistogamously (CL) derived progeny. For V. hirta and V. mirabilis the effects of sibling competition were examined, for V. riviniana the effects of interspecific (grass) competition. Seed abortion and seed weight were also taken into account as fitness measures. In none of the species, seed abortion rate differed between CH and CL capsules. In V. mirabilis and V. riviniana, CL seeds had a lower germination rate than CH seeds. In V. hirta the two seed types did not differ in germinability. Mortality did not differ between the two seedling types in any of the species. In V. hirta and V. riviniana, CL progeny had shorter mean length of largest leaf than CH progeny. In V. mirabilis plant size did not differ between progeny types. Sibling competition had little effect on offspring performance, but grass competition increased mortality and reduced plant size of V. riviniana progeny. The two progeny types did not differ in their response to sibling and grass competition. The differences in performance between progeny types could be attributable to inbreeding depression in the CL phase, but the slightly lower fitness of CL offspring is probably balanced by their lower production costs. It is suggested that a dimorphic reproductive system is maintained in perennial Viola species to maximize total seed output in the face of environmental variation.
20051152|Deceptive fruits (fruits containing empty seeds and seedless fruits) in the dioecious shrub Pistacia lentiscus L. (Anacardiaceae) remain attached to the plant throughout the dispersal season. This study addresses the hypothesis that deceptive fruits may contribute to parental fitness by reducing predispersal seed predation by granivorous birds because these fruits represent handling costs to predators and they prefer to forage selectively on shrubs with filled fruits. This study was run in two populations of P. lentiscus and finds that deceptive fruits reduce seed predation by granivorous birds but only in the population that presented higher P. lentiscus female density, and a higher variability in the percentage of deceptive fruits among P. lentiscus females. Under this scenario, the benefits of flying to another female might be higher than those of remaining in the same female searching filled seeds. By contrast, the costs of flying to other females, when they are scarce and have a similar percentage of deceptive fruits may be higher than the benefits.
20146833|In many dioecious plant species in which spatial distributions of males and females have been examined, the sexes are spatially segregated -- usually along an environmental gradient. Unless pollen is uniformly distributed in a population, spatial segregation of the sexes should reduce the average mating success of individuals. In three Californian populations of Distichlis spicata -- a wind-pollinated grass species that exhibits spatial segregation of the sexes - I examined patterns of pollen movement and the effects of pollen load and nutrient availability on seed set to determine whether spatial segregation of the sexes actually reduces mating success for both males and females. In two of the populations, pollen dispersal was restricted, and pollen augmentation consistently, significantly increased seed set. However, in the third population -- which had the lowest seed set - I found that although there were some indications of pollen limitation, pollen dispersal was not restricted, and seed production was limited primarily by nutrient availability. These results imply that in some populations of D. spicata nutrient limitation on the production of seeds by females may be sufficiently strong that spatial segregation of the sexes causes a fairly low cost to reproductive success compared with a more random distribution of the sexes. However, in other populations, pollen does limit mating success, and the spatial segregation of males and females in these populations is reducing the fecundity of both males and females.
20050513|Juncus gerardi populations demonstrated a logistic growth curve during the colonization stage. Shoot production by vegetative multiplication was virtually continuous from December to June. Experiments suggested that the stabilisation stage of the demographic curve reflected water deficit. Taller, fertile, winter and early spring cohorts could be distinguished from shorter, infertile end of spring and beginning of summer cohorts. Shoot emergence began in March and terminated at the end of June, when water becomes a limiting factor due to a period of water shortage, typical of the thermo-atlantic climate. Spatial extension of populations was due to rhizome growth, which ceased during flowering. Flowering in May temporarily checked growth in shoot height of all emerged cohorts. No cost of reproduction was demonstrated concerning the rate of appearance of new shoots. Although fertile shoots were taller than vegetative shoots, their growth rates were significantly lower from April onwards. The tallest fertile shoots produced the most capsules. Energy allocation to seed production is the only possible means for long-term establishment of new genotypes, and vegetative multiplication appears as the principal source of recruitment of new modules in Juncus gerardi. Resource allocation patterns in this clonal species are discussed in relation to the ecological background in the concerned marshlands and with theoretical proposals derived from models of spatial colonization strategies in clonal plants.
24553692|Plantpollinator interactions are one of the most important and variable mutualisms having major implications for plant fitness. The present study evaluates the interactions between an endemic milkwort, Polygala vayredae, and its floral visitors by studying the temporal variability, foraging behaviour and effectiveness of floral visitors in three populations during three consecutive years. The flowers were visited by a diverse array of insects, totalling 24 different species. However, only four species were effective pollinators, depositing pollen on stigmas after one visit, while the remaining species behaved as nectar robbers, secondary nectar robbers or nectar thieves and were completely ineffective for pollination. Among the effective pollinators, two groups with distinct foraging behaviours were observed: the nectar collecting long-tongued bees Bombus pascuorum and Anthophora sp. and the pollen collectors Eucera longicornis and Halictus sp. No significant differences were observed among pollinators in their efficiency in pollen deposition on stigmas, but significant differences were observed in the foraging behaviour between nectarivorous and pollen collectors. Variation in the abundance and assemblage of floral visitors was observed at the temporal scale and among populations, with the effective pollinators being generally scarce. Consequently, the reproductive outcome in this species was low and significantly variable among populations and years. The results highlight the importance of studying floral visitor effectiveness when determining pollinator assemblages.
20050487|The relationships between topographic features and the relative abundances of vegetation types were analyzed for the mid-montane conifer forests, the upper montane conifer forests and the alpine areas of Lassen Volcanic National Park in the Cascade Range of northern California using Landsat Thematic Mapper data. Vegetation types were identified from Landsat Thematic Mapper data and included pine, fir, montane chaparral, willow/alder and herbaceous communities. Topographic features including aspect, slope steepness, slope configuration (i.e., convex, straight or concave) and slope position (i.e., ridge top to valley bottom) were computed from USGS Digital Elevation Models. The distribution of montane chaparral was consistent with its dependency on fire with chaparral communities being more abundant on more xeric aspects and on steeper and more xeric slope configurations. Slope position was important in determining the distribution of willow/alder communities which were more abundant in valley bottom locations. Both slope steepness and slope position affected the abundance of herbaceous communities. Herbaceous communities were: (1) more prevalent on steeper slopes due to the distribution of dicotyledonous forb species; and (2) more abundant in valley bottoms due to the distribution of monocotyledonous species in wet meadows. Pines and firs were separated along a gradient of slope steepness with the firs being more abundant on steep slopes and the pines being more abundant on shallow slopes. In the alpine areas above 2350 m, the abundance of most vegetation types declined with increasingly mesic aspects. This decline may be related to the prolonged persistence of snow in areas of less intense solar radiation.
40305530|Willows usually establish on wet substrates with fine sediments at sites that are created by large disturbances, but suitable microsites are spatially and temporally limited. Thus, we hypothesized that willow seeds are selectively dispersed to suitable microsites, such as those with a wet substrate, rather than unsuitable microsites, such as those with a dry substrate, with seedling establishment mediated by the cottony hairs attached to seeds (directed dispersal). To test our hypothesis, we compared several recruitmentrelated traits, including buoyancy, germination, and trapping at favorable microsites, in seeds of the riparian willows Salix sachalinensis and S. Integra with and without cottony hairs in laboratory and field experiments. In both field and laboratory experiments, more seeds with cottony hairs were trapped in water and wet sand than in dry sand, in which no seeds of either species germinated. These results indicate that cottony hairs facilitate the recruitment of seeds to microsites favorable for seed germination and help seeds avoid unfavorable microsites. On the water surface, 17.6% of S. sachalinensis seeds and 68.0% S. integra seeds with cottony hairs floated for more than 6 days, whereas all seeds without cottony hairs sank immediately after being placed on the water surface. These results suggest that cottony hairs facilitate long-distance dispersal via flowing water and also help avoid germination under water, where willow seedlings fail to establish. Seeds of the two willow species were released from the cottony hairs and germinated immediately after the seeds were placed on wet sand, but not after placement on water or dry sand. These results suggest that the seeds are released from the cottony hairs when the hairs become wet and the seeds are striking to a suitable microsite for seedling establishment, such as wet sand. In riparian willows, the cottony hairs promote directed dispersal by moving seeds to discrete and predictable microsites where the seedling establishment is disproportionately high.
20146940|The role of harvester ants in Mediterranean grassland and scrubland has mostly focused on seed consumption. However, recent studies have reported their role as accidental dispersal agents of some of the collected seeds via refuse piles. The objective of this study is to examine the effect of the ant Messor barbarus on seed availability and dispersal of one of its major diet components, Lavandula stoechas subsp. pedunculata, in scrubland, grassland and the ecotones between them. After confirming and quantifying the Lavandula contribution to M. barbarus diet, we described the spatial and temporal patterns of pre- and post-dispersal seed predation, seed content and seedling occurrence in the refuse piles. Our results show that: (1) Lavandula propagules constitute a high proportion of the prey items collected by M. barbarus, with particularly intense collection activity in mid-summer, spring and autumn, in decreasing order. (2) Pre-dispersal predation rate was significantly higher in the ecotone than in the scrubland (76% and 13.5% of total seed production lost respectively). (3) Season and propagule type (seed vs. fruit) were the most significant variables explaining the post-dispersal predation probability, which approached 100% of seeds after 48 h in mid-summer. (4) Viable Lavandula seeds were found in refuse piles at densities of 0.06-0.2 per g of refuse pile material, or 58.8-207.2 per refuse pile. On the one hand, these results indicate that the ecotones are most affected by M. barbarus pre-dispersal consumption, which may locally limit Lavandula colonisation. On the other hand, the small proportion of consumed seeds that is dispersed to refuse piles may be relevant at the population level, as this dispersal implies arrival at potentially favourable sites for establishment.
20146927|In addition to effects mediated by resource competition, some invasive plants may impact surrounding vegetation by secreting compounds that are directly inhibitory to growth. Lonicera maackii, an invasive Asian shrub of forests and open areas in eastern and midwestern North America, has devastating effects on understory vegetation, some of which persist even after this shrub is removed. In this study, we explored the potential of aqueous extracts of the leaves and roots of this plant to inhibit seed germination of Impatiens capensis, Alliaria petiolata, Arabidopsis thaliana, and L. maackii in Petri dish bioassays. Both L. maackii root and leaf extracts significantly decreased germination in the three herb species. This inhibitory effect generally increased with increasing extract concentration and was more pronounced with application of leaf extract than root extract. However, when the same extracts were applied to seeds of L. maackii itself, germination was delayed in some cases, but was not significantly reduced by the end of the experiment. Germination of L. maackii seeds even reached significantly higher levels in some extract treatments than in no-extract controls. This implies that L. maackii can successfully inhibit the germination of other plants with few autotoxic effects and may even promote the germination of its own seeds.
20146777| The water status of Fagus sylvatica L. and Quercus petraea (Matt) Liebl. was analysed during a cycle of progressive natural drought in southern Europe. Predawn (
20146923|Fire has been shown to stimulate seed germination in a number of fire-prone ecosystems, mainly in Mediterranean type shrublands and, though not exclusively, in hardseeded species. Stimulation by heat, or by chemical constituents of charred wood and smoke, have been identified as the main mechanisms breaking dormancy of soil-stored seeds. In this study, we experimentally tested the effect of heat on germination rates of nine herbaceous species (5 grasses, 1 Cyperaceae, 3 forbs) from frequently burned grassland in southern Brazil. Seeds were exposed to temperatures between 50 C and 110 C (to 180 C for two species) for 2 min. Germination of treated seeds was monitored in a germination chamber. The heat treatments did not stimulate germination in any of the species tested. Tolerance of seeds to heat varied between species. Two of the herbs and the three grasses with the smallest seeds were able to germinate at temperatures of 110 C, or even higher. Apparently, no mechanisms directly stimulating germination by heat have developed in herbaceous species from southern Brazil. However, survival of high temperatures can be considered to be an adaptation to fire, possibly allowing for increased germination in the post-burn environment.
40802522|Leaf traits functional relationship is particularly important in plant ecological strategies, but few data are available from Mediterranean highaltitude environments. We analysed leaf general patterns and leaf trait relationships in 84 perennial species on the High Atlas, Morocco. We examined the correlation amongst leaf size, leaf width and length, plant height and seed size, analysed multi-trait relationships using Structural Equation Models and tested leaf size variation amongst growth forms (functional groups). Species spanned 10 range of leaf size (sub-lepto-to microphylls). Nanophylls (48.8%) were dominant and over-represented in half-shrubs. Tree and rosette herbs were more likely to have large leaf size (nano-micro-and microphylls), whereas shrubs have medium leaf size (nano-micro-and nanophylls) and cushion and half-shrubs have small (sub-lepto-to nanophylls) and narrow leaves. Smallleaved species synchronized their leaf phenological activity with the dry summer months (May-August), and large-leaved species extended throughout the spring until the end of summer following the similar patterns found in lowland Mediterranean environments. Regarding woody species, our results showed a positive and significant relationship between leaf size and plant height and a non-significant relationship between leaf size and seed size. Structural Equation Models showed that variation in leaf size was triggered chiefly by changes in leaf form (leaf width) and plant height, seed size being of no relevance. In our study area, large-seeded species have a relatively wide range of leaf size. The hypothesis that the combination of large seeds and small leaves is allometrically unlikely (except for leptophyll Conifers) was supported in this study.
41429359|Tree invasions of grasslands are occurring globally, with profound consequences for ecosystem structure and function. We explore the spatio-temporal dynamics of tree invasion of a montane meadow in the Cascade Mountains of Oregon, where meadow loss is a conservation concern. We examine the early stages of invasion, where extrinsic and intrinsic processes can be clearly delineated. In a 0.21-ha plot, we mapped and aged 929 trees > 0.3-m tall, yielding a detailed record of the spatio-temporal dynamics of invasion. For the primary species, Abies grandis and Pinus contorta, we correlated age structures (unimodal in both species) with climate (precipitation, temperature, and snowpack) and cone production, but found weak or nonsignificant relationships. Evidence of biotic interactions within and between species was obtained by examining the spatial associations of trees to a distance of 5 m and how these changed over time. We used multiple methods including uni-and bivariate forms of the Ripley's K and pair-correlation function (pcf) (corrected for inhomogeneity), the J-function, an evolving nearest-neighbor metric, and a test for directional bias in establishment. Pinus and Abies contributed in contrasting ways to the pace and spatial structure of invasion. Shade-intolerant Pinus tended to establish in the open, initiating clusters. In contrast, shade-tolerant Abies established in association with Pinus or in conspecific clusters. Preferential establishment of Abies to the north of older Pinus suggests that facilitation occurs by shading. The factors responsible for initial establishment remain unresolved, but positive interactions are pivotal in accelerating invasions, once initiated. Similar processes are likely to occur in other grasslands undergoing rapid conversion to woodland or forest. In combination, analyses of spatial and temporal patterns of establishment provide insight into the processes that structure invasions.
20051138|Many areas of ecological inquiry require the ability to detect and characterize change in ecological variables across both space and time. The purpose of this study was to investigate ways in which geographic boundary analysis techniques could be used to characterize the pattern of change over space in plant distributions in a forested wetland mosaic. With vegetation maps created using spatially constrained clustering and difference boundary delineation, we examined similarities between the identified boundaries in plant distributions and the occurrence of six species of songbirds. We found that vegetation boundaries were significantly cohesive, suggesting one or more crisp vegetation transition zones exist in the study site. Smaller, less cohesive boundary areas also provided important information about patterns of treefall gaps and dense patches of understory within the study area. Boundaries for songbird abundance were not cohesive, and bird and vegetation difference boundaries did not show significant overlap. However, bird boundaries did overlap significantly with vegetation cluster boundaries. Vegetation clusters delineated using constrained clustering techniques have the potential to be very useful for stratifying bird abundance data collected in different sections of the study site, which could be used to improve the efficiency of monitoring efforts for rare bird species.
40305794|The germination response of different sized seeds from individuals of a Mediterranean fireprone shrub (Cistus ladanifer) was investigated in relation to pre-germination heating. A control (no heating), a low temperature during a short exposure time (50C during 5 min), a high temperature during a short exposure time (100C during 5 min) and a high temperature during a long exposure time (100C during 15 min) were applied to seeds from different individual plants with different mean seed weight. These pre-germination treatments resemble natural germination scenarios for the studied species, absence of fire, low intensity pasture fire, typical Mediterranean shrub fire, and severe fire with high fuel load. Mean seed weight only showed a marginally significant positive correlation with the proportion of germinated seeds whatever the pregermination treatment. These results suggest that seed dormancy is unrelated to seed size and that under the experimental conditions used in this study, the effect of seed size on seed germination is low. Nevertheless, larger seeds could be favoured in natural conditions, especially under the high competition scenario which arise after wildfires. Control seeds showed a negative correlation between seed size and germination velocity suggesting that lighter seeds could take advantage from early germination in recruitment events in the absence of wildfires. Nevertheless, even the lower pre-germination heating treatment turns this correlation in not significant, suggesting a strong selection pressure (unrelated to seed size) for early germination after fire events. In our study, different sized seeds of C. ladanifer seem to perform better under different germination scenarios suggesting that seed size variation could be maintained by the alternation of recruitments without wildfires and recruitments after wildfire events.
20050962|Previous studies in spatial distribution of male and female shrubs of Pistacia lentiscus have demonstrated that less perturbed areas, older communities with a well developed cover, have male-biased sex ratios, whereas in abandoned old agricultural areas there are no significant differences between the number of male and female plants. In this study, we analyse both sexes in terms of their photosynthetic features that could provide a physiological basis for habitat partitioning between sexes. Rates of light-saturated assimilation and stomatal conductance were studied in male and female plants during summer. Assimilation rates were higher in the morning than in the afternoon and mean daily maximum assimilation rates reached 10.9 and 6.6 mol
40305650|Plants with clonal growth can generate patches dominated by a single species. In time, patches can change and may fragment, form a ring, dissolve or both persist and expand. For patches to maintain their original habitat and simultaneously increase in size, ramets or clonal fragments must both promote local persistence inside the patch and grow out of the patch into new habitats. This study analyses simultaneously expanding and persistent Trifolium patches in a nutrient-poor lawn that is frequently cut, and where the Trifolium is competitively superior to the grass species. Trifolium primary stolon growth strategies were analyzed in relation to their location (border, middle, and center) inside the patch, and according to patch size (small, medium, and large). It was hypothesized that different growth strategies inside a patch can explain both persistent and expanding patch of Trifolium, and that growth strategies were different between patch sizes. Primary Trifolium stolons had two different growth strategies inside and at the border of patches: (i) stolons at the border were long, grew fast, had few lateral stolons, and grew out of the patch, while (ii) stolons inside the patch were smaller, grew slowly, and had more lateral stolons and a wide range of growth directions. Growth strategies were not different between patch sizes. The directional growth and the high growth rate at the border will increase the patch size with time, while the growth strategy near the center consolidates the patch in space and time, by placing ramets inside the patch. Different growth strategies near the center and on the border result in Trifolium patches that are simultaneously persistent and on the increase. The results also indicate a division of labor among primary Trifolium stolons in a patch.
20051161|We studied fleshy fruit consumption by birds on individual Prunus mahaleb trees in four plots in northwestern Spain. We found large variation among trees in the relative contribution of different bird species to fruit removal. This variation, which occurred on a scale of meters, was correlated with the distance from the tree to nests of Phoenicurus ochruros, a major fruit consumer, and with the kind of microhabitat surrounding each tree. In the four plots studied, trees located farther away from P. ochruros nests received fewer visits by this species, and relatively more by Turdus merula and Sylvia atricapilla. These three main consumer species differed in the kinds of microhabitats (rocks, loose stones, bare or grassy soil, and woody vegetation) where they flew after visiting P. mahaleb, and thus they probably created different patterns of seedfall. This study adds to the evidence that environmental factors extrinsic to plants, and acting at different spatial scales, greatly influence the identity of the fruit consumers visiting individual trees. This influence undermines the chances that fruit traits become evolutionary modified so as to attract those consumers providing the "best" seed dispersal services to the plants.
40666630|Soil water (W), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) availability were manipulated for 2 years in a factorial experiment in a semi-arid grassland in the southeastern Keerqin Sandy Lands, China, to determine what soil resource(s) limits plant growth. We quantified the responses of leaf chemical and anatomical traits for the dominant annual herb Chenopodium acuminatum in this ecosystem to test hypotheses about leaf form and function in relation to soil resource limitation. Nitrogen was the principal limiting factor, and  treatments (alone and in combination with W and P) elicited consistent increases in leaf size and decreases in leaf thickness and water content. Differentiation in the leaf mesophyll between palisade and spongy parenchyma was lacking in  deficient plants and stimulated in all + N treatments. The greater tissue density and cell packing may promote more efficient light capture with improved  nutrition. Mixed additions of W, N, and  were generally more advantageous to leaf expansion and nutrient balance than their isolated additions, therefore water and nutrients synchronous management would be a better approach to promote plant growth at the semi-arid region.
20051105|The idea that fecal material accompanying vertebrate-dispersed seeds at deposition sites plays an important role in enhancing seed germination and seedling survival has, surprisingly, little empirical support. The present study attempts to experimentally test this hypothesis. We examined the effect that manure composition from brown bears (Ursus arctos), important seed dispersers of Rubus spectabilis and Vaccinium ovalifolium/alaskaense in the temperate rainforests of Southeast Alaska, has on seedling emergence and growth of these two fleshy-fruited species in their natural habitat. The seeds of Rubus spectabilis showed a significantly higher germination rate in manure composed of animal material (mainly deer hair and bones) than in manure consisting of either fruit pulp or vegetation fiber and than in controls (potting soil with no manure added). The final number of germinated Rubus seeds was similar between the animal material and the fruit pulp treatments, perhaps due to similar water retention capacities, but was significantly higher than in the vegetation fiber treatment and the control. The germination patterns of Vaccinium seeds, in contrast, appeared to be unaffected by the composition of manure in which they were embedded. Seedlings of both species grew faster, and in the case of Rubus produced more leaves, when manure consisted of animal material. A principal constituent of bone is calcium phosphate, which may provide important minerals to growing plants. Manure containing vegetation fiber also enhanced seedling growth compared to manure with fruit pulp or the control. For Rubus, manure with fruit pulp did not affect seedling length significantly, although the number of leaves per seedling was greater in this treatment than in the control. We conclude that the influence of frugivores on the final fate of seeds of fleshy-fruited plants appears to depend not only upon commonly considered factors such as distance of dispersal, treatment in the digestive tract, and location of deposition, but also on what material the dispersed seeds are embedded in, i.e., on what other food frugivores have consumed along with the fruits.
40212978|We were interested in whether the contrasting regional distribution patterns of three congeneric, frequently co-occurring fern species (Dryopteris carthusiana, D. dilatata and D. expansa) could be explained by differential biomass allocation strategies and different phenotypic plasticities to light availability. The morphology and habitat preference of these ferns are known to be very similar, but in Estonia, their frequencies of occurrence differ sharply--Dryopteris carthusiana is common, D. expansa grows in scattered localities, and D. dilatata is rare. We grew the species under different levels of illumination (100, 50, 25 and 10% of full daylight) in an experimental garden to compare their autecological responses to shading. After one growing season there were clear interspecific differences in total plant biomass accumulation--D. carthusiana > D. expansa > D. dilatata--indicating the possible competitive inferiority of the latter at the young sporophyte stage. D. expansa was the least shade-tolerant, with biomass decreasing sharply under less than 50% illumination; D. dilatata was the most shade-tolerant, with similar growth at all illumination levels. In relative biomass allocation patterns, the most notable differences among species were in the relative shares of biomass stored in rhizomes. In D. carthusiana and D. expansa this share was nearly constant and independent of the illumination conditions. D. dilatata allocated very little biomass into rhizome in deep shade, but was able to increase this share more than twofold in 50% light. Dryopteris dilatata was clearly shown to be morphologically the most plastic of the three. In four traits--rhizome mass, frond: below-ground biomass ratio, stipe length and specific leaf area--its degree of ontogenetic plasticity to light was significantly higher than that of D. expansa and D. carthusiana. While the general performance (biomass production) of species in the experiment coincided with that observed in nature, the results of plasticity estimation were somewhat surprising--it is difficult to explain the inferior performance of a species (D. dilatata) through high morphological plasticity. Probably, the species is rare either because of certain climatic restrictions, or because it is presently expanding its distribution and is in the phase of invading Estonian understory communities.
40212848|Knowledge of ecological characteristics of rare species is important in assessing their threat status. Trillium reliquum is one of four globally vulnerable North American Trillium species. Yet little is known about the ecology and reproductive biology of T reliquum. Here we present the first description of the natural history and reproductive biology of T. reliquum. We observed the timing of emergence, flowering, fruit maturation, and seed dehiscence of a population in south-central Georgia (USA). In addition, we conducted a series of pollen manipulation experiments to assess the breeding system and pollen limitation. We found the life history of this species to be similar to other Trillium species; individuals progressed through four morphologically distinct life stages with increases in size and age. However, T. reliquum exhibited an earlier and shorter germination period than other Trillium species and many plants exist in a dormant state during the growing season. This species matured fruit equally well with either cross- or self-pollen and by apomixis. Seeds produced per fruit did not differ among reproductive treatments. The lack of differences in fruit and seed production among pollination treatments suggested there was no pollen limitation in 2004 for this population. The data we report here provide a baseline that can be used to generate assessments of the population stability of T. reliquum.
20146975| Altitudinal forest and climate changes from warm, dry valley bottom (1250 m a.s.l.) to cool, humid ridge top (3550 m a.s.l.) along the typical dry valley slopes of the Bhutan Himalaya were studied. Annual mean temperature decreased upslope with a lapse rate of 0.62 C100 m from 18.2 C at the valley bottom to 4.3 C at the ridge top. On the contrary volumetric soil moisture content increased from 14.7 to 75.0%. This inverse relationship is the major determinant factor for the distribution of different forest types along the altitudinal gradient. Based on the quantitative vegetation data from 15 plots arranged ca. 200 m in altitude interval (1520-3370 m a.s.l.), a total of 83 tree species belonging to 35 families were recorded. Three major formation types of lower and upper coniferous forests, and a mid-altitude evergreen and deciduous broad-leaved forest were contrasted. Including two transitional types, five forest zones were categorized based on cluster analysis, and each zone can be characterized by the dominants and their phytogeographical traits, viz. (1) west Himalayan warm, dry pine (1520-1760 m a.s.l.), (2) wide ranging east-west Himalayan mixed broad-leaved (1860-2540 m a.s.l.), (3) humid east Himalayan evergreen broad-leaved (2640-2820 m a.s.l.), (4) cool, humid east Himalayan conifer (2950-3210 m a.s.l.), and (5) wide ranging cold, humid conifer (3305-3370 m a.s.l.). Structurally, total basal area (biomass) increased from 15.2 m ha in the pine forest (1520 m) to 101.7 m ha, in the conifer forest (3370 m a.s.l.). Similarly, soil organic carbon increased from 2.7 to 11.3% and nitrogen from 0.2 to 1.9% indicating dry, poor nutrient fragile ecosystem at the dry valley bottom. We concluded that low soil moisture content (&lt20%) limits downslope extension of broad-leaved species below 1650 m a.s.l. while coldest month's mean temperature of -1 C restricted the upslope extension of evergreen broad-leaved species above 3000 m a.s.l. Along the dry valley slopes, the transition from dry pine forest in the valley bottom, to a mixture of dry west Himalayan evergreen and deciduous east Himalayan broad-leaved, and to humid evergreen oak-laurel forests feature a unique pattern of forest type distribution. 
20051198|In this study the phytosociological structures of Pinus pinea L. forests occuring in K. Mara province in the eastern-mediterranean region have been investigated. The vegetation of the research area has been studied according to the Braun-Blanquet (1932) method and a Gastridio ventricosi-Pinetum pineae association has been recognised.
23267487|The interactions of endophytes with plants are believed to evolve over time from parasitic to mutualistic, and in the seed-transmitted fungal endophytes, these interactions are conventionally treated as mutualistic. The weeping alkaligrass Puccinellia distans has recently dispersed to new habitats in Europe, where it was colonised by the seed-transmitted fungus Epichlo typhina. The E. typhina-infected weeping alkaligrass has a fertility advantage over uninfected plants, but this advantage is held only over shorter time scales. We assess the antiherbivore value of E. typhina in mature weeping alkaligrass against common voles Microtus arvalis, a herbivore naturally co-occurring with weeping alkaligrass. In two consecutive food-choice tests conducted in a lab, we examined feeding by nave voles on E. typhina-infected (E+) and -uninfected grass (E-) originating from Central Europe. In the first test, all voles consumed comparable amounts of E+ biomass and E- biomass. In the subsequent test, the voles reduced their feeding rates by 57 %, but E+ food was avoided twice as frequently as E- food (75 vs. 33 % reduction). This result suggests that toxins produced by E. typhina repel herbivores soon after the first contact. We show that in addition to its direct fitness consequences, endophyte-mediated resistance to herbivory increases the fertility advantage of E. typhina-infected weeping alkaligrass. This effect can increase the ability of weeping alkaligrass to invade habitats with intense herbivory.
20146712|Approximately 130 species of goldenrods are native to North America and many occur sympatrically. Such co-occurrence among closely related species raises the question of whether differences among the species in small-scale distribution and growth forms facilitate their co-occurrence. We investigated five goldenrods that frequently co-occur within their native ranges in Pennsylvania USA old fields. We measured goldenrod abundances, soil textures, nutrients, pH, and moisture within 30 old fields, and determined biomass allocation and flower and seed traits for each goldenrod species at a common site. Ordination revealed that Solidago altissima and S. gigantea were associated with fields having circum-neutral soils, whereas Euthamia graminifolia and S. rugosa achieved their highest abundances on acidic soils. Soil clay content and moisture may be associated with a further separation of species as the abundance of S. altissima tended to be higher on well-drained soils while S. gigantea had a tendency to attain its highest abundances on moist soils that had relatively stable moisture levels over time. Euthamia was more likely to be abundant on clay-rich soils while S. rugosa was often associated with soils containing little clay. Solidago juncea tended to associate with droughty soils that underwent marked soil-moisture changes over time. The latter goldenrod had the greatest absolute and relative root mass, the least absolute and relative leaf mass, highest seed-reproductive allocation, and heaviest achenes. In contrast, S. gigantea and Euthamia, which were often associated with more mesic and stable soil moisture conditions, allocated the least to roots and relatively high amounts of mass to leaves. Solidago gigantea, S. altissima, and Euthamia are invasive species across Europe. The species with the highest colonization rate across Europe, S. gigantea, allocated the most to reproduction in our study, while S. altissima, with the second highest colonization rate, was highly clonal producing the most rhizome mass. Life-history trait variation among goldenrods appears to be linked to differences in small-scale distributions and rates of colonization.
40305488|In the Okavango Delta 98-99% of the water from inflow and rainfall is lost to the atmosphere through evapotranspiration. As a consequence 94% of inflowing solutes are retained within the Delta landscape. This process might be expected to result in an entirely saline environment, but that is not the case: the surface waters have very low salinity, supporting a typical freshwater biota. It has been deduced that the numerous islands in the Delta (about 150,000 within an area of 13,500 km) have been formed through evapotransporative concentration in the groundwater, of infiltrating solutes, followed by precipitation and volume increase. Evidence of this is the large amount of calcrete in island soils. These islands of 3-10 m thickness with clayey soils are underlain by fine Kalahari sand to a depth of 200-300 m, which also indicates that they are formed through surface processes. The infiltration rate of surface water from floodplains and streams into islands is very high, and is predominantly a lateral process that is unidirectional. Evapotranspiration in the riparian woodland zone cause the ground-waters in the central area of islandswith halophyte grasslandsto have very high salinities. By use of chloride as a conservative element the concentration factor between central island groundwater and surface water is calculated to be 500-1,000. This groundwater is depleted of calcium and magnesium supporting the early deductions that these elements have precipitated as calcrete. There is also a large depletion of silicate and potassium that probably have precipitated as well forming the clayey soils typical of the islands. The central island groundwater is dominated by sodium, bicarbonate and dissolved organic matter. The gradual increase of salinity here causes a periodic let off of this water through a density-driven process to deeper layers. This process together with island growth through precipitation of solutes are the two major sink processes of inflowing solutes and explains why the Okavango Delta is at present a freshwater system. The whole island complex is calculated to be 100,000-400,000 years old while some intensely studied islands may be younger: 80,000-240,000 years. The discrepancy is explained by a biassed selection of islands currently in flooded areas with better growth conditions. The uniqueness of the Okavango Delta and ideas for future research are discussed.
40802416|We compared the demography of two populations of Mammillaria huitzilopochtli, an endemic and threatened rupicolous cacti species with a narrow distribution in the semiarid Tehuacan-Cuicatlan region of central Mexico. Censuses were conducted over a 5-year period in two populations: a disturbed site (SI) and a well-preserved site (S2). Five annual size-based matrices and a mean transition matrix of each population were constructed to estimate demographic trends. Prospective timeinvariant analyses were performed to calculate population growth rate and elasticities, whereas prospective stochastic analyses were performed to assess quasi-extinction probabilities and how simulated changes in recruitment, stasis and growth affected the population growth rate. Retrospective perturbation analyses (life table response experiments, LTREs) were used to explore the contributions of demographic processes, plant sizes, and temporal variability (years) to the observed variations in population growth rate. The species showed decreasing population growth rates for almost all years and sites, SI showed lower population growth rates than S2. Quasi-extinction probabilities were 1 after 9 years for S1 and 17 years for S2. Elasticity values were highest for matrix entries corresponding to plants remaining in the same category (stasis) followed by growth and fecundity. LTREs showed that fecundity had negative contributions to population growth rates for all years in SI population, while it had positive contributions in 4 out of 5 years in population S2. Prospective stochastic analyses showed that increasing recruitment by 50% could give population growth rates >1 in S2 while none of the simulations give this value in SI. Increasing survival also raises population growth rates but always below one. These results indicate that populations under the influence of human disturbance will eventually be lost. According to the models the most promising management strategy to conserve this species is to increase recruitment rates and to give special care to reproductive adults.
40606967|The European coastal heathlands are important habitats for international conservation. Today, these low-intensity farming systems are threatened by the cessation of traditional management regimes, such as grazing and prescribed burning. In natural systems, the effects of fire on germination responses are often explained by adaptation to fire over extended periods of time. However, Northern heathlands are semi-natural systems with only a limited fire history. We investigated whether and how the keystone species in this system, Calluna vulgaris, responded to prescribed burning, based on previous findings where Calluna germinable seedbank densities showed a pronounced peak right after fire. Our main findings were (i) an ecophysiological response to smoke; (ii) a potential explanation for this pattern, revealed by a seed-bank experiment where we managed to re-create the germination pattern experimentally by using an aqueous plant-derived smoke solution; and (iii) a history of anthropogenic use of fire and the development of heathlands in the region documented through palaeoecological investigations.
41508700|Some herbivores deliberately consume a mixed diet, either to obtain a superior mix of nutrients or to avoid consuming too much of any one toxin. Few studies have examined diet mixing in parasitic plants, which typically have very broad host ranges. We offered the parasitic plant Cuscuta indecora (dodder), a range of mixtures of two hosts (Iva frutescens and Borrichiafrutescens) in the greenhouse, and observed correlations between the host community and Cuscuta infection in the field. In the greenhouse, Cuscuta performed better on mixtures with a higher relative abundance of Iva. Cuscuta selectively foraged on whichever host was more abundant (diet switching), the exact opposite of the behavior that would be expected if diet mixing was advantageous. In the field, the intensity of Cuscuta infections was decreased by the presence of non-hosts (grasses), not strongly affected by the presence of intermediate hosts, and increased by the presence of Borrichia. We conclude that Cuscuta does not obtain nutritional benefits from a broad diet, but instead is constrained by its relative lack of mobility to attack hosts of intermediate value. In general, the lack of mobility of parasitic plants compared to herbivores probably selects for broad host ranges in parasitic plants.
41686808|The variation among tree species in their sapling responses to disturbances such as fire, herbivory and grass competition results in different probabilities of recruitment into savanna communities. A sapling's ability to persist under these disturbances depends on its investment in growth, defences and stored reserves, based on soil available nutrients. We examined the survival and investments in growth and defence of the saplings of four Acacia species, in the presence of competing grasses, under varying soil nutrient levels. We also have evaluated the effects of fire on these saplings. We performed the study in a greenhouse at the UKZN Botanical Garden, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa. Nutrients had no significant effect on the survival of tree saplings regardless of fire treatment. Only 22.5 % saplings survived after fire treatment compared with 84 % of control saplings. Acacia sieberiana showed the highest resprout survival, while A. karroo did not survive the fire. Growth in A. nigrescens increased only at intermediate levels (0.5N, IN) of the fertiliser provided. Condensed tannins in A. karroo also decreased at an intermediate level (IN) of fertiliser. Resprouts grew faster in stem height than in diameter and did not invest in chemical defences. No treatment had an effect on the proportion of root and shoot dry biomass. In conclusion, African acacias are not dependent on soil nutrients for their survival and differ in their ability to resprout after fire. Intermediate levels of nutrient availability are beneficial to sapling development as opposed to zero and high nutrient levels, due to nutrient-grass dynamics. The benefits of post-fire grass removal and an increase in nutrients can be effectively utilised by only a few species of acacias.
41508831|We related seed mass to summer drought survival in a Mediterranean-climate ecosystem. Previous experimental evidence linking seed mass and survival under drought is limited and at times contradictory. We tracked summer drought survival among four families/subfamilies at a restoration site in southwestern Australia. We coupled these observations with a glasshouse experiment assessing the growth and root morphology of Acacia and Eucalyptus species, with a range of seed masses, under mild and severe drought compared with a well-watered control. Summer drought survival in the field increased with seed mass across all four families/subfamilies. Seedling root biomass and length increased with seed mass consistently across five harvests over 60 days. Initial survival of seedlings in the glasshouse increased with seed mass and decreased with drought, but there was no interaction between the two. Greater absolute root investment provides a mechanism for both short and longer-term drought survival. Within-species variation in root growth may also affect the relative versus absolute survival advantage of large-seeded species. The benefits of large seed mass for establishment under environmental hazards are often considered to be temporary. Our results show that seed mass was correlated with other traits, including root length, which in turn, increased longer-term drought survival. Traits correlated with seed mass should therefore be considered in explanations of the ecological effect of seed mass variation.
40305692|Primary succession is controlled by a combination of landscape and habitat factors whose actions may be stochastic or deterministic. The 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, Washington spawned a massive lahar that now supports a mosaic of vegetation. Our goals were to describe vegetation patterns after 28 growing seasons, determine the factors associated with these patterns, and to contrast the effects of stochastic and deterministic processes. We described species composition and explanatory factors that included location and habitat features in one hundred and fifty one 200-m plots. We classified these plots into nine community types (CTs) that were distinguished quantitatively by variations in dominant species. We used multiple regressions, redundancy analysis (RDA), and Mantel tests to compare the vegetation relationships with explanatory factors. Plots in different CTs mingled spatially and in multivariate space. Species patterns were weakly related to explanatory variables by RDA (31.6% of the species variation). RDA indicated that vegetation was most strongly related to elevation, latitude, and isolation, which are primarily landscape factors. Mantel tests confirmed that factors associated with elevation were most closely associated with vegetation. The effects of arrival order were suggested by the dominance of different colonizers in similar environment and by plots with similar vegetation found in different habitats. We concluded that species composition cannot be predicted well from the data available, suggesting that there were no prominent deterministic assembly rules.
20146357|Six native Rhododendron species grow in the degraded, fire-prone landscape of Hong Kong: R. simsii and R. farrerae are common and widespread, R. moulmainense is relatively restricted, and R. championiae, R. hongkongense, and R. simiarum are rare. For all species except the rare R. simiarum, there was direct or indirect evidence of regrowth after fire, but only the two smallest and commonest species grow in sites which are frequently burned. Both flowered within 18 months of a fire. Most populations of all species, except R. simiarum, had a deficiency of individuals in the smaller basal circumference classes. Seedlings were found only in three out of four plots of R. simiarum, and one of R. farrerae. A few seedlings of the other rare species were seen in open, litter-free microsites outside the study plots, but no seedlings of the most common species, R. simsii, were seen anywhere. In logistic regression models, one or more measures of plant size were significant positive predictors of flowering at least once in the three year study period for all species, while percentage cover by surrounding vegetation had a significant negative impact on all except R. simsii and R. farrerae, for which no populations are strongly-shaded. Although the absence of current recruitment is not necessarily a cause for concern in long-lived species that can resprout after fire, we recommend that active vegetation management should be tried to enhance the survival and reproduction of R. moulmainense, R. championiae and R. hongkongense, and that new populations of these species and R. simiarum should be created.
20146399|A combination of field and tabular methods and multivariate analyses were used to develop groups of ground flora species (i.e., ecological species groups) that characterize and distinguish highly disturbed, landform-level ecosystems dominated by jack pine in northern Lower Michigan. The endangered Kirtland's warbler formerly or currently occupied the large glacial landforms for which species groups were developed. Eight such ecological species groups were created using 31 woody and herbaceous species sampled in 144 plots within a 20,000 km geographic region of uniform climate and regional physiography. The groups were initially constructed using subjective, observation-based groupings of species with similar presence and abundance along soil moisture and fertility gradients. Species groups were corroborated using TWINSPAN and detrended correspondence analysis, and the environmental conditions indicated by each were described and contrasted based upon field observations and canonical correspondence analysis. Two of the eight species groups indicated very dry, infertile sites, and one was indicative of a very broad range of sites dominated by jack pine. The remaining five groups reflected a relatively gentle environmental gradient within the set of ecosystems we sampled, indicating small differences along a soil moisture gradient and less so along a soil fertility and light availability gradient. The groups were applied successfully for the majority of an area that had been repeatedly logged and/or burned for at least 120 years. In addition, the groups were successful when tested on sites with highly disturbed upper soil strata furrowed for the establishment of plantations between the 1960s and 1980s. Within the boundaries of the regional ecosystems for which they were developed, ecological species groups reflect the integrated effects of multiple site factors that control the height growth rates of jack pine trees that, in turn, determine the duration of Kirtland's warbler occupancy. While usually applied at the scale of ecosystem types, our results demonstrate that ecological species groups may also provide the ecological basis for distinguishing ecosystems at broader scales. When examined simultaneously in the field with physiography, microclimate, and soil factors, the groups are therefore useful in identifying and classifying ecosystem units at the scale of landforms, the appropriate scale of management for the Kirtland's warbler.
20050955|In the rural Mediterranean landscape, mosaics of patches of sclerophyllous scrubland and semi-natural grasslands are frequent. The plant communities of these patches, which are physiognomically easy to recognise, are very heterogeneous. The objective of this paper is to determine whether the patches of scrub-grassland represent an integrated response unit of the vegetation with regard to the physical environment (climatic, geographical and edaphic factors) and human use, or whether, on the contrary, this is an independent response. In order to do this a total of 50 sampling sites where scrubland and grassland patches were in contact were studied along a 370 km E-W mesoclimatic gradient from central Spain to Portugal (Iberian Peninsula). Two distinct zones, the east and the west halves of the study area, were identified according to the plant communities. Within each of these zones, each type of patch responded to the previously mentioned factors, differentially and independently. This determined a general lack of inter-community association or floristic correlation between scrub and grassland plant communities in contact. The spatial association is a random process probably related to the particular human management realised on every scrubland and grassland patch. The scrub-grassland pattern, which is characteristic of the Mediterranean landscape, does not represent an integrated response unit of the vegetation to a given environment, but rather the sum of the independent responses to the environment of the two patches in contact.
41508715|Acacia mellifera is one of the most important encroaching woody plants in southern African savannas. Previous studies found that this species encroaches far more readily on rocky areas than on sandy substrates, although it grows larger on sandy substrates. Rocky substrates are known to retain more water than sandy substrates, which may be of vital importance during recruitment in semi-arid and arid environments. A number of studies have also indicated that competition with grasses may reduce the recruitment and biomass of tree seedlings. We created an experiment in a semi-arid environment (mean annual rainfall = 388 mm) that tested for the effects of rockiness on A. mellifera recruitment. We also tested the hypothesis that grasses effectively compete with A. mellifera in this environment by simulating the effect of grazing by clipping grasses from half the plots in both the rocky and sandy treatments. Significantly more A. mellifera seedlings established in plots where grasses were clipped than in control plots. A. mellifera seedlings had greater biomass on sandy substrates than on rocky substrates. No significant interaction effects were found between substrate and grass clipping treatment for either seedling number or biomass. We conclude that A. mellifera seedlings are more likely to encroach in habitats with low grass density, although they may achieve greater biomass on sandy soils. Thus, it may be the lower grass density rather than rockiness, which increases the encroachment observed in naturally rocky habitats. These results are also consistent with our observations that adult A. mellifera trees are larger on sandy soils than on rocky soils.
41686803|Frost damage can decrease nitrogen uptake by grasses over winter, and it can also decrease biomass production over the following growing season. However, it is not clear to what extent reduced nitrogen uptake over winter decreases grass production, or whether is it merely a symptom of root damage. We examined the growth response of the grass Poa pratensis L. (Kentucky bluegrass) to variation in the timing of freezing and nitrogen availability over winter in London, Ontario, Canada. All tillers were transplanted into untreated soil in early spring, and at peak seed maturation, root, shoot, and reproductive biomass were measured. There was an interaction between freezing and increased winter nitrogen availability, whereby nitrogen addition increased tiller biomass under ambient temperatures, but decreased tiller biomass in combination with a late winter freeze. The nitrogen response of ambient temperature tillers occurred primarily via increased seed production, whereas for frozen tillers seed production was generally absent. Our results support the hypothesis that nitrogen uptake over winter can increase growing season productivity in P. pratensis, but also demonstrate that increased nitrogen availability increases tiller vulnerability to frost. These results have important implications for grass responses to the alteration of soil freezing dynamics with climate change.
41508851|Many semi-arid shrublands in the western US have experienced invasion by a suite of exotic grasses and forbs that have altered community structure and function. The effect of the exotic grasses in this area has been studied, but little is known about how exotic forbs influence the plant community. A 3-year experiment in southern California coastal sage scrub (CSS) now dominated by exotic grasses was done to investigate the influence of both exotic grasses (mainly Bromus spp.) and exotic forbs (mainly Erodium spp.) on a restoration seeding (9 species, including grasses, forbs, and shrubs). Experimental plots were weeded to remove one, both, or neither group of exotic species and seeded at a high rate with a mix of native species. Abundance of all species varied with precipitation levels, but seeded species established best when both groups of exotic species were removed. The removal of exotic grasses resulted in an increase in exotic and native forb cover, while removal of exotic forbs led to an increase in exotic grass cover and, at least in one year, a decrease in native forb cover. In former CSS now converted to exotic annual grassland, a competitive hierarchy between exotic grasses and forbs may prevent native forbs from more fully occupying the habitat when either group of exotics is removed. This apparent competitive hierarchy may interact with yearly variation in precipitation levels to limit restoration seedings of CSS/exotic grassland communities. Therefore, management of CSS and exotic grassland in southern California and similar areas must consider control of both exotic grasses and forbs when restoration is attempted.
40305767|In this study, we examined wood anatomy, hydraulic properties, photosynthetic rate, and water status and osmotic regulation in three liana species and three tree species co-occurring in a seasonal tropical rain forest. Our results showed that the three liana species had larger vessel diameter, lower sapwood density, and consequently higher branch sapwood specific hydraulic conductivity (
40305680|Bryophytes and lichens abound in many arctic ecosystems and can contribute substantially to the ecosystem net primary production (NPP). Because of their growth seasonality and their potential for growth out of the growing season peak, bryophyte and lichen contribution to NPP may be particularly significant when vascular plants are less active and ecosystems act as a source of carbon (C). To clarify these dynamics, nonvascular and vascular aboveground NPP was compared for a subarctic heath during two contrasting periods of the growing season, viz. early-mid summer and late summer-early autumn. Nonvascular NPP was determined by assessing shoot biomass increment of three moss species (Hylocomium splendens, Pleurozium schreberi and Dicranum elongatum) and by scaling to ecosystem level using average standing crop. For D. elongatum, these estimates were compared with production estimates obtained from measurements of shoot length increase. Vascular NPP was determined by harvesting shrub and herb apical growth and considering production due to stem secondary growth of shrubs. Hylocomium splendens and Pleurozium schreberi showed highest biomass growth in late summer, whereas for D. elongatum this occurred in early summer. Maximum relative growth rates were ca. 0.0030.007 g g d . For D. elongatum, production estimates from length growth differed from estimations from biomass growth, likely because of an uncoupling between length growth and biomass shoot growth. Nonvascular NPP was 0.37 and 0.46 g dry weight m d in early and late summer, respectively, whereas in the same periods vascular NPP was 3.6 and 1.1 g dry weight m d. The contribution of nonvascular NPP to total aboveground NPP was therefore minor in early summer but substantial in late summer, when 25% of the C accumulated by the vegetation was incorporated into nonvascular plant tissue. The expected global change-induced reduction of nonvascular plant biomass in subarctic heath is likely therefore to enhance C release during the late part of the growing season.
20050780|Leaf tissues of vascular plant species from the arid Richtersveld of northern Namaqualand (Succulent Karoo), South Africa, show a great range of variation in carbon isotope discrimination. Analyses of  values for species with obligate C metabolism demonstrated that the water use efficiency indicated by these values varies between species and within a species population both between seedlings and mature shrubs and between sites along an aridity gradient. An expected pattern of increasing water use efficiency with greater longevity in these species was not present, however. Only among ephemerals were there taxa with high  values associated with low water use efficiency, but these high values were balanced by other ephemeral species with low  values comparable to those typical of moderate to long-lived shrubs. The extent to which putative CAM species in the succulent flora rely entirely on nocturnal carbon fixation is highly variable. Species of Crassulaceae and Aloe (Asphodelaceae) relied almost exclusively on CAM photosynthesis, although Crassulaceae from more mesic environments may be CAM-flexible. Succulent-leaved species of Senecio and leaves of stem-succulent Euphorbia were CAM-flexible in their  values, while shrubby species of Ceraria (Portulacaceae) appeared to rely primarily on C photosynthesis. Variable patterns of reliance on CAM photosynthesis were present in the ecologically dominant Mesembryanthema of the Aizoaceae. Shrubby species of the subfamily Mesembryanthemoideae, although capable of CAM-flexibility in less xeric habitats, relied largely on CAM fixation of carbon in our field sites. Within the subfamily Ruschioideae, there was a wide range of  values indicating species with CAM, CAM flexibility, and primary reliance on C photosynthesis. Low  values indicative of typical CAM fixation were associated with species with greater longevity, suggesting that a positive correlation may exist between the degree of reliance on CAM photosynthesis and plant life span.
23500417|Studies of metapopulations of epiphytic bromeliads have been useful to test dispersal limitations and niche effects on the distribution of species, but most studies have been done in wet forests. To advance understanding of these processes in dry environments and using additional microclimatic data, we examined the horizontal distribution, vertical stratification and abundance of epiphytic bromeliads in trees from a dry forest and tested whether water table depth (indicated by the distance to an exposed underground lake, cenote) influenced the microenvironment or structure of the vegetation. Seasonal microenvironmental variables (relative humidity, temperature and light) were characterized among sites, two tree species and three vertical canopy strata. Epiphytes and trees were surveyed in plots, and various tree traits were recorded. Epiphyte density decreased with distance from the cenote (water hole) as the water table became farther from the ground surface and thus unavailable to trees. Sites close to the cenote had higher nighttime humidity, irrespective of the tree species identity. Within the same tree species, the base of the canopy was lower at sites close to the cenote, denoting that the cenote influenced the structure of the canopy. These factors may determine the distribution of the epiphytes by positively influencing the water status of these nocturnally transpiring plants with Crassulacean acid metabolism. Epiphytes were distributed randomly among all the species of trees close to the cenote, but they exhibited a species-specific vertical stratification, which may reflect physiological differences among the epiphyte species.
20051291|Spatial relationships between tree species and hydrological soil constraints are analysed within a 10-ha rainforest plot at Piste de St Elie in French Guiana. We used canonical correlation analysis to cross directly the occurrence-by-species table of 4 992 individuals (d.b.h.  10 cm) belonging to 120 species with qualitative soil variables and quantitative spatial data. Firstly, the list of species occurrences was confronted to nine soil descriptors characterising a weathering sequence from the initial well-drained ferralitic cover to transformed hydromorphic soil conditions. This analysis revealed that, apart from some specialised species restricted to the swamps that experience prolonged water saturation, the most abundant species can be ordered along two intermingled gradients of tolerance limiting their niche amplitude: a main gradient of tolerance to prolonged water saturation that appears down slope during the weathering sequence; a second gradient of less importance, displaying the species intolerant of prolonged water saturation according to their tolerance to temporary confinement of the uphill transformed soil systems due to the late appearance of a perched water-table. The results support the hypothesis that at Piste de St Elie, the constraining soil conditions imposed by surface water saturation are more important determinants for tree zonation of many tree species than water shortage. Secondly, the list of species occurrences was confronted to a spatial data table built from a trend surface regression of the tree coordinates. This analysis indicated that soil drainage is the main structuring factor of the local multispecies spatial pattern. After partialling out the soil effect, the multispecies pattern revealed a broader scale of heterogeneity that we supposed to be linked to endogenous factors resulting from population dynamics. Implications of the results are then discussed in the perspective of future research on tree zonation, local diversity pattern and community structuring in tropical rainforests.
20050963|Available evidence suggests that vegetative and reproductive plant growth should decrease with climatic severity. This was tested first with observations of Stellaria longipes ramets established naturally along an 1100 m gradient of elevation in the Rocky Mountains of Southern Canada, and secondly with ramets collected from the same sites but grown in climate-controlled cabinets under long warm days. Growth cabinet plants yielded three times as many new modules and biomass, at a rate twice as fast as that of field plants. In addition the mortality of field-grown modules was approximately 40 times that of growth cabinet plants. This points to a very high 'cost' of living in a natural environment. Contrary to anticipated results, the considerable change in habitat generated by the gradient in elevation was not matched by an equally dramatic gradient in vegetative or reproductive module growth in the field. Plants grown in cabinets also failed to show any clinal trends in module growth. Measures of vegetative module growth, such as rate of module accumulation and biomass per module, were generally conserved among sites. By contrast, production of reproductive modules was highly variable, both within and among sites. The failure to predict module behaviour from climatic severity may have been caused by unanticipated complexities of the gradient such as soil moisture and soil pH which were distributed independently of elevation. On the other hand, differentiation in growth among ecotypes along the gradient may be explained by changes in the characteristics of individual modules, not the demography of the modules that make up the plants.
20146836|We evaluated silvicultural thinning of pine plantations in order to determine the extent to which plantations treated in this way showed a greater structural similarity to natural stands. Specifically, we tested for differences in community structure (increase of DBH, increase of height and canopy height) and regeneration (seedlings and saplings &lt 1, 1-2 and &gt 2 years old) in response to thinning treatments (20% and 50% removal of density). We compared the variables of the thinned plots with those of the control plots (no thinning of living trees). Comparison of the structural variables between any treatments is of limited value due to the high intra- and inter-plot environmental variability (both slope and orientation affect tree growth to a significant degree). We therefore used ordination methods (Redundancy Analysis, RDA) to monitor covariation and to select non-redundant explanatory variables. We tested for differences between control and managed plots using Monte Carlo tests for the eigenvalues of the obtained axis of the RDA. Of the two treatments, only the 50% thinning treatment was significantly different from the control plots (in which only dead pines were thinned). In ten years, the basal area of pines showed a 10% increase in 50% thinned plots in comparison with the control plots. The number of saplings &gt 2 years old was also significantly higher in 50% thinned plots. The control plots typically had an appreciably higher density of dead trees and a greater number of seedlings. Fifty percent thinning is having a positive effect on the naturalization of the stand but subsequent management will be needed to ensure establishment of advance regeneration.
20146885|We tested if subalpine heath vegetation in northern Italy recovered after experimental perturbation of soil nutrient availability (fertilization) and species composition (removal of co-dominant dwarf shrubs). Species cover was assessed non-destructively before the start of the treatments (1995), at the end of the treatments (1999) and 4 years after the treatments ended (2003). Shrub removal had rather modest effects on heath vegetation, except for mosses which decreased significantly in removal plots. Fertilization decreased the cover of shrubs, mosses, and some graminoids but increased the cover of Festuca rubra. Fertilization converted heath to grassland, but the response of graminoid species was individualistic. Fertilization decreased vascular species richness and evenness, probably through negative effects of shading and litter accumulation on plant growth or recruitment. The vegetation had not recovered completely 4 years after the perturbations had stopped. This suggests that, in contrast to rapid responses to species removal and fertilization, recovery from these perturbations was rather slow, presumably because recovery was affected by long-term biotic interactions and species controls on ecosystem properties.
23362420|Local species richnessproductivity (SRP) relationship is usually reported as unimodal if long productivity gradients are sampled. However, it tends to be monotonically increasing in low-productive environments due to the decreasing part of the SRP curve being truncated. Previous work indicated that this can hold true for forest herb layers, because of an upper bound on productivity caused mainly by canopy shading. Here, we ask whether the same pattern exists in a region with an upper bound on productivity caused by a harsh climate. We sampled herbaceous vegetation of boreal forests and grasslands in a low-productive region of central Yakutia (NE Siberia) with dry and winter-cool continental climate. We collected data on species composition, herb-layer productivity (aboveground herbaceous biomass), soil chemistry and light availability. We applied regression models to discriminate between monotonically increasing, decreasing and unimodal responses of herb-layer species richness to measured variables and analysed trends in the species-pool size and beta diversity along the productivity gradient. Our expectation of the monotonically increasing SRP relationship was confirmed for neither forest herb layers nor grasslands. In the forest herb layers, no relationship was detected. In grasslands, the relationship was unimodal with species richness decline starting at much lower productivity levels than in more productive temperate grasslands. Potential causes for this decline are either limitation of local species richness by the species pool, which contains few species adapted to more productive habitats, or competitive exclusion, which can become an important control of species richness under lower levels of productivity than is the case in temperate grasslands.
20051046|About ten percent of all vascular plant species world-wide are epiphytes and they are almost exclusively found in tropical forests. Therefore, they constitute a large part of the global plant biodiversity (10% of all species), and in tropical countries represent up to 25% of all vascular plant species. Focusing on the differences between epiphytes in the strict sense or 'holo-epiphytes' (non-parasitic plants that use other plants -- usually trees -- as growing sites all through their life-cycle) and 'hemi-epiphytes' ('half' epiphytes which only spend part of their life as epiphytes until their aerial roots become connected to the ground), horizontal and vertical distribution patterns of both in relation to some of their ecological requirements are compared. Vertical ecological gradients (i.e., insolation and humidity differences from the forest floor to the canopy surface) are relevant for the composition of the holo-epiphytic vegetation. For hemi-epiphytes, however, ecological differences between distinct forest habitats (i.e., horizontal gradients) are relevant, but not primarily the canopy structure, as the individual host tree structure is more important. The scale-dependence of epiphyte diversity assessment (relatively small study areas for holo-epiphytes, large study areas for hemi-epiphytes) is mainly due to the striking differences in plant sizes and related mechanical and physiological requirements.
20050908|In riparian wetlands total standing crop often fails to account for a significant part of the observed variation in species richness and species composition within communities. In this study, we used abundance of the dominant species instead of total standing crop as the biotic predictor variable and investigated its relationships with species composition and species richness in communities dominated by Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steudel. This was done by measuring soil organic matter content, litter cover and elevation, Phragmites abundance (standing crop and stem density) and species composition in 78 relevs. In addition, we tried to identify the environmental boundaries of Phragmites communities by sampling relevs in neighbouring communities. Two gradients were related to a decline in Phragmites abundance: one gradient, perpendicular to the shoreline, was mainly related to increased elevation and the second gradient ran parallel to the shoreline and was related to increased amounts of soil organic matter. Within the relevs dominated by Phragmites, stem density of Phragmites and litter cover were the only factors significantly related to species composition in the RDA solution. Litter cover and standing crop of the dominant accounted for 64% of the variation in species richness within the Phragmites-dominated community. These results show that dead and living biomass of the dominant species may account for a substantial part of the variation in species composition and species richness within a single community.
23362475|In the HudsonJames Bay system, grubbing and grazing by lesser snow geese have resulted in severe devegetation of coastal marshes. These changes likely represent an example of an alternative stable state; however, long-term datasets documenting whether revegetation is occurring are scarce. Here, we report results of a 10-year study investigating changes in the state of a degraded salt marsh system on the north coast of Akimiski Island, Nunavut. Four transects were intensively sampled in 1998 and 2008, two within the dense nesting and brood-rearing area of a snow geese colony, one on the colony edge, and one outside it; all of these sites were also used by broods of Canada geese. Key forage species (Puccinellia phryganodes, Festuca rubra, Carex subspathacea) were less common near the colony center than elsewhere; biomass of Puccinellia also tended to be lower in more central areas. Forage species often increased in abundance between samplings, but the magnitude of changes was small. In contrast, non-forage species (Salicornia, Spergularia, Glaux) often reached high abundance within the colony center; some (Salicornia) decreased while others (Spergularia) increased. We argue the degraded state was initiated by foraging damage from an exceptional stopover of 295,000 staging birds in 1972 and that the combined foraging pressure of relatively small numbers of nesting and migrant geese since then, coupled with soil changes, has been sufficient to maintain devegetated areas as a persistent alternative state. Whether or not this state is truly stable, further recovery is likely to be very slow.
20051055|The arthropod activity in the upper and the lower zone of nine emergent oak trees (genus Quercus) of a submontane forest in Sabah, Borneo, Malaysia, was investigated by using flight interception traps, yellow colour traps, and arboreal pitfall traps. Number of arthropods did not differ significantly between the upper and the lower region of the tree crowns. Nevertheless, the results reveal significant differences in the abundances of several arthropod groups between the two zones. In the lower part of the oak crowns Homoptera and ants (mostly alates) were sampled in higher numbers, whereas the upper zone was dominated by Diptera and Hymenoptera (ants excluded). Beetles and most other groups showed no significant differences in abundance between the lower and upper zone of the oak trees. Thus, the arthropods of the investigated community are not evenly distributed. The arthropod community in tree crowns, which often has been treated as a homogenous unit, is in fact divided into subunits formed by differently composed arthropod assemblages.
23267462|We studied the influence of site conditions on epiphytic orchids under a subtropical climate in the Kathmandu Valley, Nepal. We analysed 96 systematically distributed grid points situated in Kathmandu Valley across a land-use intensity gradient (national park to urbanised city area). Geographical Information System (GIS) and remote sensing were used for classification of land-use types. We identified 23 species of epiphytic orchids, within 13 genera, from 42 different host tree species. Host preference is obvious for some orchid species (e.g., Dendrobium nobile), with certain tree species (e.g., Schima wallichii, Ficus religiosa) hosting more orchid species than others. The orchid Rhynchostylis retusa was the most common species found on many different host tree species across the land-use intensity gradient. Host species and host bark characteristics (e.g., rugosity, pH and exposure to wind) played a vital role for orchid distribution, with lower abundance in areas of higher impact. Under strong human impact (urban city area), F. religiosa was the dominant host tree, with large individual trees (mean diameter in breast height, dbh = 1.3 m) providing the habitat for considerable populations of R. retusa individuals. In general, epiphytic orchids were found on larger host trees in urban areas than in areas of lower human impact. We found that some hosts are more likely to harbour orchid species, especially native host species. Older larger trees with rougher bark, low pH, exposed to wind and reduced human impact provided better habitats for orchids. We suggest these characteristics should be considered in urban planning to reduce human impact on the associated orchid epiphytic community.
40305631|Wildfires are rare in the disturbance history of Hawaiian forests but may increase in prevalence due to invasive species and global climate change. We documented survival rates and adaptations facilitating persistence of native woody species following 2002-2003 wildfires in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii. Fires occurred during an El Nino drought and were ignited by lava flows. They burned across an environmental gradient occupied by two drier shrub-dominated communities and three mesic/wet Metrosideros forest communities. All the 19 native tree, shrub, and tree fern species demonstrated some capacity of postfire persistence. While greater than 95% of the dominant Metrosideros trees were top-killed, more than half survived fires via basal sprouting. Metrosideros trees with diameters > 20 cm sprouted in lower percentages than smaller trees. At least 17 of 29 native woody species colonized the postfire environment via seedling establishment. Although the native biota possess adaptations facilitating persistence following wildfire, the presence of highly competitive invasive plants and ungulates will likely alter postfire succession.
40212948|Ailanthus altissima has a long history of invasion in urban areas and is currently spreading into suburban and rural areas in the eastern U. S. The objectives of our study were to (1) determine whether A. altissima seed dispersal distance differed between populations on the edges of open fields and intact deciduous forest, and (2) determine whether dispersal differed for north and south winds. We also assessed the relationship between seed characteristics and distance from source populations in fields and forests, and whether seeds disperse at different rates throughout the dispersal season. Using two fields, two intact forest stands, and one partially harvested stand, we sampled the seed rain at 10 m intervals 100 m into each site from October to April 2002-2003. We compared seed density in field and intact forests using a three-way ANOVA with distance from source, wind direction, and environmental structure as independent variables. To assess the accuracy of common empirical dispersal models, mean seed density data at each site were fitted with alternative regression models. We found that mean seed dispersal distance depended on environmental structure and wind direction, a result driven in large part by dispersal at a single site where seed density did not decline with distance. The two alternative regression models fit each site's dispersal curve equally well. More seeds were dispersed early than in mid-or late-season. Large, heavy seeds traveled as far as small light seeds. Turbulent winds appear to be necessary for seed release, as indicated by a wind tunnel experiment. A. altissima is able to disperse long distances into fields and into mature forests, and can reach canopy gaps and other suitable habitats at least 100 m from the forest edge. It is an effective disperser and can spread rapidly in fragmented landscapes where edges and other high light environments occur. These conditions are increasingly common throughout the eastern U.S. and in other temperate regions worldwide.
23362424|Ecological responses to 50-year old manipulations of snow depth and melt timing were assessed using snow fences arrayed across 50 km of a shrubconifer landscape mosaic in eastern California, USA. We compared how increased, decreased, and ambient snow depth affected patterns of vegetation community composition, fire fuel accumulation, and annual tree ring growth. We also tested the effect of snow depth on soil carbon storage based on total C content under the two co-dominant shrub species (Artemisia tridentata and Purshia tridentata) in comparison with open, intershrub sites. Increased snow depth reduced the cover of the N-fixing shrub P. tridentata but not the water-redistributing shrub A. tridentata. Annual ring growth was greater on +snow plots and lower on -snow plots for the conifer Pinus jeffreyi but not for Pinus contorta. Graminoid cover and aboveground biomass indicated higher fire fuel accumulation where snow depth was increased. Dead shrub stem biomass was greater regardless of whether snow depth was increased or decreased. Results demonstrate community shifts, altered tree growth, feedbacks on carbon storage, and altered fire fuel accumulation as a result of changes in snow depth and melt timing for this high-elevation, snow-dominated ecotone under future climate scenarios that envision increased or decreased snow depth.
20050512|Non-epiphytic species richness was studied in different disturbance classes within a Quercus semecarpifolia forest. Nine disturbance classes were defined according to the degree of biomass removal (lopping) and their spatial mixture. Six of these were observed in the study area. The species were divided into three functional groups: climbers, phanerophytes, and field-layer plants. The primary aim was to test if there is an elevated species richness under an intermediate disturbed canopy for (i) all vascular plants, (ii) lianas, (iii) phanerophytes and (iv) field-layer species. The richness of the different plant groups and all species were fitted against the disturbance gradient by means of Generalized Linear Models (GLM). Other environmental variables such as altitude, potential solar radiation, light intensity, canopy cover and soil parameters were also evaluated as predictors. Disturbance classes, canopy cover and light intensity were combined into a new variable, disturbance-complex, using Principal Component Analyses. Phanerophytes did not respond to any variable. Climbers were mostly related to pH and canopy cover, and were the only group related to altitude, nitrogen and loss-on-ignition. Herbaceous plants and total species richness showed a unimodal response to disturbance classes and the complex disturbance gradient, which supports the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. Relative radiation and slope also supported a unimodal response in herbaceous plants, but disturbance had a significant additional contribution to this pattern. The most significant predictor for these two groups was pH. The responses to organic carbon and phosphorus were not significant for any of the subsets. The results indicate that a small-scale lopping regime will enhance species richness of vascular plants; only a few species in the intermediate disturbed forest are weedy ruderals. In such a situation, the conservation policy may accept small-scale human impact as part of the forest landscape.
20146907|We investigated diurnal patterns of petal movement (upright and reflexed) and sensitivity of pollen to moisture in a winter-flowering flora from the desert coast of Namaqualand, South Africa. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that nocturnal flower closure associated with upright petal movement affords protection to pollen from winter precipitation. The proportion of open flowers in eight species from seven genera and three families, increased rapidly above air temperatures of about 20 C. Flower temperature explained most of the variance in petal status. About 90% of the variance in flower temperature was explained by air temperature while radiation, wind speed and relative humidity had no significant independent effect. Petal opening was more closely correlated with temperature than the closing response, which may be under the additional control of endogenous factors. Pollen exposed to moisture overnight had a significantly higher frequency of damaged grains than control pollen in the majority of study species within the Aizoaceae and Neuradeceae. We found no evidence that pollen of asteraceous species exhibiting flower closure is sensitive to moisture. We conclude that pollen damage and the reduction in male fitness that may result from exposure to rain, dew and fog has provided an important selective impetus for the widespread evolution of upright petal movement and associated flower closure found among more than 3500 species in the predominantly winter and spring flowering Cape fynbos and succulent karoo floras.
40305472|The ability of plants to recover from herbivore damage and maintain their fitness depends on physiological mechanisms that are affected by the availability of resources such as carbon and soil nutrients. In this study, we explored the effects of increased carbon and nutrient availability on the response of rapid cycling Brassica rapa to damage by the generalist herbivore, Trichoplusia ni (Noctuidae), in a greenhouse experiment. Using fruit mass as an estimate of plant fitness, we tested three physiological models, which predict either an increase or a decrease of tolerance to herbivory with increasing resource availability. We used leaf demography to examine some plausible mechanisms through which resource availability may affect tolerance. Our results contradict all models, and, rather, they support a more complicated view of the plasticity of resource uptake and allocation than the ones considered by the models tested. Fruit mass was negatively affected by herbivore damage only under elevated CO, and only for certain harvest dates. Increased CO had no effect on the number of leaf births, but it decreased leaf longevity and the total number of leaves on a plant. Nutrient addition increased the number of leaf births, leaf longevity and the total number of leaves on a plant. We conclude that a shortening of the life span of the plants, brought about by elevated CO, was responsible for a higher susceptibility of plants to herbivore damage under high CO concentration.
41508706|The creation of temporal and newly sown field margins for 6 years is a common agri-environment scheme (AES) in the Netherlands. Conservation profits resulting from AES vary over different areas and need further studying. We examined plant species richness in such field margins and adjacent ditch banks in the province of Zeeland, where these linear elements do not experience plant biomass removal after mowing as management strategy. First, during 2 years, we inventoried field margins sown with a wildflower mixture and related the species composition and richness to the age of the margins. In a second assessment, we studied plant species richness on ditch banks protected from arable fields by these margins. Major clusters in a principal component analysis (PCA) on species composition in the field margins showed a succession from sown and ruderal annual species (year 1), to sown perennial species (year 2) and ending with a dominance by tussock forming grass species and Urtica dioica (year 5-6). Total plant species richness decreased with increasing age of the margins, and this was caused by the combination of a decline in sown species and a stable number of not-sown species. The presence of field margins during several years did not result in an increase in plant species richness on adjacent ditch banks. In both the field margins and on the ditch banks, mowing management is not followed by the removal of the cuttings. For plant conservation, the results of these field margins are disappointing, probably due to the lack of a proper management. Therefore, we recommend implementing a haymaking and opening management, to increase plant richness and to reduce noxious weeds in the margins and on the ditch banks.
24553728|Palm swamps (veredas) are unique and diverse plant communities associated with the headwaters of streams in central Brazil, and they are frequently subjected to fires. We evaluated the effect of fire and the role of different fire-related cues on inducing reproduction by palm swamp vegetation. We compared the responses of species in burned plots, in plots in which the aboveground vegetation was clipped and then removed, and in unburned and unclipped control plots. Both the number of reproductive species and the total number of flowers/fruits produced by all species monthly were significantly greater in the burned than in the clipped and control plots, and greater in the clipped than in the control plots. For 34 of the 48 individual species analyzed the number of flowers/fruits produced per m2/month was greater in the burned than in the control plots, whereas the clipping treatment significantly increased the reproductive rate of only six species. This indicates that increased light availability was not the only factor inducing plant reproduction. Most likely, plant reproduction was also stimulated by the availability of soil nutrients whose concentrations increased significantly after burning. Although our results indicate that most plant species that occur in palm swamps are fire-recruiters, care must be taken in using fire as management tool, especially as the frequency of human-induced fires in palm swamps have increased dramatically in recent years.
20050830|Silver birch woodlands of two volcanic mountains (altitude 850 m and 1450 m) were studied in order to establish a growth model of birch. Height, radial increment and crown width were measured on both sites taking into account two situations: isolated birch or birch within a stand. For the latter case two categories were sampled considering the competition status of the tree: birch suffering the most severe competition (suppressed tree) were distinguished from trees facing the lowest competition (dominant tree). Measures of competition were also made using plots where each tree was located by its coordinates and its height, trunk circumference and crown width recorded. Examination of radial growth curves showed similar patterns for the two sites for the same category of tree. Radial growth was always inferior for the site located at the highest altitude but tree lifespan was about two-fold longer. Radial increment data were used to calculate circumference as function of tree age. Models predicting circumference with time were then established for each category of tree (dominant, suppressed or isolated) using Chapman-Richards' model. Height and crown width models were produced using circumference as the predictor. Competition indices based on vertical or horizontal angles weighted by the distance were calculated for birches in stands. Indices using vertical angles appeared to be more resistant and robust to characterize local competition. Competition index was then associated with the parameters of Chapman-Richards' growth circumference model for the two sites and models predicting the circumference from the age of the tree and its competition index are proposed.
20146468| Anthropogenic emissions contribute to an annual 0.5% increase in atmospheric CO. As global CO levels increase, regional precipitation patterns will likely be altered. Our primary objective was to determine whether a reduction in summer precipitation or an increase in winter/spring precipitation, predicted by global climate change models, will favor the establishment of C grasses or C shrubs in southern savannas. Our secondary objective was to determine how defoliation and microsite light availability interact with altered precipitation regimes to influence grass and shrub seedling growth and biomass allocation patterns. Seedlings of 3 shrub species (Prosopis glandulosa var. glandulosa, Acacia berlandieri, and A. greggii var. wrightii) and 3 grass species (Aristida purpurea var. wrightii, Setaria texana, and Stipa leucotricha) were watered based on probable changes in precipitation in a CO enriched atmosphere (0.6, 0.8, and 1.0 current ambient summer precipitation and 1.0, 1.15, and 1.30 current winter/spring precipitation). Seedlings were defoliated at 3 levels (non-defoliated, single defoliation, and repeated defoliation) within 2 levels of microsite light availability (100 and 50% ambient). Defoliation significantly reduced total shrub and grass seedling biomass. Reducing light availability decreased shrub seedling root:shoot ratio, but total biomass was not significantly affected. Grass seedling biomass and root:shoot ratio decreased when light availability was reduced. Changing the seasonality of precipitation by reducing summer rainfall or increasing winter/spring rainfall did not significantly influence growth or biomass allocation of grass and shrub seedlings in a semiarid savanna. Microsite variations in defoliation intensity and light availability influence seedling growth and biomass allocation more than changing seasonality of precipitation. Shrub and grass seedling establishment and growth on semiarid rangelands are already limited by summer precipitation, so a further reduction as proposed by climate change models will have a limited impact on seedling dynamics. 
23267467|Invasive plants can reduce plant diversity and abundance in native grassland communities; however, the effect on the native seed bank is less clear. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of invasion by the exotic grass old world bluestem (OWB; Bothriochloa spp.) on native aboveground plant species composition and seed bank diversity and abundance (i.e., cover, density). In this central Great Plains grassland, OWB invasion had differential effects on native diversity and abundance of both aboveground and seed bank plant communities. Native plant species diversity and cover showed a steep decline as OWB cover increased. No change in native seed density or richness was observed in response to OWB invasion, however, OWB seed density increased with increasing invasion, thus increasing total seed density. Our results indicate that as OWB invasion increases, the native plant community decreases in diversity and abundance. Although, no effect on native seed bank diversity and density was observed in this study, as native seeds are lost through a loss of native species in the plant communities, native seed bank diversity and density is expected to decline.
20051149|Anoda cristata is a widely distributed annual weed in Mexico, which grows as agrestal or naturally in disturbed and undisturbed vegetation, respectively. Plants of this species are tolerated in orchards and corn-bean fields by Mexican ethnic groups of Central Mexico. Leaves of the plants are used as a food source, and occasionally seeds are sown in orchards. Because Mexicans have used Anoda cristata for a long time, it is possible that ecological and morphological characteristics of managed populations differ from those of wild populations. In this study, we analyzed phenotypic responses of two populations of A. cristata (wild and agrestal) growing in two habitats (forest and cultivated field) comparing survivorship, and life history traits. Natural progenies from wild and agrestal populations of A. cristata were transplanted into a cultivated field and in the understory of a pine forest in a reciprocal transplant experiment. Results showed that the habitat of transplant and the origin of populations had significant effect on all plant characters measured (growth, phenology, and biomass allocation), but the habitat x origin interaction was non-significant. In general, plants from the agrestal population grew faster, reproduced earlier, and allocated more biomass to reproduction, than plants from the wild population. Similarly, significant effects of habitat and origin on plant survivorship were detected, but the origin of populations explained the largest proportion of variance in plant survival. Most traits were phenotypically plastic but there were no differences in the magnitude or direction of the response between populations. In contrast both populations showed differentiation for most character mean values. Population differentiation is possibly the result of genetic differences driven by processes other than incipient domestication.
20050820|Many species-rich Themeda triandra grasslands in south-eastern Australia have been burnt annually in summer as a land management practice for decades. The characteristics of annual fires (maximum surface temperatures, maximum soil temperature changes at 10 mm depth, Byram fire intensity and duration of surface heating) were compared to fires that occur less frequently (2, 4 or 7-year inter-fire interval). The impacts of annual summer fires on seed survival, perennial plant dynamics and flowering were also documented at two sites over two years. Annual grassland fires differ principally from other grassland fire types in their duration of surface temperatures above 100 C (i.e., &lt1 min versus &gt2-3 min in grasslands burnt at 4-7 year intervals). This was correlated to fuel load, but not rate of spread or Byram fire intensity. Maximum surface temperatures were variable within annual fire events (98-458 C) and did not differ significantly from those observed in other grassland fires. All sites experienced temperatures above 350 C but no site had its soil temperature increase at 10 mm depth by &gt10 C during fire. Byram fire intensity was lower in annually burnt sites, but positively correlated with rate of spread moreso than fuel load. Many perennial species (34-55%) and most perennial individuals (70-83%) avoid the annual summer fire event by being dormant at the time of burning. All perennial species regenerated rapidly by vegetative means after fire and seedlings were absent or rare for most species. As a result, turnover of species at the small-scale was low. Annual burning permits high perennial species richness (mean 18 species/0.25 m) and high numbers of individual perennial plants (range 189-1036 plants/0.25 m) to co-exist at the small-scale. Seasonal plant density maxima peaked in spring, 6-8 months after fire, and the number of plants in a species' population each year following fire depended on their seasonal response more than their direct fire response. The direction and magnitude of population change from one year to the next was species and site specific and did not correlate with life form or a plant's ability for vegetative spread. All perennial species have a short secondary juvenile period (i.e., 6-11 months) but relatively few individual plants flower in any one year. Seed that has made its way into the soil is completely protected from the direct effects of fire and hence, occasional post-fire seedling recruitment may be possible for all species. Maintaining annual burning in grasslands as a management regime is unlikely to lead to a decline in richness and plant density in the short-term. Rather, delayed burning (i.e., &gt3 year intervals), and the impact that this may have on interval dependent processes such as above-ground competition, are predicted to have more substantial long-term effects on the small-scale dynamic of this community.
20051350|Vascular epiphytes are typically associated with tropical rainforests, whereas their occurrence in temperate forests is little appreciated. This review summarises the available information on epiphytism in the temperate zones (&gt 23.5 latitude), which has not been reviewed comprehensively for more than a century, and critically analyses the proposed mechanisms behind the observed biogeographical patterns. Although in the temperate zone epiphytic vascular plants are rarely as impressive as in tropical forests, there are noteworthy exceptions. Temperate rain forests of Chile and New Zealand, or montane forests in the Himalayas are comparable to many tropical forests in terms of epiphyte biomass and diversity, but differ in their taxonomic spectrum: temperate epiphyte communities are generally dominated by ferns and fern-allies. Other temperate areas are not, however, necessarily barren of epiphytes, as repeatedly implied. Quite in contrast, local populations of epiphytes in a large number of other non-tropical areas in both the southern and the northern hemisphere can be quite conspicuous. The proposed reasons for the latitudinal gradients in epiphyte abundance and diversity (water scarcity or low temperatures) are not fully convincing and, moreover, still await experimental verification. Other factors, both historical (e.g., Pleistocene extinctions) and ecological (e.g., prevalence of conifers in the northern hemisphere), should also be taken into consideration to obtain a comprehensive explanation of the extant global distribution of vascular epiphytes.
20050993|The mechanisms of protection against mechanical and oxidative stress were identified and compared in the angiosperm resurrection plants Craterostigma wilmsii, Myrothamnus flabellifolius and Xerophyta humilis. Drying-induced ultrastructural changes within mesophyll cells were followed to gain an understanding of the mechanisms of mechanical stabilisation. In all three species, water filled vacuoles present in hydrated cells were replaced by several smaller vacuoles filled with non-aqueous substances. In X. humilis, these occupied a large proportion of the cytoplasm, preventing plasmalemma withdrawal and cell wall collapse. In C. wilmsii, vacuoles were small but extensive cell wall folding occurred to prevent plasmalemma withdrawal. In M. flabellifolius, some degree of vacuolation and wall folding occurred, but neither were sufficient to prevent plasmalemma withdrawal. This membrane was not ruptured, possibly due to membrane repair at plasmodesmata junctions where tearing might have occurred. In addition, the extra-cytoplasmic compartment appeared to contain material (possibly similar to that in vacuoles) which could facilitate stabilisation of dry cells. Photosynthesis and respiration are particularly susceptible to oxidative stress during drying. Photosynthesis ceased at high water contents and it is proposed that a controlled shut down of this metabolism occurred in order to minimise the potential for photo-oxidation. The mechanisms whereby this was achieved varied among the species. In X. humilis, chlorophyll was degraded and thylakoid membranes dismantled during drying. In both C. wilmsii and M. flabellifolius, chlorophyll was retained, but photosynthesis was stopped due to chlorophyll shading from leaf folding and anthocyanin accumulation. Furthermore, in M. flabellifolius thylakoid membranes became unstacked during drying. All species continued respiration during drying to 10% relative water content, which is proposed to be necessary for energy to establish protection mechanisms. Activity of antioxidant enzymes increased during drying and remained high at low water contents in all species, ameliorating free radical damage from both photosynthesis and respiration. The nature and extent of antioxidant upregulation varied among the species. In C. wilmsii, only ascorbate peroxidise activity increased, but in M. flabellifolius and X. humilis ascorbate peroxidise, glutathione reductase and superoxide dismutase activity increased, to various extents, during drying. Anthocyanins accumulated in all species but this was more extensive in the homoiochlorophyllous types, possibly for protection against photo-oxidation.
20050436|A population of 166 lichens of Xanthoparmelia vagans (Nylander) Hale, an obligatory erratic species, was investigated at 4530 m in the Venezuelan Andes. Lichen size and shape were strongly correlated; larger specimens were less spherical and compact than smaller ones. This was related to a greater frequency of disturbance -- mainly by wind and frost -- of small lichens, which are transported more easily than larger, heavy ones. Constant movement produces nearly spherical specimens, but as lichens grow larger, they are rotated less frequently and rest on a single side for increasingly longer periods; these immobile lichens become progressively more flattened and lenticular in shape. Many large lichens had two distinctive sides, an 'upper' and a 'lower' one, with different coloration. The upper face was pale yellowish green to olive gray (Munsell 5Y 8/4-5/2), the lower one black to very dark brown (10YR 2/1-2/2). Small lichens usually showed no differences between sides. Color variation is also induced by lichen movement. In frequently rotating lichens, thalli grow evenly in all directions due to a uniform insolation. In stationary lichens, thalli remain permanently oriented facing upwards, and their upper and lower sides diverge in coloration. The largest lichens break up easily. Some large specimens were in the process of fragmentation; these had a distinctive 'kidney'-shaped form. Experimental splitting of 16 lichens showed that reduction in size by fragmentation also results in more equant specimens than the original ones. Laboratory experiments on aeolian transport indicated that wind speeds in the paramo are capable of carrying the erratic lichens, but soil areas covered by soil nubbins (miniature mounds produced by needle ice) can trap moving lichens, and greater wind velocities are then needed to re-mobilize them. Lichens were able to quickly absorb and store large amounts of water. Large lichens retained less water than small ones, but lost moisture at much slower rates. Needle-ice growth delivers water to the paramo soil surface, where lichens can readily imbibe it. The water relations of Xanthoparmelia, considered to be ecologically crucial for lichen growth and survival, are discussed in detail.
23267484|Previous research suggests that atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition may facilitate the invasion and persistence of exotic plant species in serpentine grasslands, but the relative impact of increased N availability on native and exotic competitive dynamics has yet to be clearly elucidated. In this study, we evaluated how increased N deposition affects plant performance and competitive dynamics of five native grasses and forbs (Plantago erecta, Layia gaillardioides, Lasthenia californica, Vulpia microstachys, and Cryptantha flaccida) and the most common invasive grass in Bay Area serpentine grasslands, Lolium multiflorum. Using a growth chamber system, we exposed Lolium in monoculture, and native species grown both in monoculture and in competition with the exotic Lolium, to all four possible combinations of gaseous nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ; a dominant atmospheric N pollutant) and soil ammonium nitrate (NH 4 NO 3 ). In monocultures, gaseous NO 2 and soil N addition each increased shoot biomass in Lolium and the natives Layia and Cryptantha. Lolium competitive ability (mean relative yield potentialRYP) increased in response to NO 2 addition plus soil N addition against all native competitors. Lolium and most native species did not show differences in photosynthetic rate and stomatal conductance in response to N addition. Our findings indicate that increasing N deposition and subsequent N accumulation in the soil may confer a competitive advantage to the exotic Lolium over native species by stimulating greater biomass accumulation and N allocation to photosynthetic tissue in the invader.
20051011|To understand inter-trophic linkages between components of the boreal forest understory vegetation, three hypotheses were tested: survival, growth and abundance of grasses and legumes were controlled by (i) resource availability alone, (ii) by herbivores alone, and (iii) by both resource availability and herbivores. The hypotheses were tested using three experimental treatments -- fertilization, herbivore exclusion, and fertilization plus herbivore exclusion -- in three areas having different densities of resident herbivores, mostly snowshoe hares and ground squirrels. The highest density of snowshoe hares is comparable to natural levels during peaks in the snowshoe hare cycle. As the density of herbivores increased so too did the level of response by the measured variables -- survival, growth of transplants and leaf area index of established vegetation. In general, fertilization resulted in a decrease in survival and growth of transplants, and fences increased survival and growth; both responses were more noticeable at higher herbivore densities. Fertilizer and herbivore exclosure fences had only negligible effects on established grass and legume abundance at all hare densities. We have shown that some hypotheses of vegetation regulation are over-simplified because different species groups (i.e., grasses and legumes) are regulated by different factors, at different life history stages, and sometimes these factors act in opposing directions. We argue that during the increase phase and peak of the snowshoe hare cycle (high herbivore density), growth and survival of establishing plants is regulated by herbivores. During the decline and low phases of the snowshoe hare cycle herbivores will have little impact on early life stages, whereas the established, mature, vegetation will be resource-regulated. Because of the variability in responses to the same manipulations we may begin to understand which plant life history stages are most vulnerable to consumer and resource regulation, the magnitudes of these sources of regulation at each of these stages, and how these vary among species groups and types of environments.
24553691|Grassland ecosystems play important roles in the global carbon cycle. The net primary productivity (NPP) of grassland ecosystems has become the hot spot of terrestrial ecosystems. To simulate the NPP in the grasslands of southern China, we built a land portfolio assessment (LPA) model. The LPA model was named according to the framework and principle of this model. From the framework of the model aspect, it was mainly driven by two parameters: leaf area index (LAI) and photosynthesis accumulation (PA). LAI is an extremely important structural characteristic of grassland and directly related to the exchange of energy, CO2 and mass at a variety of scales. PA is represented by the amount of net photosynthetic production based on fixed-point observation. From the principle of the model aspect, it is represented by the inherent implication of NPP and a part of land portfolio assessment. The results showed that the NPP values in the study area had a decreasing trend from east to west and south to north and that the mean NPP was 320 g C m2 year1 from 2001 to 2010. Correlations analysis showed that the correlation coefficient (r) between NPP and highest monthly mean temperature of a year was the maximum (0.6422), and the r value between NPP and annual precipitation was the minimum (0.3821). Using trial and error, the LPA model accurately simulated the NPP dynamics of southern China's grassland ecosystem, and the results were biologically realistic.
41686800|Decreases in abundances and declines in growth of eastern white pine over the past century due mainly to human activities have resulted in few large intact old-growth white pine forests in Ontario. These stands may be vulnerable to replacement by deciduous species from temperate forests further south, where recruitment in canopy gap disturbances can greatly define the regeneration process. We investigated recruitment dynamics in canopy gaps of an old-growth white pine forest of Temagami, northern Ontario, Canada, the northern limit of the temperate-boreal ecotone. White pine, red pine, black spruce and eastern white cedar represented 85 % of the mature canopy abundance, where trees and saplings established equally in gaps and the closed canopy. Balsam fir and paper birch were more abundant in gaps, showing increases of abundance and basal area with increases in gap size representing canopy self-replacement (balsam fir) and autogenic succession (paper birch). Red maple, at its northernmost range limit, was the only species to show linear increases of abundance and basal area with increases in gap size and gap age. This result, along with adult red maples present in gaps but absent from the closed canopy, identifies the establishment of a northward migrating species in gaps as hypothesized for pine forests at the northern limit of this broad ecotone. We discuss how migration pressures, coupled with pine recruitment limitation through reduced fire frequency by regional fire suppression and predicted future increased warming of 2-4 C over the next century, threatens replacement of old-growth white pine forests at this latitude with northward migrating tree species found further south.
20050976|We consider three case studies of long-term plant population dynamics in Makhtesh Ramon erosion cirque in the central Negev desert of Israel. We show that rainfall is the major driving variable in this system, and that it creates large temporal and spatial variation in plant species diversity and vegetation community composition. This variability makes it extremely difficult to distinguish 'signal' (= pattern in vegetation) from 'noise' (random spatial and temporal variance). Our long-term vegetation studies in permanent plots arranged along the length of the cirque, initiated in 1990 and continuing, show that there is high spatial and temporal variance in plant species' incidences and abundances. This is particularly true of annual plant species. However, using pairs of fenced and unfenced plots arranged along the major abiotic gradient, altitude (which mirrors changes in rainfall), we were able to tease apart the effects of variance in rainfall and herbivory. We found significant negative effects of herbivory by the re-introduced Asiatic wild ass (Equus hemionus) on plant cover and on vegetation community composition. In a study of the effects of herbivory by dorcas gazelles (Gazella dorcas) on the lily Pancratium sickenbergeri, we found that there was little inter-annual fluctuation in lily population size in two sand dunes in Makhtesh Ramon in spite of the high percentage of lilies that is removed by the gazelles and the almost complete herbivory of flowers by these herbivores. This result indicates that the dune lily populations may be maintained by dispersal of seed from other lily populations elsewhere in Makhtesh Ramon where gazelles are rare or absent.
20050929|The potential allelopathic role of Artemisia herba-alba has been evaluated in order to explain the community pattern of the gypsum semiarid environments of central Spain. This pattern shows a sharp ecotone between a gypsophile sparse shrubby community dominated by Helianthemum squamatum, which grows on slopes with gypsum surface crusts, and a nitrohalophilous community on the gypsum alluvial soils of piedmont dominated by Artemisia herba-alba. In order to explain this pattern, resource limitation was discarded because no significant differences in several soil parametrers, but fine earth fraction and organic matter content, had been detected in a previous study. Results confirm the inhibitory effect of aqueous extracts on the final germination percentage of scarified seeds of Helianthemum squamatum and also on the shape of the germination curves, which indicate delay of germination for the aqueous extracts. Assays with soil of the Artemisia community (three types) showed that germination was strongly inhibited in soils obtained below the canopy of mature plants (litter maintained) and retarded in the other treatments. We suggest that the spatial community pattern detected in this gypsum environment and characterised by a sharp ecotone could be at least partially controlled by interference through allelopathy. This determines the excliusion of Helianthemum squamatum plants from alluvial soils.
40540332|We compared requirements for seed germination and seedling establishment for Ruellia nudiflora, an invasive species in Yucatan, Mexico with those of the congeneric non-invasive R. pereducta. Germination and seedling survival rates were higher for R. nudiflora than for R. pereducta under high light. Additionally, the ranges of temperature and water potential that allow germination for R. nudiflora were much broader than those of R. pereducta. Seedlings of R. nudiflora exhibited higher survival to drought by shedding their leaves during drought, an important strategy in environments under extreme drought. Seedlings of R. nudiflora also exhibited higher extreme temperature tolerance than R. pereducta seedlings. Overall, traits exhibited by R. nudiflora such as ability to germinate under a wide range of conditions, adaptation to environmental stress and high tolerance to environmental heterogeneity during the seedling stage, have been repeatedly recognized as determinants of colonization success of invasive species in open disturbed areas.
40305578|A 2-year study is presented on the impact of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) on plant productivity, uptake of phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) and diversity of plant community in a herbaceous, P and N limited grassland consisting exclusively of C species and dominated by two plant species less mycotrophic than the subordinate ones. We hypothesized that AMF suppression will increase the abundance of the dominant species with compensatory decreases of subordinate species and decline of the diversity components. Mycorrhizal colonization was suppressed in field plots through application of the fungicide benomyl as a soil drench every 2 weeks during each growing period. Suppression of mycorrhizae lowered P concentrations of the examined species or species groups and decreased the abundance of the P demanding perennial forbs (the non-legume dicots) and most legumes. Concurrently, there were recorded increases in the abundance of the less P demanding grasses, sedges and the legume Doricnium herbaceum. Many rare forb species were not able to establish in the fungicide-treated plots. As a result, in the fungicide-treated plots there was a decline of the diversity components. In spite of the lower efficiency in soil P use and the lower diversity, primary productivity in the fungicide-treated plots did not differ from that of non-treated plots. It is suggested that AMF are important determinants of plant structure and diversity in P limiting soils, and the direction in which fungicide application affects the diversity of plant communities depends on the mycotrophic status of the dominant and subordinate plant species.
20146763|The sudden increase in irradiance after canopy disturbance in primary forest together with the accompanying increase in leaf temperatures is known to cause photoinhibition in shade acclimated foliage of understorey plants. We hypothesized that there is species specific variation among understorey saplings in the magnitude of photoinhibition in response to gap creation, which is related to their requirement for overstorey disturbance. Eleven more or less circular gaps were created varying in size from 60 up to 1459 m. Photoinhibition was assessed by determining predawn and midday
40212951|Characteristics of giant panda herbivory sites and clonal regeneration of an arrow bamboo Fargesia qinlingensis following giant panda grazing were studied in the Qinling Mountains of China. Three types of plots were located in a pandas' summer habitat in 2002: herbivory (naturally grazed by giant pandas), clipped (simulated panda herbivory), and control. Average area of herbivory sites was 2.92 m and average distance from herbivory sites to the closest tree (dbh > 10 cm) was 1.0 m. Pandas avoided thin bamboo culms with basal diameters <5 mm. Average height of stumps of culms grazed by panda was 0.67 m and average density of grazed culms was 9.0 culms m . Annual culm mortality rate was significantly greater in herbivory and clipped plots than in control plots while annual recruitment rate was not significantly different among the three plot types in 2003. Neither recruitment rate nor mortality rate were significantly different among the three plot types in 2004. Annual recruitment rate was significantly greater than annual mortality rate only in control plots in both 2003 and 2004, suggesting static ramet dynamics in disturbed plots (herbivory and clipped). Density of new shoots was not significantly different, but basal diameter of new shoots was significantly less in herbivory plots compared to control plots in 2002. Differences of annual mortality rate and growth of new shoots found between control plots and herbivory plots suggest that clonal regeneration of F. qinlingensis culms was negatively affected by giant panda grazing. Therefore, no evidence of a clonal integration compensatory response to panda herbivory was found in F. qinlingensis.
20051282|Using a spatially and temporally replicated dataset, we built a state-transition model for Californian grasslands. We delineated vegetation states by allowing TWINSPAN to classify plot-level ( 10 m) species cover data collected over 3 to 5 consecutive years on 9 sites in an experimental design that incorporated 5 residual dry matter (RDM) treatment levels representative of the range of grazing management prescriptions for this type (0, 280, 560, 841, 1121 kg
20050437|This phytosociological study, carried out according to the Braun-Blanquet method and supported by cluster analysis, describes Walter's zonobiomes along the North American Pacific coast between the California-Oregon state border and Alaska (USA), including some interior zones of British Columbia and the Yukon Territory (Canada). Twenty two floristic associations are identified and each is characterized by a unique floristic combination, a distinctive geographical range and particular bioclimatic or edaphic conditions.
40305477|The objective of this study was to investigate litter production, litter standing crop and nutrient return to soil in a semi-arid southern African savanna in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. We used a randomized block design with five blocks of 100x100 m demarcated in a 10-ha pocket of Colophospermum mopane-domina. ted open woodland protected from grazing and fire. Litter traps were installed beneath large (8.3 m crown diameter) and small mopane trees (2.7 m crown diameter) and in the intercanopy area, representing 27, 3 and 62% of the woodland area, respectively. Mean annual total litterfall over 2 years of observations was 197, 83 and 35 g m yr 1 beneath large and small trees as well as in the intercanopy area, respectively. Leaf proportions of total litterfall beneath large and small trees and in the intercanopy area were 68.6, 73.0 and 75.3%, respectively. Litterfall followed a uni-modal distribution pattern and was much higher during the period of May-September (dry period) compared to other months. The total potential annual element inputs via litterfall beneath large trees were 2 and 5 times greater than beneath small trees and in the intercanopy area, respectively. Total litter standing crop was 405, 177 and 67 g m beneath large and small trees and in the intercanopy area, respectively. Concentrations of N, P and K in litterfall and surface soil were closely correlated with each other. At all sampling sites, element accession to soil through litterfall followed the decreasing sequence C > Ca > N > Mg > K > P. These results suggest that litterfall is a major process responsible for soil organic matter and nutrient enrichment beneath isolated trees in semi-arid savannas.
20146738|Previous studies have indicated that epiphytic lichens can be good bioindicators of fire history in tropical savannas. A Lichen Fire History (LFH) Key was developed to assess fire history in areas of cerrado (savanna) in central Brazil. However, the effectiveness and reliability of the LFH Key is much influenced by other lichen determinants. The aim of this study, therefore, was to investigate some of these factors in more detail, thereby allowing better estimates of fire history using the LFH Key. Fieldwork was carried out at the Reserva Ecolgica do IBGE, 33 km outside Brasilia D.F., in plots of cerrado denso of varying fire history. Vegetation sampling took place in 20  20 m-quadrats within which measurements of the lichen abundance, scorch and phorophyte characteristics, including height, girth and tortuosity, were recorded for all the phorophytes encountered. Bark samples were collected from common cerrado phorophytes and tested for pH, conductivity, moisture content and absorbing capacity, texture and nutrient content. The results show that the greater the impact of fire, the lower the influence of other factors, such as bark characteristics, on the lichens. The strongest determinants of lichens in areas subjected to rare fires or protected from fire are bark aluminium content, bark pH, and microclimatic factors. Using the information gathered from the study, phorophyte species are grouped in terms of their reliability for use in the LFH Key. This study highlights the range of factors which can affect lichen abundance in the tropics, and the relationships between them.
40305637|The dynamics of aseasonal lowland dipterocarp forest in Borneo is influenced by perturbation from droughts. These events might be increasing in frequency and intensity in the future. This paper describes drought-affected dynamics between 1986 and 2001 in Sabah, Malaysia, and considers how it is possible, reliably and accurately, to measure both coarse-and fine-scale responses of the forest. Some fundamental concerns about methodology and data analysis emerge. In two plots forming 8 ha, mortality, recruitment, and stem growth rates of trees  10 cm gbh (girth at breast height) were measured in a 'predrought' period (1986-1996), and in a period (1996-2001) including the 1997-1998 ENSO-drought. For 2.56 ha of subplots, mortality and growth rates of small trees (10-< 50 cm gbh) were found also for two sub-periods (1996-1999, 1999-2001). A total of c. 19 K trees were recorded. Mortality rate increased by 25% while both recruitment and relative growth rates increased by 12% for all trees at the coarse scale. For small trees, at the fine scale, mortality increased by 6% and 9% from pre-drought to drought and on to 'post-drought' sub-periods. Relative growth rates correspondingly decreased by 38% and increased by 98%. Tree size and topography interacted in a complex manner with between-plot differences. The forest appears to have been sustained by off-setting elevated tree mortality by highly resilient stem growth. This last is seen as the key integrating tree variable which links the external driver (drought causing water stress) and population dynamics recorded as mortality and recruitment. Suitably sound measurements of stem girth, leading to valid growth rates, are needed to understand and model tree dynamic responses to perturbations. The proportion of sound data, however, is in part determined by the drought itself.
40607011|The clumping growth form of tropical bamboos suggests a consolidator strategy in the face of intense competition rather than an ability to exploit disturbance. We investigated the annual growth and culm demographic responses to disturbance by fire and flood of vegetatively mature clumps of a riparian stand of Bambusa arnhemica. Linear-mixed models were employed to control for the non-independence of culm fates within clumps and clump growth among years. As the stand was monodominant and the species is gregariously monocarpic, responses can be interpreted independently of interspecific competition and trade-offs with sexual reproduction. Disturbance depressed clump growth but the culm demographic responses to fire and flood were quite different. Few culms were destroyed during the fire but damage depressed their subsequent survival, leading to declines in clump basal area. Fire also triggered the release of ramet buds, but the additional recruits were small and short-lived. Prolonged and early flooding in one of the study years depressed culm recruitment in clumps low on the lagoon bank but there was possible compensatory recruitment in the following year. There was no convincing evidence that sparse clumps recruited culms better than dense clumps, though culm recruitment was negatively correlated with culm survival. Fire and prolonged flooding are inevitable elements of the environment occupied by B. arnhemica, but we interpret the species' response as persisting in the face of disturbance rather than exploiting the opportunities created by it.
20050996|Most desiccation-tolerant plants alter shoot structure during drying, making it possible to use changes in surface reflectance as a proxy measure of plant water status. Diurnal courses of surface reflectance (albedo) and chlorophyll fluorescence parameters of the ectohydric moss, Tortula ruralis (Hedw.) Gaertn, were measured to assess the coordination between anatomical and physiological features under field conditions. Albedo showed a sigmoidal relationship with relative humidity and the deviation of moss mat temperature from dew point. Maximum photosynthetic quantum yield (
20146676|Bolderslev Skov (113 ha) is the largest contiguous ancient forest remnant in Denmark. The forest has been preserved since 1998 as a strict non-intervention forest reserve. We studied vegetation structure, floristic gradients, and diversity of the forest in 50 plots of 100 m placed according to a restricted random sampling design. Dominant tree species were Fagus sylvatica, Fraxinus excelsior, Tilia cordata and Quercus robur, which in most parts of the forest form a mixed canopy. Most stands appeared to be of moderate age, 55-80 years old, and large old trees were rare. pH in association with light and thickness of the litter layer were the most important factors in explaining floristic gradients in the forest. Soil moisture (dry to mesic) was not strongly correlated with DCA axes for neither tree nor field layer, but had a significant effect on the distribution of a number of herb species. Forest structure was not important in explaining species distributions. Field layer species richness showed a positive relationship with the pH-gradient. At the scale of 1m plots we also found a highly significant negative relationship between field layer species richness and the plot-wise Ellenberg indicator value for nitrogen availability. Structure of the tree layer had little effect on field layer species richness. The mixed composition, long continuity, and presence of a high proportion of the regional species pool assigns a high conservation value to Bolderslev Skov and makes it an important site for future studies of the dynamic properties, niche preferences, and inter-specific competition of temperate deciduous forest species.
20146400| Increasing dominance of grass species such as Deschampsia flexuosa on lowland dry heathlands is a major problem for land managers. This problem is especially acute in north-west Europe where replacement of dwarf-shrubs by grasses has been linked to high levels of nitrogen deposition. Interactions between Calluna vulgaris and D. flexuosa were examined using pot experiments under a variety of watering (drought vs. no drought), nitrogen addition (10 vs. 50 kg N ha yr) and soil type (peaty vs. sandy) regimes. Two experiments using identical replacement series designs were used to investigate interactions between these two species at the seedling and young plant stage. Response of the two species to the environmental variables was different for seedlings and young plants. In the seedling experiment D. flexuosa responded significantly to soil type only, with greater cover on peaty soil than on sandy soil after 6 months. C. vulgaris germination showed a significant response to watering regime, with fewer seedlings in plots that had a drought treatment imposed. When the experiment was repeated using young plants of C. vulgaris and D. flexuosa both species responded significantly to soil type only. Height, % cover and shoot biomass of both species were greater when grown in peaty soil than when grown in sandy soil. Watering and nitrogen addition had few significant effects. Species interactions were mainly one-way. C. vulgaris biomass yield was reduced when grown in mixture with D. flexuosa, whilst D. flexuosa yield was unaffected by the presence of C. vulgaris. The yield density curve for D. flexuosa indicated that intra-specific competition was occurring at planting densities above 29 plants m whilst this was not seen for C. vulgaris. The effect of soil type on species interactions was also investigated. C. vulgaris was best able to compete with D. flexuosa on sandy soils where the shoot biomass ratio was greatest (C. vulgaris:D. flexuosa = 1:4.4). Differences in the responses of these species to the environmental variables investigated may help to explain heathland vegetation changes seen under field conditions. 
20051082|Patches of vegetation of six common species growing on Lonie Island (6735 S, 6820 W), Antarctic Peninsula region were covered with either UV-B transparent perspex screens or UV-B absorbing screens. Uncovered plots served as a control. Temperature and relative humidity were monitored during the austral summer under and outside the screens. The mean effective PSII quantum efficiency showed significant differences among the species, but not between the UV-B treatments. It was concluded that the temperature and the moisture status of the vegetation obscured any possible influence of UV-B treatment on the tteffective PSII quantum efficiency. he usefulness of various UV-B exclusion and supplementation methods used to study the influence of UV-B in the field is discussed.
20050812|English broom (Cytisus scoparius) is an aggressive invasive shrub in native sclerophyll forests of South Australia. We studied its relative growth rate (RGR) and competitive ability in soils from invaded and uninvaded woodlands, in comparison to three native species it commonly displaces:Hakea rostrata, Acacia verniciflua, and A. myrtifolia. Hakea was the slowest growing species throughout the year. Both native species had their highest RGR during spring. The RGR of broom was higher than that of both hakea and acacia in the winter and spring. Despite losing its leaves in the summer, the RGR of broom through the year was higher than that of either of the native species. Soil from the invaded stands had higher organic C, N and soluble P than that from uninvaded sites. Broom and acacia grew better in the higher nutrient soil than in the lower nutrient soil. Competition did not decrease the final biomass of any of the species in low nutrient soil. In the higher nutrient soil the biomass of broom was reduced by competition with acacia, but not by competition with hakea. Competition by broom reduced the biomass of hakea but not that of acacia. Broom's earlier and higher RGR, high competitiveness in nutrient rich soils, and probably its ability to change nutrient availability could be important contributors to the mechanisms by which it invades native woodlands.
40305751|Climate warming is likely to increase nutrient mineralization rates in bog ecosystems which may change the plant species composition. We examined the competitive relationships between two graminoid species, Eriophorum vaginatum and Rhynchospora alba, and two ericoid species, Calluna vulgaris and Vaccinium oxycoccus, at different nutrient supply rates. In a greenhouse, the plants were grown in monocultures and mixtures at four nutrient treatments: control, high N, high P, and high N + P. The results show that the ericoids responded more strongly to the nutrient treatments than the graminoids. The dwarf shrubs showed higher growth rates and reduced root: shoot ratio at high N + P supply. When grown in mixture the ericoids increased their growth, while graminoids decreased in biomass or showed signs of nutrient limitation compared to their monoculture plants. This suggests that under increased nutrient availability, bogs are more likely to turn into dwarf shrub dominated ecosystems and not grassland.
20146532|A seed sowing experiment was conducted in a mixed secondary woodland on acidic soils in NE Germany with Melampyrum pratense, an annual ant-dispersed forest herb which lacks a natural population in the study area, but is abundant in similar habitats. Each set of 300 seeds was sown within one square metre at three sites in 1997, and the development of the populations was recorded from 1998 onward. Additionally, seed fall patterns were studied in a natural population by means of adhesive cardboard. All trials resulted in the recruitment of populations, which survived and increased in both individual number and area, up to the year 2001. Thus, local distribution of Melampyrum pratense is dispersal-limited. Total individual number increased from 105 to 3,390, and total population area from 2.07 to 109.04 m. Migration occurred in all directions. Mean migration rate was 0.91 m per year, and the highest migration rate was 6.48 m. No individual was recorded beyond 7.63 m from the centres of the sawn squares after three years, suggesting exclusive short-distance dispersal. As primary dispersal enables only distances of up to 0.25 m, ants are presumed to be the main dispersal vectors. Despite differences in individual number and colonization patterns, migration rates did not differ significantly between the populations, but were significantly higher in 2001 due to an increased population size. Colonization patterns were characterized by a rapid, negative exponential decrease of population density with increasing distance from the sown plot, suggesting a colonization by establishment of more or less isolated outposts of individuals and a subsequent gradual infill of the gaps between. My results resemble myrmecochorous dispersal distances in temperate wood-lands, and migration rates and patterns across ecotones from ancient to recent deciduous forests. They may function as a colonization model of Melampyrum pratense after accidental long-distance dispersal.
20146408|Our objective was to evaluate the effects of an invasive perennial forb, Acroptilon repens (Russian knapweed), on seed emergence and seedling survival of four native grass species that are important in semiarid grasslands of North America. Greenhouse experiments and field studies conducted at three sites in Colorado, USA were used to examine the response by four perennial grasses: Bouteloua gracilis, Koelaria cristata, Sporobolus cryptandrus, and Agropyon smithii to A. repens. In the greenhouse, seeds of each species were sown in pots that contained either live A. repens roots, A. repens litter on the soil surface, or both roots and litter. Field transects were placed inside stands of A. repens with adjacent control transects in the surrounding grass-dominated community. Emergence and initial survival were decreased by the presence of A. repens roots for K. cristata (35%), B. gracilis (31%), and S. cryptandrus (44%) in the greenhouse, and 57, 32, and 36%, respectively, in the field. Root weight was decreased by the presence of A. repens roots for both B. gracilis and K. cristata by more than 55% in the greenhouse. A. smithii survival and growth were unaffected by A. repens in either the greenhouse or the field. These species-specific responses to the presence of A. repens may explain, at least in part, differences in susceptibility and recovery of sites with different native grass species composition.
23500412|Global land use and ongoing climate change highlight the importance of ecological restoration as an emerging discipline and underscore the need for successful revegetation techniques. To link mechanistic drivers of seedling establishment with techniques to increase revegetation success, we undertook field-based experiments in degraded periurban woodlands in Mediterranean southwestern Australia using two iconic tree species. Over the course of an entire growing season, our objectives were to: (1) characterise soil moisture profiles in relation to site preparation techniques (ripping and created ashbeds) and (2) determine whether early seedling establishment can be increased through site preparation techniques (ripping and ashbeds), plant treatments (various fertilisers and biochar) and early planting during the wet season. Ripping significantly reduced soil compaction and was associated with a significant soil moisture stratification; moisture penetrated to greater depths in soils that were ripped or treated with ashbeds. Particular site preparation techniques (ripping) and early planting significantly increased early establishment, health and growth of tree seedlings. Fertilisation effects varied by species with generally neutral effects on seedlings. Finally, seedlings planted in ripped soils had significantly longer, deeper root systems accessing portions of the soil profile with higher summer moisture. Techniques such as ripping, even in deep sandy soils, reduce soil compaction and alter moisture availability within the soil profile, promoting deeper root growth and thus increasing revegetation success in these degraded Mediterranean ecosystems. Linkage of revegetation outcomes with plant response and physical soil properties associated with particular treatments provides critical knowledge for both restoration scientists and land managers.
20146378| Root proliferation of desirable (Stipa clarazii and S. tenuis) and undesirable (S. ambigua) perennial grasses was studied in semiarid rangelands of Central Argentina (4039S, 6254W) in 1998. On 17 September, soil cores were removed from the edge of the plant, metal structures lined with screen mesh (hereafter called bags) were buried in the holes, and root-free soil was placed into these structures. Numbers of green tillers and circumference per plant had previously been determined. Since plants were of unequal size among species, root length and root dry weight data are reported on a per green tiller basis. Half of the plants was defoliated to 5 cm stubble height on 17 September and/or 12 October, while the other half remained undefoliated (controls). Bags were destructively harvested either 20 days after the first defoliation (first sampling) or 56 days after the second defoliation (second sampling) by digging out soil very carefully around each bag. Roots were washed from soil, root length estimated by the line intercept method, root dry weight determined after oven-drying, and root length per unit root dry weight calculated from the two measured variables. Root length and dry weight were more than 96% greater on defoliated and undefoliated plants of S. clarazii than on those of S. tenuis or S. ambigua for both sampling dates. Root length per unit root dry weight, however, was more than 43% greater (p &lt 0.05) in S. tenuis than in S. clarazii and S. ambigua during the second sampling. Defoliated plants had a similar root length and root dry weight than undefoliated plants in all three species, although plants of S. tenuis defoliated twice showed a greater (p &lt 0.05) root length than undefoliated controls. Root length and root dry weight were similar between sampling periods, except on undefoliated plants of S. tenuis which had a greater (p &lt 0.05) root length and root dry weight at the first than at the second sampling. Although root length per unit root dry weight may be greater in S. tenuis than in S. clarazii and S. ambigua, greater root length and dry weight increases in S. clarazii after defoliation appear determinant in contributing to explain its greater competitive ability and defoliation tolerance when compared with the other two species. Nomenclature of taxa followed Cano (1988). 
20146782|Colonisation is often a critical stage in the life history of plants, and recruitment success is expected to have a strong impact on plant frequencies especially among herbs. Several plant traits (seed size, plant height, leaf dry weight and specific leaf area) are suggested to be functionally important in early life stages, and the impact of such traits is expected to increase with habitat harshness. In this comparative study we examine the relatie role of different plant traits for herb community patterns on both a local and regional scale in two contrasting alpine ecosystems in southern Norway: (1) a sub-continental region with more dry and productive, base-rich soils (Ho1, Hallingdal) and (2) an oceanic region, with humid acidic soils (Setesdal). Differences in species richness between regions were mainly due to higher herb richness in the base-rich region (n = 55) than in the acidic region (n = 13). Among traits, herb species seed weight was higher at the acidic site. The relative importance of traits for explaining herb local abundance and regional distribution tended to be stronger at the acidic site. No trait had a significant effect at the base-rich site, although seed weight and seed number were marginally non-significant. Plant clonality was positively related to local abundance and marginally to regional distribution at the acidic site. Plant frequency-trait correlations were generally higher in the acidic region then in the base-rich region. There was further a (marginal) increase of herbs with large seeds and with a dependence on sexual reproduction with increasing pH levels in Ho1. Soil pH was also the most important environmental variable for herb richness in Ho1, while no environmental variable was significantly related to herb richness in Setesdal. The study suggests that recruitment through seed is critical for the alpine herb community patterns especially in harsh habitats. Possible explanations for recruitment constraints include both soil acidity (low pH and Ca levels in addition to possible aluminium toxicity) and disturbance through grazing.
40305759|The present work proposes new boundaries for the current submediterranean territories of the Iberian Peninsula, defining them at the smallest scale attempted to date. The boundaries proposed are not sharp divisions but somewhat 'gradual', reflecting the transitional nature of the territories they encompass. Climate change predictions were used to estimate how the distribution of these submediterranean regions might change in the near future. The maps constructed are based on the distribution of marcescent Quercus speciestrees that characterise the submediterranean plant landscape where they form the main forest communities. To determine their climatic range, the distribution of different types of Iberian oak forest was represented in 'climate diagrams' (ordination diagrams derived from principal components analysis), both in terms of individual species and groups of species based on leaf ecophysiological type, i.e. marcescent (Submediterranean), sclerophyllous (Mediterranean), semideciduous (Mediterranean) and deciduous (Eurosiberian). The climate range of each type of forest was determined, and the means of representative climate variables are analysed by one way ANOVA. The variables differentiating the forest groups were also examined by discriminant analysis. The range of the climate variables found to be associated with the majority of marcescent forests was used to determine the distribution of territories throughout the Peninsula with the same conditions (i.e. whether marcescent forests were present or not), thus providing a map of the Iberian submediterranean territories. Predictions of climate change were used to investigate possible climateinduced modifications in the boundaries of these territories in the near future. The patterns obtained show dramatic reductions in the extension of the Iberian submediterranean environment. Submediterranean conditions will probably disappear from the areas where they currently reign, and it seems unlikely that any new, large submediterranean areas will form by displacement towards higher altitudes. The outlook for the unique submediterranean vegetation of the Iberian Peninsula is gloomy.
20050461|Short-term studies of tree growth at elevated CO suggest that forest productivity may increase as atmospheric CO concentrations rise, although low soil N availability may limit the magnitude of this response. there have been few studies of growth and N fixation by symbiotic N-fixing woody species under elevated CO and the N inputs these plants could provide to forest ecosystems in the future. We investigated the effect of twice ambient CO on growth, tissue N accretion, and N fixation of nodulated Alnus glutinosa (L.) Gaertn, grown under low soil N conditions for 160 d. Root, nodule, stem, and leaf dry weight (DW) and N accretion increased significantly in response to elevated CO. Whole-plant biomass and N accretion increased 54% and 40%, respectively. Delta-
40540349|Tree establishment in grazed vegetation mosaics involves a series of early bottlenecks, including seed dispersal, germination, seedling emergence, survival and growth. In a field experiment, we studied seedling emergence of two species with contrasting recruitment strategies, Fraxinus excelsior and Quercus robur, in five structurally different vegetations: grazed and ungrazed grassland, ruderal pioneer vegetation, soft rush tussocks, tall sedge mats and bramble scrub. In a simulation experiment, we studied the interaction effects of pre-emergence flooding (3 weeks of inundation), trampling and grazing (simulated by clipping) of grassland vegetation on the emergence and early growth of both tree species in grass swards. Seedling emergence was enhanced in low swards and sparse vegetation types. Despite different recruitment strategies, the interaction of flooding and trampling of swards enhanced seedling emergence of both species. Grazing of soft rush and tall sedges enhanced emergence of F. excelsior. Clipping grass swards increased early growth of emerging Q. robur. Our results support the hypothesis that natural disturbances of soil and vegetation create microsites for seedling emergence and reduce aboveground competition. In grazed systems however, these results suggest a discordant relationship between successful seedling emergence and subsequent seedling growth/survival during the establishment process in structurally different vegetations.
20146409|The objective of this study was to identify the causes of the limits of the geographical range of Hippocrepis comosa. Along a gradient from the northwestern distribution boundary towards the distribution centre in Germany, 46 field plots were established where growth and microclimate were monitored simultaneously. In total, 11 vegetative and generative traits and 7 microclimatic parameters were recorded over 7 time intervals during the vegetation period, together with 14 general site parameters. Regression analyses were performed between all traits and environmental parameters in a certain interval. At the beginning of the growing season the best positive correlation coefficients for vegetative growth were observed with soil temperature. From the end of May to the middle of June, vegetative growth rates decreased and showed the best positive correlation with soil water content. Despite credible relationships between vegetative growth and microclimate, their contribution toward explaining the northern distribution boundary was found to be limited, because no correlation with the distance from the distribution boundary was observed. The only growth parameter that showed both a positive correlation with distance from the distribution boundary and a significant correlation with microclimate was the percentage of seed setting, which increased towards the distribution centre and was correlated with air temperature. Further field observations on plots outside the actual range of Hippocrepis comosa revealed no microclimatic reasons as to why the species was absent from these sites. This shows that the environmental parameters are in no way deterministic for the range limit. The frost hardiness of Hippocrepis comosa was studied in additional laboratory experiments in which significant damage was not found above -18C for adult plants and above -14C for seedlings, which is remarkably low and too low to be relevant for the northwestern distribution boundary. Another field experiment revealed that seedling establishment exhibited a positive relationship to soil water content, which became more favourable towards the range boundary. It is concluded that temperature, particularly air temperature, makes the largest contribution to explaining the northern distribution boundary of Hippocrepis comosa in Germany and that mainly generative reproduction is affected.
40212903|Scorpiurus subvillosus L., wide spread in pastures of Mediterranean basin, is disappearing in the native pastures of the Hyblean plateau (Sicily, southern Italy), because of overgrazing and intensive management techniques. Moreover, it exhibits seed coat dormancy, which delays and reduces germination preventing its diffusion. This paper represents a first attempt in order to investigate changing in germination determined by storage time and temperature on seeds of two populations of S. subvillosus. Germination of S. subvillosus seeds was tested in relation to four storage time (30, 130, 200 and 360 days after harvest (DAH)), eight constant temperatures (5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40C) and two populations of different provenience (30 and 600 m above mean sea level). The experiments were conducted either on scarified and unscarified seeds. In S. subvillosus the failure of germination under favourable conditions must be attributed only to seed coat, since seed scarification enhanced germination percentage with values up to 100% at almost all tested temperatures. In both treatments, but with a grater incidence in unscarified, seed germination increased gradually as temperature raised, peaking at 20-25C, then declined with further increases of temperatures. At 40C no germination occurred. Storage time induced a softening effect, which is somewhat limited by the natural ageing of seeds occurring from about 6 months after harvest.
41508754|An understanding of the processes and environmental conditions governing spatial variation in reproductive performance of plants can provide important information about the factors characterizing plant community structure and influencing fitness in natural plant populations, especially in the context of climate and land use change. In this study, 60 mountain populations of Dactylis glomerata distributed along a fertilization regime in varying grassland hay meadows were evaluated. Variations in field management, climate, soil fertility, vegetation structure, population density and species richness on reproductive performance were examined. The results indicated that field management and soil nutrient availability are the main variables influencing population density and reproductive output of D. glomerata. Moreover, the results show the effect of temperature on seed mass and resource investment in reproduction. Climate and soil change suggest a morphological differentiation of reproductive traits: (i) individuals grown on sites with higher soil nutrient availability or nutrient supply have larger inflorescences with a greater number and heavier seeds; (ii) individuals grown on warmer sites have heavier seeds. We conclude that if the climate warms and increases land use intensification in hay meadows in the Alps, this will have a pronounced positive impact on the reproductive performance of D. glomerata. Moreover, it can be hypothesized that the migration potential of D. glomerata towards higher altitudes may be likely in the near future in response to accelerated climate change.
40540345|Placing plant organs into upper canopy layers or gaps is considered advantageous for avoiding neighbours. Current research only covers the lack of selective branching in response to heterogeneous radiation in dicots. Due to some unique shade avoidance regulatory pathways and clonal structure, directional response may occur in grasses. I used Festuca rubra L., a grass with two types of branches: intravaginal tillers developed from young buds close to the primary shoot, and extravaginal tillers developed from older buds and placed on rhizomes in a certain distance from the mother tussocks. Tussocks grown from vegetativelly multiplied initial tillers were exposed to three radiation regimes in two greenhouse experiments: full sunlight, full shading simulating canopy and heterogeneous radiation. Interaction of the treatments with orientation of the initial tillers relative to their mother tillers, which may constrain morphology of the developing tussocks, were studied. Even though shading decreased the number of intravaginal tillers, heterogeneous radiation did not influence direction of their outgrowth. However, shading activated dormant buds at the tussock base and thus stimulated extravaginal tillering, with a tendency to develop more extravaginal tillers towards the shaded sites.
40606975|Sphagnum capillifolium mesocosms collected from an ombrotrophic blanket bog were subjected to controlled photon flux densities (control and shaded) and nitrogen (low and high) treatments between November 2003 and August 2004. Shading significantly reduced biomass of S. capillifolium (P < 0.001), whilst nitrogen (N) supply significantly increased biomass (P < 0.05) suggesting that S. capillifolium was limited by N. There was no significant interaction between shading and N on biomass. S. capillifolium responded to shading via morphophysiological and biochemical alterations to the photosynthetic tissues such as (1) break down of anthocyanins involved in photoprotection of chloroplasts, (2) translocation of N from mineralized N or old tissues and (3) allocation of translocated N to photosynthetic pigments. The results suggest that S. capillifolium can tolerate both low and high light intensities, as well as high N supply via morphophysiological responses but does not acclimate to deep shade, since biomass was reduced. Anthocyanins rather than carotenoids appear to play an essential role in photoprotection with translocation serving as the important source of N. It has been suggested that global change in temperature and N availability may lead to increased vascular plant growth that could increase shade leading to a shift from Sphagnum spp. to vascular species in peatlands. However, the species S. capillifolium appears to tolerate deep shade and high N deposition due to the mechanisms shown here suggesting that this species may continue to persist in peatland ecosystems.
41508695|Dispersal or recruitment limitation may arrest succession after disturbance. In north-eastern South Africa the Acacia karroo successional pathway is used to facilitate coastal forest recovery after stripmining. However, although A. karroo establishes naturally, it forms monospecific stands, arresting forest succession for decades. This casts doubt on the efficacy of this restoration pathway. We investigated the causes of arrested succession. The seed and seedling banks of A. karroo stands and of forest at Cape Vidal, and three A. karroo stands (7-27 years old) on rehabilitated strip-mined dunes at nearby Richards Bay were examined. The establishment and growth of seedlings at Cape Vidal were also considered. The seed bank was larger and more diverse in forest, but the seedling bank was larger in Acacia stands. At Richards Bay, the size of the seed bank increased and the seedling bank decreased with Acacia stand age. Excluding mammalian herbivores in Acacia stands at Cape Vidal resulted in greater species richness and survival of naturally established seedlings, as well as two experimentally planted species. Neither seed dispersal nor seedling establishment limited recruitment of tree species in Acacia stands. Herbivory arrested forest succession by causing the differential mortality of seedlings. In contrast, at Richards Bay where there were few mammalian herbivores, the advanced regeneration in A. karroo stands converged on the diversity of nearby forests 29 years after restoration. Controlling herbivore access and seeding Acacia stands with forest species are site-specific options for preventing arrested succession when using the A. karroo successional pathway.
23362525|Seed predation and seedling mortality can act as strong demographic "bottlenecks" to sapling recruitment in African savanna woodlands. Fire also limits tree recruitment from saplings by suppressing their growth. I conducted field experiments with 13 woody plant species to assess the effects of seed burial on seedling emergence rates and effects of fire on seedling and sapling survival and growth rates over a period of 8 years at a savanna plot in central Zambia, southern Africa. Seed removal rates by small rodents varied among years and buried seeds had significantly higher emergence rates than seeds exposed to predators in most but not all the species. Annual burning reduced sapling growth in some species but in other species saplings experienced successive shoot die back even in the absence of fire. The findings show that for some woody species, seed predation is an important constraint to seedling recruitment but not for others and annual fires are important hindrances to demography and growth for some species but not others. Thus, demographic "bottlenecks" occur at different life history stages in different savanna woody species and these have the potential to alter woody tree competitive relationships and ultimately savanna structure.
20146453|Despite increasing recognition of the role spatial pattern can play in ecosystem function, few studies have quantified spatial heterogeneity in savanna ecosystems. The spatial distribution of herbaceous biomass and species composition was measured across three scales in a semi-arid savanna in central Kenya, and patterns were related to environmental variables at different scales. Herbaceous biomass declined across a rainfall gradient and from upper to lower topographic positions, but variation within a site (across 5-50 m) was similar in magnitude to among-site variation associated with rainfall and topography. Geostatistical analyses showed that patchiness at scales of 5-25 m explained 20% of total variation in herbaceous biomass. This pattern arose from the presence of both 5-10-m diameter patches containing high herbaceous biomass (&gt 170 g m) and 5-10-m diameter patches characterized by nearly bare soil surfaces (&lt 40 g m). Patch structure was contingent on topography, with larger bare patches at ridgeline and upper hillslope positions. Grass species distributions showed the greatest degree of patch structure and species turnover across distances of 5-45 m. Additional community variation was associated with topography, with minimal variation in species composition across the rainfall gradient. Pattern diversity significantly exceeded levels reported for four other grassland ecosystems, suggesting fundamental differences in local processes generating spatial pattern. It is hypothesized that heterogeneously distributed grazing pressure, interacting with the distribution of shrub canopies, is an important factor generating such high levels of small-scale patch structure in this savanna.
20146882|Dormancy in the hard seed coats of Mediterranean species is considered a strategy that enables persistent seed banks to be formed in the soil. An important factor related to seed coat fracture and dormancy breakage in Mediterranean ecosystems is heat. Nevertheless, the effect of factors other than heat on dormancy breakage in these species has hardly been studied. To investigate the different ecological factors involved in germination, in the laboratory we applied several scarification treatments to seeds with chromatic polymorphism. We evaluated the effect of soil seed depth during experimental burns by sowing seeds at -1, -3 and -5 cm in the soil profile, and we also studied the effect of seed origin on the posterior germination of seeds from 4 and 10 year-old shrubs as well as from the soil seed bank. U. parviflorus shows clear chromatic polymorphism: its brown seeds present higher dormancy levels than its yellow seeds. The different techniques of dormancy breakage result in different degrees of germination; the highest degree of germination is generated by the mechanical treatment, followed by the acid and the heat treatments, in that order. The depth of the seeds in the soil determines the temperature thresholds and the residence times of these temperatures and whether they stimulate a massive germination at the -1 cm soil profile or only a slight germination at the -5 cm depth. Seeds recently produced by the plant show higher dormancy levels than seeds extracted from soil seed banks. Dormancy levels also depend on the shrubland age used for extracting the soil samples (3&gt9 years old). In effect, from the point of view of dormancy, the germination behaviour of U. parviflorus seeds seems to follow a multiresponse strategy based on different seed populations and involving both biological and abiotic processes to break dormancy.
20146528| Natural disturbances introduce spatial heterogeneity into forests by causing non-random mortality of trees. We examined whether wind was the primary cause of spatial patterns of dead trees at fragment- and individual tree-levels in three fragments of temperate deciduous forests in Illinois, USA. Dead trees and wind-caused types of mortality were expected to be higher at forest edges, on windward aspects, in poorly-drained soils, and adjacent to existing canopy gaps. The extent of wind-related mortality was determined by comparing spatial and temporal patterns of dead trees, as well as characteristics of trees downed by single windstorms versus all dead trees. At the fragment-level, we used randomly located quadrats of 2525 m to sample edge and interior areas of Trelease Woods, Brownfield Woods, and Hart Woods in 1995-1996 and again in 1999-2000. We noted type of mortality (standing dead, snapped-off, or uprooted trees), and measured DBH ( 10 cm) and direction of fall of each dead tree. The same measures were made for trees felled by two single storms in 1994. At the individual tree-level, domino effects were evaluated by comparing openness surrounding target treefalls vs. an equal sample size of living trees. The study provided limited evidence that wind caused spatial patterns of dead trees. Instead, spatial patterns of dead trees in the fragments accumulated from domino effects at the individual tree-level in two of the three fragments. Dead trees were more associated with preexisting gaps. Contrary to our predictions at the fragment-level, the frequency of dead trees was not greater at edges, on windward aspects, or in poorly drained soils. This study demonstrated the complexity of spatial patterns of dead trees in forest fragments. The significant domino effects indicated that the occurrence of dead trees was not random, but determined by previous disturbances. 
20050916|We examined the entire spatial distribution of a narrow endemic shrub (Coccoloba cereifera, Polygonaceae) in Serra do Cip, Brazil. We tested the hypothesis that a narrow endemic species would show a gradual decline in either size and density towards the edges of its distribution. The contribution of soil specificity and post-fire growth to C. cereifera abundance and distribution were also investigated. C. cereifera showed multimodal and highly aggregated distribution pattern at several scales, from 25 m to 3000 m (blocked quadrat variance analyses). This pattern seems to be strongly related to the predominance of clonal recruitment and to the close association of the species to sandfields, which have discrete distribution between gallery forests and rocky outcrops. Population density did not decline towards the edge of the species distribution. Plants near the distribution boundaries had slightly more leaves and more inflorescences per plant (p &lt 0.005), but there was no significant change in the mean number of ramets per clone. The absence of large plants in some populations at the center of the species distribution may be related to the higher frequency of fire in this region, killing aerial plant parts. Nearly all aggregations had inverse-J shaped size-distribution, suggesting effective recruitment of ramets, most frequently via asexual reproduction. Similar patterns of plant abundance may be common in fire-prone habitats characterized by infertile, and well-drained soils since these areas generally have high numbers of endemic plants, with strong soil specificity. Possible mechanisms for the observed pattern are discussed considering current models concerning distribution of abundance of species.
41508806|A majority of ecological studies of roads have usually focused on their deleterious effect, and these preconceptions have hampered a full evaluation of ecological functions of roads. We examined the effect of road disturbance on plant communities by investigating roadside vegetation in the protogenic road ecosystem of the Yellow River Delta (YRD), China. Specifically, we examined the effect of distance from the road verge and road age on the pattern of plant species richness, diversity, and composition at 17 sites. The results revealed that roads retained higher species richness adjacent to the road verge than far away from the road verge (> 200 m). Additionally, species richness and diversity of roadside plants significantly decreased as the distance from the road verge increased. Plant species richness and diversity increased with road age in majority of prescribed distances, while species richness at the road verge significantly increased with road age and peaked at a road age of 20 years, after which species richness plateaued. A correspondence analysis illuminated that the roadside vegetation primarily consists of non-halophytic native species. The percentage of halophytes increased with the distance from the road verge and decreased with road age. Additionally, different performances of alien and native species in response to road disturbance were observed. Furthermore, it is worth noting that roadside environments provide survival habitats for some threatened species, such as wild soybean. In the present study, both positive and negative effects of roads on the plant community were observed from road construction to the long-term operational phases.
41412366|In the past few decades, it has been widely accepted that forest loss due to human actions alter the interactions between organisms. We studied the relationship between forest fragment size and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and dark septate endophytes (DSE) colonization, and the AMF spore communities in the rhizosphere of two congeneric Euphorbia species (native and exotic/invasive). We hypothesized that these fungal variables will differ with fragment size and species status, and predicted that (a) AMF and DSE colonization together with AMF spore abundance and diversity would be positively related to forest fragment size; (b) these relationships will differ between the exotic and the native species; and (c) there will be a negative relationship between forest fragment size and the availability of soil nutrients (NH, NO, and phosphorus). This study was performed in the eight randomly selected forest fragments (0.861000 ha), immersed in an agricultural matrix from the Chaquean region in central Argentina. AMF root colonization in the native and exotic species was similar, and was positively related with forest fragment size. Likewise, AMF spore diversity and spore abundance were higher in the larger fragments. While DSE root colonization in the native host was positively related with forest fragment size, DSE colonization in the exotic host showed no relationship. Soil nutrients contents were negatively related with forest fragment size. In addition, NH and NO were negatively correlated with AMF spores abundance and root colonization and with DSE colonization in the native species. The results observed in this study show how habitat fragmentation might affect the interaction between key soil components, such as rhizospheric plant-fungal symbiosis and nutrient availability. These environmental changes may have important consequences on plant community composition and nutrient dynamics in this fragmented landscape.
20050968|We investigated the cost of sporophyte production in the moss Dicranum polysetum both by examining patterns of growth and reproduction in unmanipulated shoots and by experimentally manipulating sexual reproduction. The estimated proportion of total carbon investment allocated to sexual reproduction in sporophyte-producing shoots over the study period was 74.8%. Unmanipulated shoots that aborted all sporophytes had a significantly higher growth in the top shoots than shoots that produced sporophytes. In sporophyte-producing shoots, total apical growth decreased proportionately with the number of sporophytes. Experimental prevention of sporophyte development resulted in significantly higher total apical growth of the gametophytes. Shoots where current perichaetia were lacking when marked had a mass increase in the top shoots similar to manipulated sporophytic shoots whereas sporophytic control shoots grew significantly less than these two categories. The difference between control shoots and manipulated shoots in the mass of vegetative apical growth was mainly because of different length increments whereas mass per unit length was similar between groups. The probability to reproduce sexually in the year after the manipulation, and the biomass allocated to this reproduction, were not affected by the experimental treatment.
20050679|Spatial patterns of plant diversity in the North American boreal forest were examined according to three plant life forms (woody plants, herbaceous plants, and bryophytes) and two taxonomic levels (species and genus), using sixty 9-ha plots sampled in white spruce (Picea glauca (Moench) Voss) and black spruce (Picea mariana (P. Mill.) B.S.P.) ecosystems along a transcontinental transect from the Pacific coast eastwards to the Atlantic coast. The patterns of inventory diversity (represented by alpha diversity), differentiation diversity (represented by the similarity index, habitat-heterogeneity index, similarity decay rate, and length of the first axis in detrended correspondence analysis), and pattern diversity (represented by the mosaic diversity index) were assessed along the transect in both ecosystem types. At the stand level, central North America had the highest alpha diversity in terms of the number of species or genera, and western North America had a higher alpha diversity than eastern North America. At the continental scale, herbaceous plants had the highest beta diversity in terms of floristic change from the eastern to western North America, bryophytes had the lowest beta diversity, and woody plants were in the middle, regardless of ecosystem type and taxonomic level. Central North America had the lowest mosaic diversity across the boreal transect of North America. The white spruce ecosystems had a higher alpha diversity than the black spruce ecosystems regardless of plant life form, taxonomic level and geographic location. The white spruce ecosystems tended to have more bryophytes, less woody plants, and higher species: genus ratio than the black spruce ecosystems. In general, the white spruce and black spruce ecosystems shared the same patterns in diversity changes at different spatial scales, plant life forms, and taxonomic levels across the transect studied. The existing patterns of plant diversity in the North American boreal forest area resulted from a combination of ecological processes and spatial configuration.
20146823|We emphasize the necessity of a complex approach to evaluating vegetation change at various levels of abstraction. The analytical steps include comparisons at the data, derived variable, distance, ordination and classification levels. A variety of data randomization methods incorporated in testing the significance of changes in raw data are introduced and compared. It is shown that these are true alternatives to Procrustean comparisons, which offer an apparently unfortunate choice in the presence/absence case. We propose to evaluate nearest neighbor relationships among quadrats in a new method, called adjacency analysis, to detect temporal trends that may remain unrevealed, should our attention be paid to full distance structures only. As an illustration, compositional and structural changes in the rock grassland vegetation of the Sas-hegy Nature Reserve (Budapest, Hungary), intensively sampled by quadrats in 1977 and 2000, are evaluated. Permutation tests show that differences between the 2 years are much smaller than expected by chance alone. Such an overall stability in community structure, however, does not mean that minor aspects of vegetation pattern are invariant over the years. Changes in life form and seed mass spectra are explained by the fluctuation of hemicryptophytes and the slight but detectable expansion of annuals and woody species. Classification is slightly rearranged in time, with clearly detectable within-cluster changes, also depicted in ordination scattergrams.
40305454|Riparian forests are increasingly threatened by urban expansion and land use change worldwide. This study examined the relationships between landscape characteristics and woody plant diversity, structure, and composition of small order riparian corridors along an urban-rural land use gradient in the Georgia Piedmont, US. Riparian plant diversity, structure, and composition were related to landscape metrics and land use. Species richness was negatively associated with impervious surfaces and landscape diversity, and positively associated with forest cover and largest forest patch index. Shannon species diversity was strongly related to the biomass of non-native species, especially for the regeneration layer. Urban sites were characterized by high richness of non-native and pioneer species. Developing sites were dominated by the non-native shrub, Ligustrum sinense Lour., and several native overstory trees, mainly Acer negundo L. While agricultural and managed forest sites were composed of ubiquitous species, unmanaged forest sites had a structurally distinct midstory indicative of reduced disturbance. Urban and agricultural land uses showed decreased native stem densities and signs of overstory tree regeneration failure. Results from this study highlight the impact of the surrounding landscape matrix upon riparian forest plant diversity and structure.
23362491|The production of secondary metabolites and biomass of plants may be altered by coexistence and competition. Rice has coexisted with barnyardgrass in paddy systems for centuries and represents a model system for understanding plantplant interactions. Despite increasing knowledge of allelochemicals produced and released by rice involved in coexistence of these two species, relatively little is known about the role and production of beneficial chemicals of rice in response to competing barnyardgrass. The purpose of this study was to quantify the growth-stimulating allantoin (5-ureidohydantoin) and its effect on barnyardgrass growth in a ricebarnyardgrass system. In this system, rice produced and released allantoin but barnyardgrass did not. The production of allantoin by rice responded to competition from barnyardgrass, and its concentration varied among rice cultivars tested. At 1:1 barnyardgrass and rice mixture proportion, allantoin concentration in allelopathic cultivars was obviously lowered by competing barnyardgrass, while no significant variation of allantoin concentration was observed in non-allelopathic cultivars. Barnyardgrass biomass was reduced in mixed-culture with rice cultivars, in particular, allelopathic cultivars. There was a positive relationship between allantoin concentration in rice cultivars and barnyardgrass biomass. Furthermore, allantoin stimulated the growth of barnyardgrass once released from rice or added to soil. The results suggest that rice plants of allelopathic cultivars appear to be able to detect the presence of competing barnyardgrass and respond by decreasing production of growth-stimulating allantoin, regulating the growth of barnyardgrass. In this manner, given rice cultivars may alleviate the competition of barnyardgrass and provide greater benefit to their own growth.
40540354|An understanding of the relationships between spatial heterogeneity and disturbance regime is important for establishing the mechanisms necessary to maintain biodiversity. Our objective was to examine how the configuration of disturbance by burrowing rodents (Siberian marmot) affected the spatial heterogeneity of vegetation and soil nutrient properties. We established three 2500-m 2 (50 m  50 m) isolated-burrows plots and three 2500-m 2 clustered-burrows plots in a Mongolian grassland. Each plot was subdivided into 4-m 2 quadrats, and the plant species richness, percent coverage, and soil nutrient properties in the quadrats were surveyed. Spatial heterogeneity was calculated for vegetation using the mean dissimilarity of species composition among sample quadrats, and geostatistical analysis was used to calculate soil properties. Heterogeneous patches of plants such as Achnatherum splendens and higher nutrient concentrations were found only near the clustered burrows. As a result, spatial heterogeneities of vegetation and soil nutrient properties were higher in the clustered colony than those in the isolated colony. The configuration of disturbance patches affected the spatial heterogeneity at the landscape level through the spatial pattern of disturbance frequency.
41686801|The effect of non-reproductive trees and saplings as a physical barrier to pollen dispersal in wind-pollinated species' forests has not received enough attention in the literature so far. The neighborhood seedling model was used to fit pollen dispersal models for beech at different stages of gap recolonization and to elucidate the effect of saplings as a physical barrier on pollen dispersal at local scale. Phenological overlap of leaf emergence, and pollen release as well as wind directionality patterns were also examined. As a case study, we used a mixed beech-oak forest that was managed as open woodland until 1974. The ban on entry of cattle has led to the recolonization of empty spaces by seedlings and saplings of beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) and two oak species (Quercus petraea (Matts.) Liebl. and Q. pyrenaica Willd.) and, at last, to canopy closure. The average pollen dispersal distance for the first plants that regenerated in the gaps was almost twice those found for recently installed seedlings and seeds collected in traps, supporting the hypothesis that the understory may act as a physical barrier to pollen dispersal. Although a substantial part of effective pollination directionality is at random, horizontal winds and vertical anabatic winds may explain some of this directionality. At the time of beech pollen release, leaves of beech and sessile oak are fully developed, enhancing pollen interception by the saplings. Explicit models of pollen dispersal for wind-pollinated trees should incorporate the effect of canopy closure caused by growth of saplings and account for leaf phenology of co-occurring species in the forest.
23362473|The germination and early survival of tree seedlings is a critical process for the understanding of treeline dynamics with ongoing climate change. Here we analyzed the performance of 04 year-old seedlings of seven tree species at three sites above and below the current altitudinal treeline in the Swiss Central Alps near Davos. Starting from sown seeds, we monitored the seedling performance as proportions of living seedlings, seedling shoot height growth, and biomass allocation over 4 years to examine changes along an elevational gradient. We evaluated the relative importance of the environmental factors soil temperature, light conditions, water use efficiency, and nitrogen availability on seedling performance. During the 4 years, the proportions of living seedlings differed only slightly along the elevational gradient even in species currently occurring at lower elevations. Microsite-specific soil temperature and light availability had only little effect on the proportion of living seedlings and seedling biomass across the elevational gradient. Conversely, seedling biomass and biomass allocation correlated well with the foliar stable nitrogen isotope abundance ( 15 N) that was used as an indicator for nitrogen availability. Collectively, our results suggested that the early establishment of seedlings of a variety of tree species in the treeline ecotone was not limited by current climatic conditions even beyond the species' actual upper distribution limit. Nitrogen dynamics appeared to be an important environmental co-driver for biomass production and allocation in very young tree seedlings.
20051018|The variation within the Melaleuca quinquenervia dominated forested wetlands of the Moreton Region of South-East Queensland (Australia) was analysed in each of four vegetation 'segments' (stems, and canopy, shrub, and ground layers) in order to relate this variation to environmental attributes. Thirty sites were chosen for examination. Vegetation variables assessed include the species composition of stems, their diameters, number, and average height and the foliage projective cover of each species in the tree, shrub, and ground layers. Environmental variables assessed include landform, soil texture, ground and surface water levels, soil conductivity, soil pH, soil carbon content, and fire incidence. Data were analysed using semi-strong hybrid multidimensional scaling and the unweighted pair-groups method using arithmetic averages (UPGMA) classification method, supplemented by principal axis correlations and Monte Carlo methods to assign significance of correlations. Association matrices were correlated with one another using the Pearson correlation coefficient and subjected to a Mantel permutation (k = 1000) to obtain a degree of significance of the correlation. The descriptions and analyses presented show that there is considerable variation in the species composition and structure of M. quinquenervia dominated forested wetlands of the Moreton Region. However, the variation in one vegetation segment is a relatively poor indicator for the variation in another segment, as shown by the poor fidelities of vegetation Groups towards one another and the low correlations between the covariance matrices. In terms of species composition and quantities, the greatest predictive power exists between the composition of the canopy layer foliage and the composition of stems. The ground layer had the strongest correlations with environmental variables, largely due to relatively high species diversity. It suggests that the characteristics of the ground layer could suitably be used as indicators of wetland functioning. It also implies that though the assessment of ground layer vegetation is more expensive and difficult to undertake than canopy layer assessments, in order to understand how the landscape functions, how to manage it, and how to take advantage of the useful features of the landscape, it is clearly necessary to collect and analyse those data.
20050649|Phytophthora cinnamomi (cinnamon fungus) is a pathogenic soil fungus which infects plant communities such as open forests, woodlands and heathlands in the south-eastern and south-western corners of Australia, leading to devastating effects upon both structural and floristic features of these plant communities. This study undertaken in open forest in the Brisbane Ranges, south-eastern Australia, sought to characterize two study areas using visual classification and several ordination techniques. Additionally, sites were examined for differences in vegetation composition relating to P. cinnamomi infection, and how these may relate to site habitat quality for resident fauna. This characterization had a high degree of conformity (90% to 96%) between the original visual classification and several ordination methods used. Differences in the cover of understorey vegetation including both low and tall shrubs, and the grass-tree Xanthorrhoea australis were recorded between uninfected and post-infected sites, however the cover of litter or bare ground did not infer infection status. There were no consistent significant differences in projective crown cover of Eucalyptus spp. between uninfected and infected sites, nor in the number of hollows suitable for den or nest sites for arboreal mammals and birds. Hence, the impact of P. cinnamomi upon faunal habitat quality at the sites was considered more likely to related to changes in ground level vegetation structure than to effects of the pathogen on the dominant Eucalyptus species. Based on the small proportion of sites with detectable isolates of the pathogen (25%), and the slow rate of movement of the disease front during this study (1 to 5 m/3 yr), the current state of disease progression appeared relatively quiescent compared to infestations previously documented in the same area a decade or two earlier.
20146411|Researchers have long been interested in the scale-dependence of ecological processes and, more recently, in the precise scale at which a process operates. Plant regeneration studies have also been interested in scale questions, but have not studied either several regeneration mechanisms at once or the exact scales they work at. To address these issues, I set out 256 seeds for each of four species in each of two 16  16 cell plastic grids placed on a 1 year old Coffee plantation and on a 4 year old pasture, both in Puerto Rico. I found that seed predation was the dominant mechanism (50%-75% losses among species) of seed mortality compared to seed disease (20%-45% losses); while germination accounted for 15%-35% of the seed. In general, species responded individualistically with no clear trends within coffee or pasture. I next used Ripleys K-function to investigate spatial-dependency over spatial scales ranging from 2 cm to 20 cm for each seed mechanism, each species and within each field type. Again the most recurrent patterns came from taking the seed mechanisms separately, compared to species or field type trends. I found that (1) seed predation clumped at scales of 2 cm to 11 cm, (2) clumping for seed disease was rare and scattered among scales, and (3) seeds germinated in a clumped pattern at scales of 11 cm to 23 cm. These results reflect the behavior of seed predators, and may also mimic the size of sun flecks, in disturbed areas of Puerto Rico. Finally, I discuss their implications for old-field microsite preferences, safe sites and patch dynamics.
20050984|We used the patch arid land simulator (PALS-FT) -- a simple, mechanistic ecosystem model -- to explore long-term variation in evapotranspiration (ET) as a function of variability in rainfall and plant functional type (FT) at a warm desert site in southern New Mexico. PALS-FT predicts soil evaporation and plant transpiration of a canopy composed of five principal plant FTs: annuals, perennial forbs, C grasses, sub-shrubs, and evergreen shrubs. For each FT, the fractional contribution to transpiration depends upon phenological activity and cover as well as daily leaf stomatal conductance, which is a function of plant water potential, calculated from root-weighted soil water potential in six soil layers. Simulations of water loss from two plant community types (grass- vs. shrub-dominated) were carried out for the Jornada Basin, New Mexico, using 100 years of daily precipitation data (1891-1990). In order to emphasize variability associated with rainfall and fundamental differences in FT composition between communities, the seasonal patterns cover of perennials were held constant from year to year. Because the relative amount of year to year cover of winter and summer annual species is highly variable in this ecosystem, we examined their influence on model predictions of ET by allowing their cover to be variable, fixed, or absent. Over the entire 100-yr period, total annual ET is highly correlated with total annual rainfall in both community types, although T and E alone are less strongly correlated with rainfall, and variation in transpiration is nearly 3 times greater than evaporation and 2 times greater than variation in rainfall (CV of rainfall = 35%). Water use shows a relatively high similarity between the grass- and shrub-dominated communities, with a 100-yr average T/ET of 34% for both communities. However, based on a year-by-year comparison between communities, T/ET was significantly greater in the grass-dominated community, reflecting the fact that over the long term more than half of the rain occurs in the summer and is used slightly more efficiently (T&gtE) by the C-grass community than the shrub community, although we found some rainfall patterns that resulted in much greater T/ET in the shrub community in a given year. Percent of water lost as transpiration (T/ET) suggests that while there is a general trend toward increased T/ET with rainfall in both community types, T/ET is extremely variable over the 100-yr simulation, especially for normal and below normal amounts of rainfall (T/ET values range from 1 to 58% for the grass-dominated site and 6 to 60% for the shrub-dominated site). These predictions suggest that because of the relatively shallow distribution of soil water, there is little opportunity for vertical partitioning of the soil water resource by differential rooting depths of the plant FTs, in contrast to the two-layer hypothesis of Walter (1971). However, functional types may avoid competition by keying on particular 'windows' of moisture availability via differences in phenologies. We found very little differences in average, long-term model predictions of T, E, and ET when annual plant cover was variable, fixed, or absent. The results of our simulations help reconcile some of the disparate conclusions drawn from experimental studies about the relative contribution of transpiration vs. evaporation to total evapotranspiration, primarily by revealing the great year-to-year variability that is possible.
41508668|Over the past century there has been a global trend towards tree expansion and densification in rangelands and savannas. This phenomenon is commonly referred to as bush encroachment. In South Africa Acacia karroo is one of the key species responsible for bush encroachment. It has been suggested that the combination of fire and browsing might limit bush encroachment by A. karroo more effectively than either browsing or fire alone. We hypothesized that these repeated disturbances progressively deplete root carbohydrates and compromise resprouting ability. This was tested by burning and then manually defoliating A. karroo once a month for 1 year. Manual defoliation did not inhibit the rapid shoot elongation after topkill of A. karroo saplings. During this initial phase, the growth of the new shoots of A. karroo was dependent more on mobilised root reserves than on photoassimilates from the new shoots. Frequent manual defoliation of resprouting A. karroo saplings prevented the replenishment of starch reserves. We suggest a mechanism for how the interaction of browsing and fire can suppress and perhaps reverse bush encroachment in African savannas. Saplings that have reduced starch reserves at the end of dry season due to browsing will struggle to resprout if they are burnt. Even if they do not die, they will be less able to escape fire damage in the next fire than if they had been able to resprout unimpeded.
20050551|Width is an essential element of the spatial configuration of riparian forests and may be fundamental in determining their corridor function. In the present study we tested the effect of forest width on floristic structure (tree species composition and diversity) in 15 fragments of riparian forest in an agricultural fragmented landscape of SE Brazil. All these fragments were chosen in a geomorphological homogeneous river reach under similar soil, topographic and human disturbance conditions in order to minimize the influence of these factors. The forest widths considered ranged from 30 to 650 m. The results showed that total species richness and climax species richness were significantly greater when we consider larger fragments, as has been observed in other studies. Nevertheless, species diversity and evenness were not significantly correlated with forest width. The analysis of species composition showed that the narrowest fragments were characterized by species well adapted to temporary flood conditions, while medium and wide fragments showed a composition typical of drier upland areas. Therefore, the effect of forest width on floristic structure appears to be more strongly linked to the effect of river floods in the case of the fragments studied. The existence in riparian corridors of a drier forest, in general richer and more diversified than the annually flooded forest, seems to favor the maintenance of regional species diversity in fragmented landscapes.
40212965|Mount Cameroon is an active volcano in a wet part of West Africa. The forest vegetation and associated soils on its southern slopes were studied in 1989, 1991 and 1995 in coupled 0.25 ha plots at altitudes of 180, 600, 1,100, 1,800 and 2,180 m. All lianas and trees > 10 cm dbh were enumerated and their structural features quantified. The forests were of large stature throughout. The strangling Schefflera species made a substantial contribution to the very high basal areas at 1,800 m. The associated soils were dominated by andisols derived from volcanic ash that showed a distinct increase with altitude in soil organic matter and total N attributed to lower temperatures. Soil pH, exchangeable K , Ca , Mg, effective cation-exchange capacity and percentage base saturation showed very marked increases explained by the influence of recent volcanic ashfalls. Available N and P showed less distinct trends with altitude. Although there is a large decrease in tree species richness with altitude, forest stand growth (as compared on a basal area basis) does not appear to be limited by soil fertility or temperature. The forest line (altitude treeline and extensive gaps below it) appear to be controlled by periodic volcanic activity, ashfalls and lava flows, which can destroy existing forest through soil burial and fire effects and inhibit regrowth on bare lava flows and deep deposits of volcanic ash.
20146711|Secondary succession was documented throughout a long-term study of two abandoned hay fields in south-eastern Ontario. In one field (Field 1), eighteen plots (measuring 100 m) were established. Nine of these plots were ploughed to bare ground and nine remained in their original abandoned state. A third set of nine plots were established in a second field (Field 2), which had been abandoned 5 years earlier. Detailed surveys of the plant flora were conducted twice yearly, insect sweep data were collected bi-monthly, from 1976-1988, 1995 and 1998. Soil and climate data were collected and community patterns analyzed against these variables and field treatment (ploughing). While the vegetation in all plots began predominantly as a grass mixture, only a few exhibited the typical secondary succession pathway for this region. The remaining plots persist at various stages of succession, with some still in the early stages. Succession stage, as quantified by a succession ratio, varied across these plots largely by soil moisture, and to a lesser degree by field treatment (ploughing). When grouped by soil moisture, wet plots had lower ratios (characterized by later species and trees), than dry plots (characterized by early or grass species). Species richness was highest in plots that were wet, regardless of field treatment. Partial CC analysis using CANOCO of plant species versus field treatment, soil moisture and insect outbreak determined their contribution to the plant variation observed. It is generally accepted that plots over time, regardless of initial composition, will converge to become similar. Convergence of our plots, grouped according to soil moisture, did not occur. Analyses of insect outbreaks against changes in the succession ratio over time provide some evidence that herbivory can influence the likelihood of plots to converge.
20050934|This study documents the status of forest vegetation in the karst region of Los Haitises National Park, Dominican Republic, following the abandonment of pastures ( 5 years), young ( 5 years) 'conucos' (mixed plantings), old (7-30 years) conucos, and cacao plantations (&gt 25 years). We compared these sites to vegetation characteristics of patches of forest in karst valleys ('old forest'--too old to know their exact land use) and on mogote tops with no recent history of human disturbance. The youngest sites date to when squatters were removed from Los Haitises National Park. Forest structure (density, basal area, and species richness of woody plants  1 cm DBH) were all significantly affected by land use. Density was highest in intermediate-aged valley sites (old conucos) and mogote tops, while both basal area and species richness tended to increase with age of abandonment. Although cacao plantations had been abandoned for more than 25 years the species diversity was low, due to continued regeneration of this persistent crop. Abandoned pastures had the greatest nonwoody biomass and were dominated by the fern Nephrolepis multiflora which had completely replaced pasture grasses. An ordination of the woody plant communities separated the mogote tops from valleys, emphasizing the strong control that topography has on the forest community in moist and wet tropical forests on karst substrates. Valley sites were arranged in the ordination in order of their age, suggesting a successional sequence converging on the composition of the 'old forest' sites.
40305787|Plant litter may play an important role in herbaceous plant communities by limiting primary production and influencing plant species richness. However, it is not known how the effect of litter interacts with fertilization. We tested for the role of litter and fertilization in a large-scale experiment to investigate effects on diversity and biomass of plant species, growth forms, native vs. non-native groups, and abiotic ecosystem components (e.g., soil moisture, PAR). We manipulated plant litter (removed vs. left in situ) and nutrient availability (NPK-fertilized vs. unfertilized) for 4 years in 314-m plots, replicated six times, in an old-field grassland. While many of our species-level results supported previously published studies and theory, our plant group results generally did not. Specifically, grass species richness and forb biomass was not affected by either fertilization or plant litter. Moreover, plant litter removal significantly increased non-native plant species richness. Relative to native plant species, all of our experimental manipulations significantly increased both the biomass and the species richness of non- native plant species. Thus, this grassland system was sensitive to management treatments through the facilitation of non-native plant species. We coupled biotic and abiotic components within a nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) analysis to investigate treatment effects, which revealed that specific treatments altered ecosystem development. These results suggest that fertilization and plant litter may have larger impacts on plant communities and on ecosystem properties than previously understood, underscoring the need for larger-scale and longerterm experiments.
23267448|Native species richness is often significantly correlated with exotic species richness, but the direction and strength of this so-called native-exotic richness relationship (NERR) differs among studies. Furthermore, the potential influence of biotic and abiotic co-variates is less commonly considered. Our objectives were to determine (i) how two different components of scale, grain, and extent, influence the NERR, and (ii) if and how biotic and abiotic variables moderate the NERR. We addressed these objectives using data collected at 37 sites within the endangered Purshia tridentata Pursh (DC) (antelope-brush) shrub-steppe grasslands in southern British Columbia, Canada We found a significantly positive NERR at our finest grain (1 m 2 ), but no significant NERR at any of the three broader grains (10, 100, and 1,000 m 2 ). Changing the extent of analysis did not affect the NERR. A multi-model inference approach revealed, at fine grains, (i) strong support for native species richness as a positive predictor of exotic species richness, (ii) Bromus tectorum L. (cheatgrass) as an important negative predictor of native species richness, (iii) foliar cover of P. tridentata as an important positive predictor of exotic species cover, and (iv) a limited predictive role for soil properties. We speculate that spatial patterning in the importance of facilitation relative to competition could influence the NERR within semi-arid ecosystems such as ours. Last, to facilitate comparative research and metaanalyses, we highlight the need for future research to be more explicit in its description of scale, and to more clearly define the grain and extent of each analysis.
20050736|The effects of removal of live plants and litter (using herbicide, clipping, and raking) on seedling establishment were examined in Utricularia juncea (bladderwort), an annual carnivorous plant of low frequency in wet, nutrient-poor pine savannas of the southeastern United States. In addition, the spatial distribution of this species in relation to crayfish disturbances was determined. The creation of competition-free gaps in the groundcover canopy in May 1996 (using herbicide) promoted establishment of this species at two sites by September 1997. Standing dead and litter left in herbicide-treated plots inhibited establishment. Density was near zero in undisturbed plots. Natural occurrences of this species were associated with crayfish mounds, which bury plant litter as they erode and increase in area. These results suggest that Utricularia juncea is a fugitive species that depends on disturbances or litter-free microsites to become established in wet, nutrient-poor seepage savannas in southern Mississippi. It is hypothesized that the production of carnivorous traps combined with relatively high allocation to reproductive structures (&gt90%) and the production of a persistent seed bank make it well-adapted to nutrient-poor and disturbed habitats.
20050901|Tropical dry forests have been reduced to less than 0.1% of their original expanse on the Pacific side of Central America and are considered by some to be the most endangered ecosystem in the lowland tropics. Plots 1000 m were established in seven tropical dry forests in Costa Rica and Nicaragua in order to compare levels of species richness to other Neotropical dry forest sites and to identify environmental variables associated with species richness and abundance. A total of 204 species and 1484 individuals  2.5 cm were encountered. Santa Rosa National Park was the richest site with the highest family (33), genera (69), and species (75) diversity of all sites. Species richness and forest structure were significantly different between sites. Fabaceae was the dominant tree and shrub family at most sites, but no species was repeatably dominant based on number of stems in all fragments of tropical dry forest. Central American dry forests had similar species richness when compared to other Neotropical forests. There was no correlation between forest cover within reserves, or precipitation and plant species richness. There was a significant correlation between anthropogenic disturbance (intensity and frequency of fire, wood collection, grazing) and total species richness, tree and shrub species richness, and liana abundance. These results suggest controlling levels on anthropogenic disturbance within reserves should be a high priority for resource managers in Central America. Further research in forest fragments which examine individual and a combination of disturbance agents would help clarify the importance of anthropogenic disturbance on species richness and abundance.
23500328|The seed germination niche partly determines adaptation, ecological breadth and geographic range in plant species. In temperate wetlands, environmental temperature is the chief regulator of germination timing, but the ecological significance of high and low temperatures during dormancy break and germination is still poorly understood. Our aim was to characterize the temperature dimension of the germination niche in mountain base-rich fens, determining (1) the effect of different temperatures on dormancy break and germination, and (2) whether different germination strategies may be identified at the species level. We conducted laboratory germination experiments with seeds of 15 species from these habitats, collected in 18 fen sites in the Cantabrian Mountains (Spain) for two consecutive years. In all the species, the seeds were totally or conditionally dormant at dispersal and stratification produced a significant increase of germination. In most cases, there was not an obligatory requirement for cold temperatures during dormancy break, since warm stratification promoted germination as well. Although the optimal germination thermoperiod was generally high (30/20 C), most species could also germinate at lower temperatures after cold-stratification. We also identified a group of species associated to cold-water springs that germinated only at low temperatures. Our results demonstrate that dormancy break in mountain base-rich fens does not obligatorily depend on cold temperatures during overwintering. Furthermore, germination at cool temperatures may be more widespread in wetland habitats than previously thought. The existence of two distinctive germination strategies, 'warm' and 'cool', can potentially give rise to divergent species responses to climate change.
40212918|One of the most important areas in ecology is to elucidate the factors that drive succession in ecosystems. The purpose of our study was to assess the effects of legume species (Medicago sativa, Melilotus suaveolens and Astragalus adsurgens) introduction to abandoned arable land on Vegetation development in the Loess Plateau, China. Results from our study showed that addition of legume species strongly affected the composition of recently abandonedfield Vegetation. Legume species were effective at reducing the number and dominance of natural colonizers (mainly weeds from the seed bank). The introduction of legume species into newly abandoned fields maintained high total cover and above-ground biomass and could improve soil organic carbon and total nitrogen. However, the effects of the treatments were species-specific. Melilotus suaveolens turned out to be severely suppressive to natural colonizers (weed species). Also, Melilotus suaveolens-adding maintained the highest cover and above-ground biomass and was helpful to improve later succession species, e.g. Stipa breviflora and Astragalus polycladus, to invade and establish. Medicago sativa-adding was superior in enhancing the soil organic carbon and total nitrogen. The present results suggested that addition of legume species with greater cover and biomass strongly suppressed the dominance of the weedy species in early succession and the course of old-field succession may be accelerated by introduction of legume species at least temporarily. However, the experimental period was too short to assess to what extent succession may be affected in the longer term.
20051125|Despite the widespread distribution and common habitat dominance of clonal plant species the mechanisms for their ecological success often remain uncertain. Allium ampeloprasum var. babingtonii is a sterile plant that reproduces with physiologically independent asexual propagules. The variety is found mainly in the S.W. of England over a wide habitat range including sea cliffs and open woodlands and displays an autumn-spring phenology in common with its close Mediterranean relatives. The role of population genetic structure in the remarkable habitat distribution of the variety is not known. Genetic variation in A. ampeloprasum var. babingtonii was analysed using RAPD markers in single individuals of var. babingtonii from 16 distinct populations and five further individuals from a single population. This analysis revealed no polymorphism suggesting that all sampled individuals are part of a single clone. We offer the conjecture that in the absence of genetic variation an ecological release, due to temporal separation from competing species, may contribute to the ability of var. babingtonii to exploit heterogeneous environmental conditions.
20050576|Classification and ordination techniques based in fuzzy set theory are now being commonly used in vegetation studies. However, several problems have been detected in spite of the significant theoretical advantages of the theory. In this paper we have improved the interpretability of fuzzy partitions by combining fuzzy partitions with correspondence analysis (CA) and detrended canonical correspondence analysis (DCCA) in an analysis of the beech forests of Basque Country, northern Spain. Our results seem to overcome difficulties in the interpretation of multi-group partitions.
20050692|Dry seeds of Leucadendron laureolum (Lam.) Fourc. (Proteaceae) were exposed for different intervals (range: 7 to 84 days) to visible, UV-A and UV-B radiation of different biologically effective dose (range: 0 to 11.43 kJ
20051019|Hummingbird-pollinated flowers are frequently subjected to nectar robbing. In this paper, I examine the impact of nectar robbing on plant reproductive success on a hummingbird-pollinated species. After studying the basic aspects of the floral morphology and reproduction of Macleania bullata (Ericaceae) in a tropical montane wet forest in southwest Colombia, I examined the percent of flowers robbed and the effect of nectar robbery on fruit set. The flowers of this species are typical for plants pollinated by long-bill hummingbirds. They are protandrous and open for four days. Fruit production requires a pollinator visit; fruit set following pollinator exclusion was zero. Fruit set following xenogamous pollen transfer (36.8%) differed significantly from that of population controls (11.9%) and of autogamous pollen transfer (6.3%). Nectar volume, sugar concentration and sugar production were measured at daily intervals from bud opening until the fading of flowers. Daily nectar production (both volume and amount of sugar) varied considerably with flower age. Sugar production peaked on the second day, coinciding with the male phase. The frequency of nectar robbing in the studied population was very high (75% of examined flowers) and was positively correlated with reduced fruit set. I discuss the probability of a relation between reduced fruit set on robbed flowers and an energetic investment. Robbing by non-pollinating visitors can suppose the plant to re-synthesize more nectar. The high incidence of nectar robbing impugns the advantage of specialization.
40305549|Invasion of unsown species to artificially created assemblages of grassland species was investigated in a 3-year field experiment. In the experiment, assemblages varying in species richness (1,2,4,8, and 16 species) and functional group richness (14, grasses, legumes, rosette forbs, and creeping forbs) were grown in control and fertilized plots, without any attempt to prevent the invasion of unsown species or to weed them. The relationship between species and functional group diversity and above-ground biomass was positive for sown species in all study years (2003, 2004 and 2005). In the latter 2 years, weed invader biomass decreased significantly with increasing biomass of sown species and their functional group richness, but not with number of species. However, no suppressive effect of species or functional group richness beyond that by increased biomass of residents was found. In fact, slight but significant positive partial effect of species richness was found, suggesting that the negative effect of the same amount of resident biomass on invaders is stronger when the biomass is composed of fewer species. The negative relationship between the number of functional groups of residents and invader biomass suggested that better coverage of functional trait space could be a mechanism promoting the resistance to invasion. In Addition, species composition of invaders were significantly related to initial composition of sown residents.
20147011|In the Mediterranean Basin, landscape patterns are strongly human-modified. In recent decades, because of industrialisation and rural exodus, many fields have been abandoned, generating changes in the landscape pattern. In this framework, I aim to study the effect of landscape pattern on landscape dynamic processes in the Mediterranean Basin using simulation models and considering that fire may interact with landscape pattern. First I generate a gradient of five artificial random landscapes. In each landscape I include four species types growing in the Mediterranean Basin, each type with different plant traits (Quercus, Pinus, Erica and Cistus types). In each landscape scenario, each species covers 30% of the landscape but with a different spatial distribution, from the coarsest-grained (L1) to the finest-grained (L5). Then, the dynamics of each of these five landscapes were simulated for 100 years using the Fateland simulation model. Simulations were run with six fire regime scenarios in each landscape scenario (no fire, mean fire interval of 80, 40, 20, 10 and 5 years). Landscape attributes were computed for the initial and the final landscapes. As expected, the results suggest that, as expected, some species increase and others decrease depending on the fire regime. However, the results also show that different landscape structures produce different dynamics and thus that there is a clear interaction between landscape pattern and fire regime. For instance, coarse-grained spatial patterns generate slower dynamics than fine-grained patterns, and fire-sensitive species are maintained longer under coarse-grained patterns (i.e., fragmentation accelerates extinction of fire-sensitive species).
40305731|We modelled the effect of habitat heterogeneity on the abundance of the submediterranean Saponaria bellidifolia, a red list species in Romania. The study was designed at two scales: 100 and 0.5 m. At larger scale, generalized additive models and canonical correspondence analysis were used to model the density of ramets, whereas at microscale, binomial logistic regression was employed to model the species' occurrence. S. bellidifolia abundance responded sensitively to habitat type (classified as "grassy", "rocky" and "scree"), rather than to microclimatic variables. At both scales, habitat type was the best predictor of ramet abundance, followed by slope and vegetation cover. At 0.5 m, soil depth was also a good predictor of species occurrence. The data revealed that screes are the most suitable habitats for hosting relatively large populations of this rare species, because of occasional natural disturbances and presumably lower interspecific competition.
20146874|Since cacti have very small surface/volume ratios, the amount of light they intercept is limited, and so is photosynthesis. However, many cacti shade themselves by means of dense hairy mats, called cephalia, which protect the floral buds. There is a trade-off between allocating a surface to photosynthesis or to the protection of reproductive structures. We found that proportion of the stem covered by cephalium affected fitness in the columnar cactus Lophocereus schottii. Too little cephalium holds few floral buds while too much reduces fecundity -- probably through diminished photosynthesis -- with an intermediate amount maximising reproduction. The optimal proportion of cephalium becomes smaller as the plant grows, probably because self-shading by new branches causes a further reduction in light interception. Smaller plants had significantly less cephalium than the optimal amount to maximise current reproduction. Since the largest individuals produced more reproductive structures, small cacti may find it more profitable to grow fast to achieve a large fecundity, than to assign resources to immediate reproduction via cephalium development.
41412356|The response and adaption mechanisms of seedlings under long-term warming have remained largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the effects of wanning for 6 years on growth, and needle carbon, nitrogen, chlorophyll, and carbohydrate levels in a coniferous tree species, Abies faxoniana. Seedlings were grown in even-aged monospecific stands under ambient and warming (ambient + 2.2C) temperature in climate control chambers. Warming caused statistically significant increases in the specific leaf area, leaf area ratio, root biomass, leaf biomass, branch biomass, stem biomass, and total mass of the seedlings, and reduced the root/shoot ratio. Warming also increased total chlorophyll concentrations, specific chlorophyll pigments, and Chlorophyll alb ratios in both studied needle age classes. In addition, C/N ratios of current-year and 1-year-old needles increased by warming. In contrast, warming decreased the levels of N, sugar, cellulose, and starch in needles, while warming had no effect on the height, stem diameter, needle mass ratio, root mass ratio, and root/needle ratio. We conclude that warming increases branch growth and changes needle chemistry, which enhances the light capture potential of seedlings.
40606946|Resource availability is an important factor affecting the capacity of compensatory growth after grazing. We performed a greenhouse experiment with Poa bulbosa, a small perennial grass of the Mediterranean and Central Asian grasslands, to test the importance of nutrient availability for compensatory growth after clipping. We also compared the results with predictions of the limited resource model (LRM). Plants were grown at low and high fertilization levels and subjected to a clipping treatment. Contrary to the LMR, we found that in Poa plants compensatory growth occurred under the high fertilization level, while it did not occur under the low level. The LMR predicts a higher tolerance for grazing in the stressful environment. Our plants showed a significant decrease in their relative growth rates (RGR) after clipping. Although the plants allocated a 32-188% greater fraction of the mass to lamina growth after clipping, this greater allocation to the leaves did not fully compensate for the initial reduction in leaf area ratio (LAR). A sensitivity analysis showed for the clipped plants under the high fertilization treatment, that changes in leaf allocation (f lam ) enabled the plants to compensate for a part of the potential loss caused by defoliation. Probably, the increased biomass allocation comes largely from the bulbs. We conclude that the inconsistency of the LRM with our results originates in the lack of compensatory mechanisms in the model. To better understand how environmental conditions affect tolerance to herbivory, the effects of compensatory growth should be taken into account.
20050737|Gap characteristics and gap phase replacement of major tree species were examined in two primary old-growth (mean DBHs of the canopy trees were 45.2 and 56.1 cm) and four secondary developing (range of mean DBH of the canopy trees was 23.5-39.9 cm) beech (Fagus crenata) stands in the Daisen Forest Reserve, southwestern Japan, and these were analyzed in relation to stand development as expressed by the difference of mean DBH of canopy trees. Percentage gap area (percentage of total gap area to total surveyed area) and mean and maximum gap size varied widely and ranged from 1.7 to 20.0%, from 19.4 to 162.8 m, and from 35.7 to 585.1 m, respectively. Mean percentage gap area and mean gap size were significantly greater in old-growth than in developing stands. However, they and maximum gap size might not increase linearly with stand development, and the gap feature of less developed stands was greater than that of later stages in developing stands. The cause was a higher formation rate, in younger developing stands, of gaps formed by simultaneous death (multiple trees falling down in domino fashion) which tends to produce larger gaps. In developing stands mean DBH of gapmakers (canopy trees that formed a gap) was smaller than that of canopy trees, though the inverse trend might be found in old-growth stands. Three typical types of death or injury states of gapmakers such as standing dead, trunk broken and uprooted were found in every study stand and the difference in stand development may not cause stand-to-stand variations for them. Importance of F. crenata (the most dominant species) in the canopy layer increased and its importance in the understory layer decreased with stand development. Shade-intolerant Quercus mongolica in the canopy layer was more important in younger than in old-growth stands, and there was no Quercus regeneration in old-growth stands. Acer mono consistently appeared, though in much less abundance than other species, in both canopy and understory layers of all study stands. Sub-canopy layers, which are mainly formed by sub-canopy tree species such as Acanthopanax sciadophylloides and Acer japonicum, may gradually develop with stand development.
20050607|Reproductive traits of a lignified annual plant, Blepharis sindica were studied in relation to the formation of an 'aerial seed pool' on dead plants in an arid grassland in the Thar Desert of northwestern India. The dead plants remained standing on the soil surface and retained fruits for more than one year. Aerial seed pools developed about 6 cm above the ground. There were no seed pools on or below the ground surface. Only 5.7% of seeds died on dead plants because of insect predation or fungi infection during one year. Seed release was cued by rainfall, and a fraction of seeds on the aerial seed pools was released in each rainfall event. After 13 rainfall events during the monsoon season, 25% of seeds was still retained on the plants. Seed predation on the ground surface was intensive; all cones placed on the soil surface were removed within four days, and 97% of fruits were removed within 10 days. Fifty percent of seeds germinated within 3.5 h, and there were no differences in viability and time required for germination between first year seeds and older seeds. The results indicate that the aerial seed-holding on dead plants is an available way to avoid seed predation in harsh desert environments where seed predation is intense and favorable periods for growth are temporally limited and unpredictable.
20051260|The mangrove vegetation of a disturbed and undisturbed site in both Kenya and Sri Lanka was investigated in the field for three vegetation layers: adult trees, young trees, and juvenile trees. A minimum of 25 sample points, in which the vegetation was described and environmental factors (salinity, light intensity, land/water ratio, abundance of herbivorous crabs and snail abundance) were measured or estimated, were taken on each site. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were used to summarize the data bulk, to investigate the vegetation dynamics (e.g., comparability of species distribution in the three vegetation layers), and/or to link the vegetation data to the environmental factors. Results showed that species clusters were relatively easy to delineate, whether mangrove zonation was present or not. Among the environmental factors, the abundance of propagule predators (mostly sesarmid crabs) contributed significantly to the variation in vegetation and could be an explanatory parameter for the observed vegetation data in a majority of sites. In the site where it was not, the most important factor in the ordination was the land/water ratio, which is important at the ecological level as well (link between water level and vegetation dynamics). However, none of the environmental factors could successfully explain the total variability in the vegetation data suggesting that other, more determining factors exist. Our results further provide information on the dynamic or non-dynamic nature of a forest and on its ability to rejuvenate, and may contribute to appropriate forestry management guidelines in the future.
20146603|To better understand how rainforest regenerates after agriculture I sampled the seed rain and seed bank, and set out seeds and seedlings, on microsites defined by distance to the forest in fields both in Puerto Rico and Ecuador. I found that (1) total seeds, species richness and life-form richness were twice as great in the Ecuador seed rain compared to Puerto Rico but Puerto Rico seeds were more evenly distributed among species and (2) total seedlings from the seed bank were similar between Puerto Rico and Ecuador, (3) the majority of seeds were lost to predation among all species and study sites, (4) seed disease was absent in P. aduncum and Miconia prasina, and no seeds germinated for Gonzalagunia spicata and P. riparia, (5) in Ecuador pathogenic disease claimed more seeds than germinated for all species, and Solanum ovalifolium was the only species that had seeds germinate but did not lose seeds to disease, (6) also in Ecuador, insect predation was significantly lower in the forest border for P. aduncum, and seed disease was significantly greater at the 10 m micro site for S. ovalifolium, (7) distance has a significant effect on seedling height and basal diameter, (8) losses of leaf area due to herbivory and pathogens were always low and (9) biomass and leaf specific mass were significantly reduced in the border and forest microsites. I conclude that Ecuador fields had more seeds, species, and life-forms than Puerto Rico fields, predation was the most severe post-dispersal seed filter in all fields, seeds that survived predation on Puerto Rico were lost either to disease or germination but to both mechanisms in Ecuador, all three seed mechanisms in Ecuador fields showed distance effects of seedling growth but not survivorship.
23267482|Masting is usually considered as a population phenomenon but it results from individuals' reproductive patterns. Studies of individual patterns of seed production and their synchrony are essential to an understanding of the mechanisms of masting. The aim of this study was to find the relationship between population and individual levels of masting. We examined individuals' contribution to masting, considering their endogenous cycles, interannual variability and associated weather cues, as well as inter-individual synchrony of fruit production. We studied masting of Sorbus aucuparia L., which in Europe is one of the most common trees bearing fleshy fruits and is strongly affected by a specialized seed predator. The data are 11-year measurements of fruit production of 250 individuals distributed on a 27-ha area of subalpine forest in the Western Carpathians (Poland). Population- and individual-level interannual variability of fruit production was moderate. Synchrony among individuals was relatively high for all years, but the trees were much less synchronized in heavy crop years than in years of low fruit production. Weak synchrony among trees for heavy production years suggests that the predator satiation hypothesis does not explain the observed masting behavior. Fruit production, both at individual and at population level, was highly correlated with weather conditions. However, the presence of masting cannot be fully explained by the resource-matching hypothesis either. We suggest that adverse weather conditions effectively limit fruit production, causing high inter-individual synchrony in low crop years, whereas the unsynchronized heavy crop years seem to have been affected by individually available resources.
41429363|The questions "Will the environment surrounding moorlands become refugia for a Japanese subalpine coniferous species, Abies mariesii Mast., after climate change?" and "How does the spatial resolution of a species distribution model affect the global warming predictions?" have been discussed in this study. This study was conducted at Hakkoda Mountains, the northern side of Honshu Island, Japan. We constructed 50-m mesh model using a climate variable, two topography variables and two variables relating to moorlands. We applied the model to eight global warming scenarios, including decreasing or nondecreasing scenarios of moorlands. We also constructed a coarse-resolution model at approximately 1-km resolution and compared the model predictions with the fine ones. The results showed that the coarseresolution model tended to overestimate the range of suitable habitats for A. mariesii. On the other hand, some suitable habitats around moorlands could only be predicted by the fine-resolution model. The fineresolution model indicated that the peripheries of the moorlands are the most important potential refugia for A. mariesii on Hakkoda Mountains. Although these suitable areas were notable in the +2C scenario, all suitable habitats completely disappeared in the + 4C scenario. We concluded that it would be effective to conserve the A. mariesii populations around moorlands which are likely to persist after global warming, as well as moorlands themselves. This assessment could only be achieved by fine-resolution models that incorporate non-climatic variables including topography and moorland-related variables with climatic variables. In contrast, a coarse-resolution model overestimated the suitable habitats whilst underestimating potential local refugia. Thus, fine-resolution models are more effective for developing practical adaptation of conservation measures.
20051171|Ten sporophytic populations of Syntrichia caninervis contained an average of 22 individuals
20050459|Phyllostachys pubescens Mazel ex Houzeau de Lehaie is one of the largest bamboo species with a leptomorph root system in the world. The species originates in China and has been naturalized in the neighboring countries. It was introduced in 1746 into Japan because of the economic value of the young sprouts and culm woods. It escaped from the planted areas and expanded by invading the original vegetation. In order to clarify the basic ecological characteristics of the species, carbon fixation and cycling were determined in a stand of Phyllostachys pubescens. The standing culm density and average DBH in 1991 were
20146396|Entomophilous species that bloom in early spring are more frequently confronted with severe pollen limitation and low fruit set than species that bloom later. On the other hand, early flowering species may benefit by escaping the peak of flower and/or seed predator activity. Previous studies have implicated unpredictable weather conditions and the inactivity of pollinator and predator insects early in spring as causes of severe pollen limitation and light predation in early flowering species. However, differences not only in flowering schedule, but also in floral morphological traits and breeding systems, could induce variations in fruit set and intensity of predation among species. Comparing two species while simultaneously observing individual flowers within species could help determine the cause of these interspecific differences. For four years, I followed the fate of individual flowers, from bud to fruit, in two Vaccinium species that bloom successively in spring and share pollinators and pre-dispersal seed predators. My predictions were as follows: (1) the early flowering species, V. hirtum, would not easily gain pollinator services because of low ambient temperature, and its fruit set would be low in comparison with the late flowering species, V. smallii; (2) the early flowering species would avoid attacks by flower and pre-dispersal seed predators via phenological escape from the predators' activity peak. Hand-pollination experiments showed both species had incomplete self-compatibility, with bumblebees required for pollination. As predicted, only the early flowering species seemed to suffer from pollen limitation. However, Studies of individual flowers suggested that pollen limitation resulted not only from pollinator limitation early in spring, but also from geitonogamy and reproductive interference between plant species. Moth and fly larvae consumed flowers and fruit, while the pre-dispersal seed predator was a weevil (Mecysmoderes sp.). Far from escaping flower and seed predation, the early flowering species suffered more severe insect attacks than the late flowering species in two years out of four. Studies of individual flowers clearly showed that flower predators' activity was not limited, even in the early weeks of the flowering season.
20050766|The capability of clonal plants to reproduce both sexually and vegetatively and their resulting hierarchical organisation into ramets and genets pose problems for the determination of fitness. We develop ramet-based measures of clonal plant fitness including both modes of reproduction. To this end we use simple population-dynamic equations accounting for limited space, limited dispersal, and disturbance. Neglecting interactions among ramets (r-selection regime) we derive an expression for initial growth rate r as a fitness measure. At higher densities interactions among ramets lead to density control (K-selection regime) and competitive exclusion of genotypes or species may occur. In this case we apply an invasibility criterion to derive an abundance fitness measure: competitiveness C. The optimum of C corresponds to an evolutionary stable strategy. C increases with the proportion of reproductive adults, with inverse module mortality, and with the sum of sexual and vegetative reproduction. The latter are defined as the product of the rate of module production and two correction factors accounting for juvenile mortality before establishment and for the efficiency of space exploitation by propagules. Thus C is equivalent to potential life-time offspring production, in contrast to realized life-time offspring production R. Because the correction factor for space exploitation cannot be expressed analytically we obtain it from complementary spatially-explicit individual-based simulations. To illustrate an application of the fitness measure C we predict optimal allocation to vegetative and sexual reproduction. In a homogeneous habitat an intermediate allocation may maximize fitness only if there is a non-linear trade-off between the modes of reproduction. However even if this trade-off is linear, spatially heterogenous disturbances can lead to an intermediate optimum of allocation because seed dispersal with subsequent vegetative spread improves the utilization of available space for recruitment if the spatial extent of single disturbances is much larger than the distance of vegetative dispersal. Thus, our study underlines the importance of spatial features for fitness measures especially of clonal plants.
40802414|Regeneration processes of riparian Robinia pseudoacacia forests after clear-cutting were investigated through dendroecological and microsatellite polymorphism analyses. Age determination of regenerated R. pseudoacacia trees based on the dendroecological analysis revealed that forests regenerating after clear-cutting were composed of trees that mostly established within a few years after clear-cutting. This suggests that the stimulus to form new shoots was evoked by clear-cutting but faded within a few years. Genet identification via the microsatellite polymorphism analysis showed that ramet trees belonging to the same genet were distributed in a cluster. Almost all trees regenerated asexually through new ramet formation on the cut stumps and residual horizontal roots after clearcutting. AMOVA with microsatellite markers showed that among-and within-population variations contributed 6 and 94% to the total variation, respectively, suggesting that R. pseudoacacia trees in the forests were initially established from seeds dispersed randomly from mother trees in a wide area.
20146437| The population dynamics of the tree, Burkea africana Hook. was assessed within six sites in a nutrient-poor broad-leaf savanna, and seed banks were assessed within three of these sites. Population size and age structure in 1978 (representing the effects of 60 years cattle farming) differed little to those in 1999 (representing 20 years of conservation management). Greatest differences were in the smaller size classes, possibly in response to increased fire intensities over the last 20 years, although both periods displayed inverse J-shaped curves, typical of strongly recruiting populations. Growth rings were used to age trees, but estimates of age are actually the age since the last resprouting event, thus underestimating total age. Bark thickness increased almost linearly with plant size up to 400 mm trunk circumference, whereafter the relationship was poor for both currently fruiting and non-fruiting plants. This appears to represent a size at which trees are sufficiently protected by their bark to become fire resistant. It is also the typical minimum size for sexual maturity (flower and pod production), suggesting that the attainment of fire resistance immediately precedes the development of sexual maturity. Even though scarring of B. africana trees by porcupines was rare, the significant relationship between scarring and fire damage and consequent tree death resulted in the creation of gaps for regeneration. Densities of small plants (&lt 1 m in height) were 363  341 plants ha for those that had resprouted (94% of total), with only 7  37 (1.7%) current and 13  43 (4.3%) previous year's seedlings ha. Similar proportions occurred subcanopy (48%) and in the open (52%). Most seeds in the soil seed bank (69%) were recently dispersed and occurred in the litter (94%), while non-current seeds (31%) occurred mainly in the soil (55%). Buried seeds had greater viability than those at the surface. Seeds were effectively dispersed to all microsites but with highest densities below parent trees. At the landscape level, seed densities were about 750 000 ha. Presently, B. africana appears to be resilient to the change in management of the reserve. 
40606977|We measured aboveground biomass allocation and resorption of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in the fronds of a winter-deciduous fern Athyrium distentifolium in ambient and N-enhanced treatments. Studies were done in the Moravian-Silesian Beskydy Mts. (Czech Republic) during 2007 and 2008. Athyrium distentifolium formed taller fronds and petioles and allocated more biomass to supporting tissue relative to photosynthetically active leaf tissue in response to N addition. Resorption of P from green fronds was more efficient than N resorption (on average 50% P, 21% N from supporting and 44% P, 24% N from photo synthetic tissues were withdrawn during senescence). The N/P-ratios were higher in photosynthetic tissue (10.8 in 2007 and 13.0 in 2008) in comparison with supporting tissue (5.5 and 7.7, respectively). In N-enhanced treatment, a positive relationship was found between the amount of supporting tissue relative to photosynthetic tissue and resorption of nutrients from photosynthetic tissue. However, higher N availability resulted in a significant decrease of N resorption efficiency in photosynthetic tissue of A. distentifolium.
23362471|The role of unpalatable plant species as biological antiherbivore refuges for palatable species is well-documented at community level particularly in harsh environments. In productive sub-humid temperate grassland subjected to domestic grazing, we examined the protective effect of Eryngium horridum on plant community structure and floristic composition, and evaluated whether these changes impacted on a number of morphological traits of grasses, related to grazing resistance. We also investigated, for a palatable grass species (Stipa neesiana) the existence of morphological differences between protected and unprotected plants and if this eventual variation was either plastic or genetic. The study consisted of a field survey where we compared paired patches, with and without E. horridum, and a greenhouse experiment where we evaluated individuals of S. neesiana coming from both patch types over a 11 months period. Patches dominated by E. horridum had lower richness and cover of forbs than patches without the forb, and similar richness but greater cover of cool-season tussock palatable grasses, which suggests a protective role on the latter. Grasses in these patches also had longer blades and sheaths and lower specific leaf area. The morphological differences of S. neesiana individuals collected from both patch types disappeared after 11 months growth in a common environment which revealed significant phenotypic plasticity in this species. These results suggest the existence of plant-to-plant facilitation in a productive ecosystem not only at community level, through changes in species richness and the promotion of palatable grasses, but also at population level, through plastic changes in aboveground morphological traits. Both facilitation and plasticity, would contribute to the persistence of threatened palatable grasses in the heavy grazed productive ecosystems.
20050633|Fluctuations in densities of woody plant species were monitored in plots within three northern Botswana woodland types subjected to elephant damage and burning. Woodlands dominated by Baikiaea plurijuga and Colophospermum mopane sustained significant changes occurring on an annual basis, whereas Acacia erioloba plots maintained a typical structure. The structure of A. erioloba woodlands appeared to be influenced by factors other than elephants and the occurrence of fire. Woodlands dominated by C. mopane plants were subjected to obtrusive elephant damage, although the densities of tall trees remained largely unchanged. The effects of fire were most prominent in B. plurijuga woodlands. Tree densities declined consistently and plants of lower height classes, such as shrubs and seedlings increased in densities in areas subjected to a high occurrence of fire.
20050892|The canopy architecture of herbaceous communities has received little attention despite its obvious relevance for how plants interact. The objective of this study was to determine how the position of species within the canopy of a species-rich grassland depends on nutrient availability, light availability, and mowing regime. To enhance the generality of the results, species were classified into four growth-form groups according to two important morphological traits -- narrow vs. wide leaves, leafy vs. leafless stem -- grasses, sedges, upright forbs and rosette forbs. Vertical structure of the canopy was examined by point quadrat sampling of 40  40 cm permanent plots, treated by fertilization, additional illumination and mowing. As expected, fertilization and cessation of mowing allowed plants to grow taller, an effect of additional illumination was not detected. The relative height of species in the canopy was related to their leaf and stem morphology -- species with narrow leaves and/or with a leafy stem were significantly taller. In addition, each growth-form group had a characteristic relative height: grasses &gt sedges &gt upright forbs &gt rosette forbs. All the experimental treatments led to a smaller number of more clearly distinguishable canopy strata with certain growth-form group(s) dominating in each. In (non-fertilized, non-illuminated and mown) control plots the dominance of grasses in the upper canopy layers was the most obvious -- the remaining plants tended to improve their vertical position with all manipulations. The two contrasting growth-form groups -- grasses and rosette forbs -- responded similarily to illumination, becoming relatively shorter with added light. Sedges and upright forbs used additional light to 'improve' their position in the canopy.
41508785|Dry tropical forest tree species show variations in leafless duration (i.e. deciduousness), stem wood density (SWD), leaf mass area (LMA) and leaf strategy index (LSI, reflecting resource use rate) to overcome water limitations. We investigated the role of these tree traits in the seasonal timing of flowering and subsequent fruiting. Flowering and fruiting time of 24 tree species was recorded over two consecutive annual cycles and their relationships with the above-mentioned tree specific traits were examined across the species. In leaf-exchanging species having higher SWD and LMA, low LSI and short deciduousness, flowering coincides with leaf transitional state when vegetative growth is at its minimum, and fruit formation and leaf flushing are both supported at the same time. However, >4-months-deciduous species with lowest SWD and LMA, higher LSI and longer deciduousness showed predominantly dry season flowering, subsequent fruiting on leafless shoots and distinct separation of vegetative and flowering phenophases. In contrast, intermediate species (<2 monthsdeciduous, 2-4-months-deciduous) showed wider flowering range through summer, rainy, autumn or winter seasons. Fruiting duration varies considerably with variation in the flowering time; ca. 5-14 months in summer flowering species; 7-12 months in rainy flowering species; 6-10 months in autumn flowering species, 4-9 months in dry season flowering and 3-7 months in winter flowering species. In most species, fruit maturation occurred just prior to the onset of rains, ensuring seedling survival. The ability of tree species to withstand (leaf-exchange) or avoid (deciduousness) drought stress and varying seasonal flowering timings appear to be the principal mechanisms for successful survival and reproduction under extremely dry and seasonal climate. Since environmental characteristics affect flowering and fruiting either directly (e.g. through conditions in the habitat) or indirectly (e.g. through deciduousness, LMA, SWD and LSI), the impact of probable global climatic change will have long implications on reproduction of dry tropical trees.
40305641|Recovery of the species richness of plant communities after experimental disturbances of various severities were studied in spruce forests polluted by atmospheric entry of SO and heavy metals from a copper smelter. In the three toxic load zones (impact, buffer, and background), 60 experimental "pit-andmound" complexes (sized 1 m  2 m, 20 complexes in each zone) were created. Colonization of disturbed areas by vascular plants was observed during a 6-year period after the disturbance. The results showed that the recovery processes were affected by disturbance severity and that the recovery differed significantly among the communities. In all of the zones, species richness increased rapidly after mild disturbance. In degraded communities, levelling of differences in the rate of colonization after mild and severe disturbances was observed. The highest colonization rate was found in the communities of background zone, while the lowest was found in the heavily degraded communities of impact zone. The disturbances significantly increased the species diversity of communities in all zones and caused a certain reversion of degraded communities to previous stage of anthropogenic succession. Mild disturbance promoted the greatest increase in the diversity indices. The study results indicate that recovery rate of species richness of plant communities is determined by the duration of negative effect of disturbances. Recovery also depends significantly on the magnitude and endurance of positive effect of disturbances. The studied communities differed significantly in these parameters. The study results also suggest that short-term disturbances can significantly modify the process of transformation of plant communities by atmospheric pollution. On the other hand, long-term pollution can considerably modify the response of forest communities to disturbances. The results also conclude that the resilience of communities does not exclusively depend on their species richness.
40212896|The effects of the invasive exotic Prosopis juliflora shrubs on the natural plant communities and soil chemical characters were assessed in two regions of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Five sites were selected subjectively: three in Sharja with 73 stands and two in Ras Al-Khima with 37 stands. Stands were located randomly within each site to cover density variation in Sharja and size variation in Ras Al-Khima. Density, frequency, richness and evenness of the associated annual and perennial species were studied in nine quadrats distributed under, at the margin and outside the canopy of a P. juliflora shrub located in the center of each stand. The results indicated that the effect of P. juliflora on the associated flora depends significantly on the density and size of the canopy. Larger individuals and greater densities have significantly greater negative impacts on the associated plants. All the studied community attributes were significantly lower under P. juliflora canopies than outside. Annuals were inhibited more than perennials. The number of annuals with significant reductions in density and/or frequency under P. juliflora canopies was significantly greater than the number of perennials. Density of more than 50% of the associated annuals was significantly inhibited under P. juliflora canopies. Density of P. juliflora seedlings was greater underneath the canopy of the same species than away from them, indicating little or no self allelopathic effect (auto-inhibition) under field conditions. P. juliflora ameliorated some soil characters, through significant pH reduction and increase in K, N and P and organic matters. Hence, plant diversity might be enhanced following eradication of P. juliflora.
20051049|The current state of knowledge of canopy invertebrates in tropical rain forests is reviewed using data drawn, without bias toward taxon, collecting method or biogeographical region, from 89 studies concerned with mass-collecting (&gt1000 individuals). The review is intended to identify the most serious gaps and biases in the distribution of higher taxa among forest types and biogeographical regions. With respect to knowledge, biogeographical regions can be ranked as Neotropical &gt Australian &gt Oriental &gt Afrotropical. The canopy of lowland wet and subtropical forests has been studied in greater detail, whereas the canopy of lowland dry and montane forests is much less well known. Collecting techniques influence greatly the present knowledge of canopy invertebrates. Invertebrates other than arthropods, often abundant in epiphytic habitats, phytotelmata and perched litter, are virtually unknown. The abundance of several groups, such as Acari, Collembola and Isoptera, is almost certainly seriously underestimated. Densities of invertebrate individuals in the canopy of tropical rain forests appear to be lower than in temperate forests, although invertebrate abundance is dissipated by the high standing-biomass of rain forests. Coleoptera, particularly Staphylinidae, Curculionidae and Chrysomelidae, along with Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera and Araneae appear to be the most speciose taxa in the canopy, and it is probable that this reflects their range of feeding habits and exploitation of rain forests habitats. The distribution of individuals among the major arthropod orders and across the studies examined is complex and depends on many factors. The amount of variance that can be directly explained by biogeography, forest types (subtropical, wet, dry or montane), or collecting methods appears to be about 11%. The explained variance increases when considering major families of Coleoptera (28%) or subfamilies of Chrysomelidae (40%). In all cases, the variance explained by the type of forest is much higher than by that explained by biogeography. These conclusions are similar when considering various prey-predator relationships in the canopy. This suggests that, at the higher taxa level, the composition of the invertebrate fauna in the canopy may vary comparatively more across forest types than across biogeographical regions and this is discussed briefly from a conservation viewpoint.
20051297|Resource competition can influence plant fitness either directly, or indirectly by influencing the amount of herbivore damage received by plants in the field. We previously found that competition could constrain the constitutive and wound-induced expression of defensive trypsin inhibitors in pot-grown Brassica napus seedlings in the greenhouse, suggesting that the ability of a plant to chemically defend itself could be constrained by competition in the field. Guided by these results, we investigated whether competition would affect growth and the presence of herbivores and herbivore damage on B. napus plants in the field. We established sixteen 1 m plots in the field in a 7  7 m grid. Nine two-week-old B. napus seedlings were transplanted from the greenhouse into each 1 m plot. Half of the plots were kept weed-free and half were left to develop interspecific weed competitors. After six weeks, three randomly chosen plants in each plot were measured for height, number of leaves, leaf area removed by herbivores, and the presence of aphids, leaf miners, and eggs of ladybird beetles. Consistent with the induction of the shade-avoidance response, plants in plots with weed competitors were significantly taller and had half as many leaves as plants in weed-free plots. Competing plants also had 60% more leaf area removed by herbivores, an 80% higher proportion of leaves with aphids, and an equal proportion of leaves with leaf miners. In this study, weed competition had dramatic effects on growth, leaf area removal by herbivores, and the presence of aphids on B. napus plants in the field. Together with our demonstration that competition can constrain the expression of trypsin inhibitor activity, these results suggest that resource competition may limit the ability of a plant to defend itself from natural enemies, leading to greater herbivory. In turn, increased herbivory on competing plants could exacerbate the direct effects of competition on plant fitness.
40305779|From 2003 through 2005, tidal marsh plant species diversity and abundance on historically surveyed vegetation transects along the salinity gradient of the San Francisco Estuary were investigated to establish empirical relationships between plant distributions and environmental conditions, and furthermore to examine and predict past and future plant distribution changes. This study suggests that for most species, salinity is the primary control on plant distribution. Thus, ongoing changes in estuarine conditions (increasing sea level and salinity) are resulting in a complex mix of plant distribution changes. On the low marsh, where sediment salinity is similar to that of ambient water, halophytic species are replacing salt-intolerant taxa. However, on marsh plains, where increased tidal flooding is moderating high salinity (concentrated by evaporation), halophytic "high marsh" species are being replaced by salt-intolerant "low marsh" taxa. Thus, future changes in plant distributions will hinge on whether marsh sediment accumulation keeps pace with sea level rise.
20146766|The impact of small scale disturbances on the early seedling performance components of Helleborus foetidus (Ranunculaceae) was studied through a transplant experiment. The aims of this study were: (i) to determine if the herbivory pattern depends on microsite disturbance, by the analysis of two of its components, seedling encounter (the probability of at least one seedling being harmed) and seedling exploitation (the proportion of seedling tissue removed once encountered); (ii) to test if seedlings of H. foetidus in disturbed microsites will survive in a greater proportion than seedlings in undisturbed microsites; (iii) to investigate if seedling survival is correlated with the degree of herbivory. Microsite disturbances had a large effect on the herbivory pattern. Seedlings growing in undisturbed vegetation had a 2-fold higher likelihood of being grazed and suffered 1.38-fold higher damage than those growing in disturbed plots. At the end of this experiment, after fourteen months, only 10.4% of the seedlings transplanted were still alive due to seedling desiccation, but no differences on seedling survival were found between disturbed and undisturbed plots. The effect of herbivory and the interactive effect of herbivory and disturbance on seedling survival only reached statistical significance dependent upon site. We concluded that although small scale disturbances had a large impact on herbivory patterns; they had only a minor role in the early seedling survival of H. foetidus. Only locally, small scale disturbances showed an effect on seedling survival through herbivory. Abiotic factors like summer drought and spatial variations determined the early survival of H. foetidus seedlings to a major extent.
40540380|Marsh loss is a problem in many areas around the world. In order to combat the problem, scientists and managers need tools to determine its cause and evaluate the effectiveness of management techniques. Current methods for estimating productivity and identifying factors that limit productivity are too time-consuming or expensive for widespread, regular use, however. In coastal Louisiana, where Spartina patens (Ait.) Muhl is the most common plant, restoration seeks to slow wetland loss rates that averaged approximately 77.4 km/year between 1978 and 2000. We used the chemical composition of leaf tissue from S. patens grown under controlled conditions to create a simple and inexpensive tool to identify salinity stress and nutrient limitation. By growing S. patens at varying nitrogen availability and salinity levels, we found that C:N ratios and Na concentrations can be used to classify factors that limit production in S. patens.
41508740|Spatial patterns of species diversity have important influences on the functioning of ecosystems, and the effect of livestock grazing on spatial heterogeneity can differ depending on the scale of the analysis. This study examined the effects of grazing on the spatial patterns of species distributions and whether the effects of grazing on the spatial distributions of a species vary with the scale of the analysis. Data were collected at three locations in the subalpine grasslands of Ordesa-Monte Perdido National Park and Asa Valley, Central Pyrenees, Spain, which differed in mean stocking rates. Aspect explained about one-third of the environmental variation in species distributions. In flat areas, spatial variation in species composition varied with grazing intensity at two scales. At a coarse scale (among vegetation patches), grazing promoted patchiness, and among-transect variation in species diversity and grazing intensity were positively correlated. At a fine scale (within vegetation patches), the disruption of the self-organizing processes of the species spatial distributions resulted in a reduction in the long-range spatial autocorrelations of some of the characteristic species and in the homogenization of species spatial distributions. The presence of encroaching Echinospartum horridum had a significant influence on the effect of grazing on south-facing grassland slopes.
41508736|Recruitment in plant populations is often tightly coupled to major disturbances such as fires. For species with persistent seed banks, fire-related cues may allow or enhance germination. The litter layer influences germination and may modify the impact of seed predators on seeds and seedlings. The litter layer is obviously affected by fire, providing one mechanism by which disturbance can determine recruitment. We tested the role of litter in the disturbancerecruitment coupling of two species with contrasting seed release timing after fireBanksia serrata (canopy seed bank) and Telopea speciosissima (transient seed bank) by planting their seeds both early and late in the post-fire recruitment period (PRP) and manipulating litter density in orthogonal treatments. Vertebrate seed predators were excluded. Both species established more seedlings late in the PRP, although results were strongly influenced by very poor establishment at one site. Invertebrate seed predators consumed more T. speciosissima seeds in sites early (69.5%) than late in the PRP (51.2%), while consumption of B. serrata seeds was lower overall and comparable across sites (average 47.3%). Surprisingly, litter had very little effect on establishment and none on invertebrate seed predation, suggesting that other factors are more important. Recruitment was only loosely coupled to disturbance for the canopy seed bank species; for the transient seed bank species, the coupling was tighter but separated in time from the disturbance. Understanding both the strength and temporal aspects of the disturbancerecruitment coupling is necessary for appropriate management of plant functional diversity in fire-prone habitats.
24553695|We examined the effects of short (<14 years) and long-term (22 years) nitrogen (N) and/or phosphorus (P) addition on the foliar CO2 exchange parameters of the Arctic species Betula nana and Eriophorum vaginatum in northern Alaska. Measured variables included: the carboxylation efficiency of Rubisco (Vcmax), electron transport capacity (Jmax), dark respiration (Rd), chlorophyll a and b content (Chl), and total foliar N (N). For both B. nana and E. vaginatum, foliar N increased by 2050 % as a consequence of 122 years of fertilisation, respectively, and for B. nana foliar N increase was consistent throughout the whole canopy. However, despite this large increase in foliar N, no significant changes in Vcmax and Jmax were observed. In contrast, Rd was significantly higher (>25 %) in both species after 22 years of N addition, but not in the shorter-term treatments. Surprisingly, Chl only increased in both species the first year of fertilisation (i.e. the first season of nutrients applied), but not in the longer-term treatments. These results imply that: (1) under current (low) N availability, these Arctic species either already optimize their photosynthetic capacity per leaf area, or are limited by other nutrients; (2) observed increases in Arctic NEE and GPP with increased nutrient availability are caused by structural changes like increased leaf area index, rather than increased foliar photosynthetic capacity and (3) short-term effects (14 years) of nutrient addition cannot always be extrapolated to a larger time scale, which emphasizes the importance of long-term ecological experiments.
20050620|Spatial pattern and patterns of mortality were analyzed from a five year re-census of over 7 000 mapped perennial shrubs within a one hectare study plot in Joshua Tree National Park. A five year interval revealed evidence for negative intraspecific interactions which was not evident after a one year evaluation of the same plants within the study area. Juvenile mortality was a positive function of conspecific density for Ambrosia dumosa, Eriogonum fasciculatum and Sphaeralcea ambigua. In addition, juvenile E. fasciculatum that died occurred closer to conspecific adults than would be expected by chance. The two censuses are similar in that uniform patterns of distribution among conspecifics are rare, particularly for non-succulent species. These results emphasize the value of mapped study sites in allowing dynamic inferences from otherwise static analyses. Herbivory and nurse effects are implicated as potential factors influencing the dispersion of perennial plants within deserts.
20146826|Probably gypsophytes are the most interesting set of edaphic specialists of arid and semiarid climates. Despite they conform a global biodiversity priority, there are almost no information about those adaptive traits that confer such a specialised behaviour. Our broad hypothesis is that gypsophytes are "refugeendemics" that are able to grow on gypsum soils due to their ability to surpass extremely hard gypsum soil physical crust during emergence. With this in mind we have conducted an experimental approach combining field and greenhouse assays. Seeds from two gypsophytes, genuine and widely distributed in the Iberian Peninsula gypsophytes (Helianthemum squamatum and Lepidium subulatum) and one gypsovag (Teucrium capitatum), a generalist plant that can also grow on gypsum soils were used in our experiments. Two complementary experimental approaches were conducted. The first involved a field experiment in which the presence or absence of the physical crust together with the sowing date were manipulated and a greenhouse experiment in which the irrigation amount and the types of soil were controlled. Variables of interest were the percentage of germination, growth and survival. In the field experiment we found a significant decrease in the final germination of the gypsovag in the plots with intact crusts. On the other hand, H. squamatum is able to grow in the three tested soils, despite higher survival and growth on genuine gypsum soils. Our results confirm the hypothesis that gypsum edaphic specialists base their behaviour to a great extent on the ability to surpass extremely hard gypsum surface crusts, although this seems a marginal adaptive trait as shown by the capability to grow on a complete array of soils and the negative effect of the crust along the earlier development life stages of gypsophytes. Furthermore, a gypsovag such as Teucrium capitatum presents extreme difficulties to emerge on non-disturbed gypsum physical crusts but once surpassed its growth and survival is not limited.
20050815|Population size-structures, seed production, canopy seed storage (serotiny), and recruitment were investigated in relation to fire, drought and disease for a pair of co-occurring resprouting and non-sprouting shrub species from the genus Hakea (Proteaceae) in fire-prone Eucalyptus woodlands in western Victoria, Australia. The non-sprouter species, Hakea decurrens, showed faster height growth, higher seed production and higher seed viability than the resprouter, Hakea rostrata. Population size structures in stands up to 24 years since last fire showed no evidence of inter-fire recruitment for either species. Following a fire in 1990 in a mixed species stand 15-20 years old, the estimated number of viable seeds released from canopy-stored seed banks was approximately equal for both species. However, the rate of seedling establishment in the first year was about 10 times higher, and seedling suvivorship over the first 5 years was seven times higher, for the non-sprouter. Seedlings of Hakea decurrens and resprouts of Hakea rostrata began to produce seeds within three years of the last fire, while the few surviving seedlings of Hakea rostrata showed no evidence of reproductive maturity after six years. Inter-fire recruitment was recorded for the non-sprouter, Hakea decurrens, in the oldest stand (burned in 1967) between 24 and 28 years since last fire. This was associated with an increased rate of seed release from serotinous fruits due to the onset of high rates of adult plant mortality. High adult mortality and increased seed release correlated with increasing stand age, the occurrence of severe drought, and the likely presence of Phytophthora cinnamomi, a fungal pathogen which damages the root system, reducing water and nutrient uptake. There were no new recruits for the resprouter Hakea rostrata in this stand, but old plants continued to resprout from basal lignotubers and no mortality was observed. While recruitment of strongly serotinous shrub species is commonly described as being restricted to the immediate post-fire period, the present study illustrates that other events (e.g., senescence, drought, disease) can lead to recruitment of serotinous non-sprouters and may be important in the maintenance of populations during unusually long periods without fire.
24553696|Little is known about positive interactions among members of herbaceous plant communities initiating secondary succession (i.e., ruderal communities). Here, we explored the possibility that Euphorbia schickendantzii (Euphorbia), a latex-containing herb, facilitates other ruderals by protecting them from herbivores in recently plowed and overgrazed sites in central Argentina. To test this hypothesis, we compared plant number, height, reproductive output, and herbivore damage for four species when associated with Euphorbia versus in adjacent open zones without Euphorbia. Additionally, we classified species in the community according to their palatability, and compared community composition, richness, and diversity between Euphorbia and open zones. Dominant (66 % relative abundance) and highly palatable species exhibited increased plant number, size, and fecundity, and decreased herbivory when associated with Euphorbia relative to non-Euphorbia zones. In contrast, a physically and chemically well-defended species showed greater number of individuals in the open and no differences in herbivory between sampling zones. In detrended correspondence analysis, ordination scores of most palatable species were closer to Euphorbia, while those of most unpalatable species were closer to the open. Community composition differed between areas, with six species (25 % of the community) occurring exclusively with Euphorbia and three other species occurring only in open zones. Additionally, richness and diversity were greater in communities associated with Euphorbia than in those associated with non-Euphorbia zones. These results support our hypothesis, highlight the importance of facilitation in altering community-level responses, and indicate that positive interactions can play a more significant role in organizing terrestrial ruderal communities than previously recognized.
20146626|Ranunculus peltatus Schrank is an aquatic macrophyte spreading in northeastern France. As with other Ranunculus species, its growth demonstrates considerable plasticity. A preliminary understanding of its development and precise adaptive strategy is possible through functional ecology. The present study took morphological traits into account in order to analyse R. peltatus' development and morphological plasticity in relation to environmental parameters. During the five-month growing season, field measurements of ten different morphological traits were performed monthly at twelve sampling sites presenting various physical and chemical characteristics. Three overall growth stages occurred between April and August 2000: a stage of elongation of the main stem, a stage of branching and flowering and a stage of decline associated with vegetative dispersion. The sampling sites were defined according to environmental parameters and divided into three groups corresponding to three morphologically different R. peltatus populations. Plants in upstream, nutrient-poor, undisturbed sites were small and achieved little sexual reproduction. Plants in nutrient-rich, undisturbed sites had long shoots and were branched. Plants in weakly shaded, disturbed sites were small but produced many flowers. Correlations between morphological traits and environmental parameters showed significant relationships between chemical parameters and some characteristic vegetative growth traits. Physical environmental parameters were found to be less well correlated with morphological traits than the chemical parameters. The phenology and morphological plasticity of R. peltatus confer competitive advantages that could explain its ability to spread in some circumstances. Finally, the previous classification of R. peltatus as a Grime CSR species is discussed in relation to its plasticity. According to its morphological characteristics, R. peltatus tended indeed to adopt a C-strategy in nutrient-rich undisturbed sites, a S-strategy in nutrient-poor undisturbed sites and a R-strategy in disturbed sites.
20050668|The dynamics of vegetation in the North Iberian Peninsula have been historically established from peaty and lacustrine records obtained in strongly continental mountainous areas. Pollen records located in areas with a more oceanic climate, have allowed a more precise evaluation of the changes and differences in the vegetation development of the various biogeographical areas in the North Iberian Peninsula, during the Late-glacial and Holocene. It was found that: (1) The vegetation of the Cantabrian--Atlantic province in northern Iberian Peninsula responded to climatic changes during the last 16 000 years. (2) Tree vegetation declined during the Oldest Dryas, with steppe vegetation in the interior and cryophilous vegetation along the coast. (3) During the time of the Lateglacial Interestadial, lowlands, arboreal vegetation was dominant in the landscape (Pinus, Betula, Quercus, Corylus). (4) During the Younger Dryas the differences between coast and interior are less obvious. (5) During the Holocene oceanic decidious forests of Quercus robur, Corylus avellana, Tilia sp. and Fagus sylvatica were present along the coast. At low altitudes, in the interior, forests of Quercus robur / pyrenaica, enclaves of pine woods and Mediterranean types of forest (Quercus ilex, Olea europea) were present. At higher altitudes Pinus (P. sylvestris and P. uncinata) or mixed forests of Pinus and Betula were dominant.
40666581|It is expected that elevated CO levels may have an important positive effect on the dominance of woody plants over grasses in savannas and grasslands. I propose that these changes in the relative abundance of trees and shrubs over grasses may be explained by Tilman's resource ratio models.This change will occur because C trees will have higher net photosynthetic rates than C grasses which predominate in savannas. This will cause trees to have higher growth rates than grasses. An additional factor in trees and shrubs with carbon-based defences (such as tannins or other polyphenols) is that they may be better defended and, thus, lose less material to herbivory. Consequently, trees and shrubs should invade savannas and grasslands because their R* values will be lower. I compare this model to another less parsimonious model based on fire and carbon storage and allocation. Although these models are not necessarily mutually exclusive, the resource ratio model may be differentiated from the fire-carbon model on the basis of the presence of fire and/or the sensitivity to elevations in global CO levels.
41429368|Seed dispersal by invertebrates is mostly external (e. g. by ants). However, internal dispersal (endozoochory) seems to be uncommon due to size limitations. Slugs are generalist herbivores and increasing evidence suggests that they often disperse seeds. Nevertheless, we know very little on the consequences for plant recruitment. Here, we assess the effect of slug seed passage on germination and early seedling establishment of a set of nine common plant species with limited dispersal capabilities (unassisted or ant dispersed). Germination trials were performed under natural conditions (NW of Spain). Size was a clear limitation for seed ingestion: smaller seeds were eaten more readily, whereas only the largest slugs could swallow the largest seeds. All ingested seeds were voided undamaged. Only not-ingested seeds (the biggest) were damaged, with chewing marks in the surface and 0.8% (N = 250) were broken. In some cases, slugs ate the elaiosomes but discarded the seeds. Slug seed passage had an overall positive effect on total germination and sped it up in two species. Elaiosome removal by slugs had also a positive effect in Ulex europaeus seeds (+ 160%). However, slugs had no effect on early seedling survival and growth of the study species. Our results show that slugs are effective dispersers in terms of seed treatment in the digestive track. However, according to their reduced movement range (in the range of tens of metres; as shown by other studies), they can only provide rather limited dispersal as compared to vertebrate dispersers. This can be nonetheless significant for species with limited dispersal, e. g. unassisted and ant-dispersed plants, for which they act as non-standard dispersers.
40305658|Explaining grass richness patterns over broad geographic scales is a central issue of biogeography and macroecology. In this investigation, we document the richness patterns of grasses across China's nature reserves, and discuss their possible explanations at national and regional scales using grass richness data coupled with information from climatic and topographical variables. Our results suggest that the water-and energy-related variables and elevation range (a surrogate of topographical heterogeneity) represent the primary explanations for the variation in grass richness across China's nature reserves. Significant relationships were found between energy and all grasses, water and C grasses, and the combination of water and energy and C grasses at the national scale. Topographical heterogeneity is strongly associated with grass richness across China, whereas climatic constraints to grass diversity vary regionally. In regions of high rainfall, the presence of C 4 grasses is determined by annual potential evapotranspiration and sunshine hours; the climatic constraint to C grass richness in a large and varied region is sunshine hours; whereas in regions of low soil temperature, the temperature determines the grass richness pattern. Our results also suggest that water variables alone do not represent the primary predictor of grass richness at the regional scale.
20050857|Sand movement is a predominant feature of mobile coastal and lake-shoreline sand dunes. Plants growing in these environments are able to withstand and survive periods of burial by sand. Although mosses are important dune stabilizers in temperate dunes, there are few studies focused on their response to burial by sand. In this study we examined the effects of burial by sand on 11 moss species that grow naturally on Lake Huron sand dunes and occur in a gradient of habitats from the foredunes along the shore to forested areas. Artificial burial treatments (sand depth of 0, 1, 3, 5 and 7 cm) were imposed under greenhouse and field conditions. We measured final plant cover and calculated the speed of emergence and an interpretive index (tolerance index) to compare burial responses among species by calculating a burial ratio which standardized the initial size of each species. In the greenhouse, Ceratodon purpureus and Ditrichum flexicaule recorded the highest mean speeds of emergence and Dicranum scoparium, Plagiothecium laetum, Dicranum flagellare and Brachythecium sp. 1 the lowest. In the field the trends were similar although the speed of emergence was much slower. Three types of response to burial were evident in plant cover: neutral, inhibition and stimulation. Although all eleven studied species were able to emerge from the different depths of burial, we observed that species colonizing areas with high sand mobility and deposition (C. purpureus and D. flexicaule) were the most tolerant and emerged from depths of up to 35 times their height. Species growing inland, at the base of trees (Dicranum scoparium, Brachythecium sp. 2, Plagiomnium cuspidatum and Dicranum flagellare) showed the least tolerance of burial.
20051333|The life history of an organism can be viewed as the combination of allocations made to maintenance, growth, and reproduction. Allocation to these functions are constrained by trade-offs as increased investment to one function may happen at the expense of another. Moreover, because fecundity and survival probabilities are affected by both the state of an individual and by its surrounding environment, optimal allocation to reproduction and growth may vary with both individual size/age and with the habitat in which it lives. In this study we aim to describe how flower production varies with individual plant age and leaf production among different patches of the perennial herb Corydalis intermedia. We take advantage of the construction of the underground storage organ to estimate the age of individual plants which allows us tacitly to relate flower and leaf production to individual age and successional status of the patch. We sampled all individuals present in nine patches from the same forest and estimated their age, flower production and total leaf area. The age distributions showed that each patch was most often dominated by a few and consecutive age classes. In patches where individuals had the oldest mean age, very few or no juvenile age classes were found suggesting that recruitment had ceased. Based on the age distribution of the patches we propose that the dynamics may best be described as metapopulational with colonization of newly formed open forest gaps and a successionally determined extinction as the patch gradually becomes too shaded for recruitment. Both mean flower production, leaf area and age varied significantly among patches. Flower production increased with both increasing age and leaf area. We found no indication of a trade off between reproduction and vegetative growth since flower production showed a positive relation with leaf production even after removing the effect of age. Number of flowers produced by plants of the same age but growing in different patches did not vary indicating that the difference among patches mainly was due to a difference in age distribution. No individuals produced flowers before they reached an estimated age of three years. Production of flowers followed a power function with increasing age. Our data suggests that C. intermedia plants change their allocation strategy with age investing a relatively large amount of energy in flower production immediately after the immature growth phase when recruitment in their patch may be high. Production of flowers then reaches a plateau around the age of 11 years after which number of flowers produced stays constant.
20051245|A pollen record of a Late Holocene sediment core from the Mexican Caribbean coast (Quintana Roo) shows the development and changes of a mangrove system. Humid conditions seem to have persisted for the period approximately 2500-1500
20051301|Plant reproductive output can be limited by a variety of factors, both intrinsic and extrinsic. I investigated the reproductive biologies of two species of unbranched short-columnar cacti, Ferocactus cylindraceus and F. wislizeni. I recorded female reproductive output (flowers produced, fruit set, seeds per fruit and seed mass), plant size and growth, and used hand-pollination experiments to determine breeding systems and pollen limitation. In both species, the ability to self varied among individuals, but self-pollination resulted in very few seeds, suggesting strong inbreeding depression. Neither species was pollen-limited. Numbers of flowers produced increases with plant size for both species, and seeds per fruit may also be related to plant size, although the relationship is unclear. Seed mass is not correlated with plant size. Flower production was similar in both species, but F. cylindraceus produced fewer seeds per fruit than F. wislizeni, and its seeds weighed less. Fruit set by F. cylindraceus was heavily impacted by a florivorous lepidopteran. Fruit set was very high (94 to 96%) in F. wislizeni, suggesting that architectural constraints (e.g., meristem limitation) are more limiting than resource levels or the level of pollinator services. In F. cylindraceus, numbers of seeds per fruit was positively correlated with seed mass, whereas in F. wislizeni, the relationship was negative (tradeoff). The growth rates of F. wislizeni are affected by rainfall the previous season, and growth rates increase as the plant ages. Ferocactus cylindraceus and F. wislizeni are thought to be sister species, meaning that observed differences between them are more likely to be the result of recent evolutionary processes in their lineages rather than differing phylogenetic histories.
20050648|Changes in the composition and abundance of grasses and shrubs, soil fertility, and the productivity and nutrition of the grass, Themeda triandra, were examined along an age gradient of Trinervitermes trinervoides mounds occurring in a semi-arid grassland of the Free State, South Africa. The composition and abundance of grasses and shrubs change alongside mounds as they become inactive and then erode away. The pioneer grass, Tragus koelerioides, and the climax grass, Themeda triandra, dominate around active mounds. As the mounds become inactive and erode away, these two grass species are replaced by the subclimax grass, Eragrostis lehmanniana, along with an increase in the cover of the unpalatable shrub, Walafrida saxatilis. Mound soils, in contrast, are sparsely vegetated and only change in composition, and the population abundance of T. triandra, on old active mounds compared to earlier or older mound age states. Soils on eroded mounds are more acidic, and contain higher concentrations of Mg, Ca, N, P, and total exchangeable cations (T.E.C.) than soils occurring 0.5 m from the margins of eroded, inactive and active mounds. A plant bioassay, using Lolium perenne, confirms the higher soil fertility on eroded mounds but also shows significant increases in soil fertility alongside inactive and eroded mounds. Pot experiments show an increase in the production of T. triandra plants grown on soils from eroded mounds, and those occurring alongside inactive and eroded mounds. Foliar protein and nitrogen increase when these plants are grown on soils from eroded mounds. Mounds of T. trinervoides are foci of biotic disturbance because they alter soil resources, and the population abundance and composition of grasses and shrubs in the first metre around their margins. Increases in soil fertility alongside inactive and eroded mounds, and the accompanying increase in the productivity of T. triandra, along with signs of its foliar nutrient enrichment, suggest the removal of this species through preferential grazing by animals as the mounds become inactive and erode away.
20050581|Flower-feeding insects may influence the reproductive behavior of their host plant. In plants with labile sex expression, the ratio of maternal to paternal investment may change in response to damage, an effect that goes beyond the direct reduction of plant gametes. We examined the effects of floral herbivory by the beetle Meligethes rufimanus (Nitidulidae) on the ratio of hermaphroditic flowers to male flowers in an andromonoecious shrub, Isomeris arborea (Capparaceae) in southern California. Plants exposed to herbivory had a greater rate of flower bud abortion than those protected from herbivory. Exposed plants produced a greater proportion of hermaphroditic flowers to male flowers, although damaged inflorescences still produced fewer fruit. An additional manipulative experiment showed that the removal of pistils on inflorescences led to an increase in the proportion of hermaphroditic flowers. This suggests that the presence of fruit may lead to pistil suppression in developing flowers. Adaptive responses to herbivory which favor andromonoecy thus include the continued production of hermaphroditic flowers when floral damage is high (and hence low fruit set), and a switch to male flower production when floral damage is low (and fruit production increases). The consequences of an altered six ratio induced by insect herbivores may lead to indirect effects on both the male and female reproductive success of this plant.
41508825|A common perception, particularly in South Africa, is that heavily and continuously grazed communal land leads to degradation and loss of plant diversity when compared to commercial rangeland farming or conservation areas. We focus on whether this applies to the Grassland Biome of South Africa and whether the opposite can occur, namely, an increase in plant species richness under heavy grazing. A study of a contrast between a communal area of the former Ciskei and a neighbouring nature reserve showed that intense utilization under communal use led to a significant increase in plant species richness. However, this increase was scale-dependent with the greatest significant difference occurring at sample plot scale (50 m) but converging at the broader scale of the whole study site. Species that increased with heavy grazing included those from arid Karroid areas as well as some from more mesic grassland and savanna areas. The contribution of beta diversity to gamma diversity across the grazing contrast was relatively low which reflects the relatively high proportion of species shared between treatments. Total plant canopy cover declined sharply with heavy grazing. In terms of plant canopy cover, grazing favoured annual over perennial plants, prostrate over erect plants, and stoloniferous over tussock plant architecture. This pattern was not supported when expressed in terms of number of species belonging to these grazing response groups or traits.
40540353|This article describes the patterns and processes of vegetation change and fire history in the Late Holocene (c. 2400 calendar year BP) palaeoecological sequence of Lanzahita, Sierra de Gredos in central Spain, and provides the first Iberian pollen sequence undertaken within a monospecific Pinus pinaster woodland. These new data reassess not only the autochthonous nature of this pine species in the region and the Iberian Peninsula, but also the naturalness of well-developed cluster pine forests. Conflicts of palaeoecological evidence with phytosociological models of vegetation dynamics in the study region, and the relationships of P. pinaster with fire occurrence in Mediterranean-type ecosystems, are discussed.
20146685|We report changes after frost in cerrado species populations and community structure in Assis, So Paulo State, Brazil and consider the possible impacts of frost on cerrado types and their distribution. Four permanent plots (10 m  10 m) were established and 736 individuals were marked with enumerated plastic labels and measured one week after the frost. Frost damage for each individual was assessed: 0 -- not affected; 1 -- slightly affected; 2 -- substantially affected; and 3 -- strongly affected. The frost impact on vegetation structure was high, reducing tree canopy cover from 88% to 19% in the upper stratum and that of the lower stratum from 48% to 8.5%. Floristic richness did not change, even though a small number (3%) of individuals of some species died. Conversely, the relative dominance of species changed dramatically in the short-term because of varying susceptibility to frost of different species. The largest reductions in crown cover were observed in Xylopia aromatica and Vochysia tucanorum. Of the 57 species recorded, 15% were unaffected, 19% had only their leaves damaged, 25% had some of their leaves and branches damaged, and 41% had all their aerial parts killed. The majority of individuals in the community belonged to frost tolerant species. The regeneration of the stand structure was remarkably rapid; height and canopy cover of the lower stratum recovered completely after five months, and those of the arboreal stratum showed a recovery of about 80% after 11 months. We consider that the frequency and intensity of frosts can maintain more open forms of cerrado vegetation even in sites where both water and nutrient availability could support denser vegetation. It is also probable that some frost-resistant heliophyte species are confined to areas where frosts prevent the development of denser cerrado vegetation. Much of the characteristic floristic composition of the southern region of the cerrado biome may be related to the selection of frost-resistant species. Our study shows, however, that a full complement of cerrado plants is capable of occupying and colonizing frost susceptible sites.
20051147|Spatial distribution of plants and seeds of Trichocereus pasacana was studied in relation to bush species abundance, and of cacti in relation to the available number of seeds under bush species, in Los Cardones National Park, Argentina. Randomization tests, carried out to find the significance level of Chi squared test statistics used to test for non-random association hypothesis, proved that T. pasacana plants, seeds, and seedling establishment is related to the different bush species that co-occur with it. Positive interactions were found mostly with L. divaricata, but also with P. ferox and A. spartioides, suggesting that they act as nurse plants. Negative interactions were found with B. boliviensis, A. spartioides, S. crassiramea, and Verbena sp, in spite of the high seed storage beneath their canopies. Cacti are more frequent than expected in relation to seed relative abundance under L. divaricata and P. ferox and less frequent under P. rougesii, B. boilviensis, Verbena sp, G. glutinosa, S. crassiramea, and A. spartioides, due to differential seed or seedling mortality when emergence occurs.
40540357|The aim of this study was to establish whether rabbit endozoochory affects plant community structure and whether it contributes to the dispersal of new species to areas open to colonisation. Fresh pellets were collected throughout the study area and from the youngest sandbars. The series of bars represents a gradient in terms of their age and Retama monosperma cover. At least 14 different species germinated from rabbit pellets and seed dispersal were observed throughout the year. Our results indicate that endozoochory is very important in dune ecosystems as it allows for the dispersal and colonisation of plants species with no evident dispersal mechanisms and those with several dispersal mechanisms.
40305601|The study of well-preserved archaeological charcoals in the pre-Roman Iron Age settlement of Castillejos II (Badajoz, Spain) is used to reconstruct environmental conditions and land-use practices in vegetation landscapes in the southwest of the Iberian Peninsula before the arrival of Roman civilization. The results support that, while evergreen Quercus forests dominated during the Holocene, Pinus pinaster existed as a natural element of southwestern Iberian Peninsula vegetation. Although its presence could be linked to anthropogenic disturbance or fire history, it is suggested that P. pinaster populations survived during the Holocene in the region, mixed with oaks or in monospecific stands in mountain enclaves. This hypothesis contrasts with previous assumptions that P. pinaster was not autochthonous in the area.
40540342|Mechanisms controlling the successful invasion of resource demanding species into lowresource environments are still poorly understood. Well-adapted native species are often considered superior competitors under stressful conditions. Here we investigate the competitive ability of the resource demanding alien Acacia longifolia, which invades nutrient-poor Mediterranean sand dunes such as in coastal areas of Portugal. We explore the hypothesis that drought may limit invasion in a factorial competition experiment of the alien invasive versus two native species of different functional groups (Halimium halimifolium, Pinus pinea), under wellwatered and drought conditions. Changes in biomass, allocation pattern, and N-uptake-efficiency (via  Nlabeling) indicated a marked drought sensitivity of the invader. However, highly efficient drought adaptations of the native species did not provide a competitive advantage under water limiting conditions. The competitive strength of H. halimifolium towards the alien invader under well-watered conditions turned into a positive interaction between both species under drought. Further, low resource utilization by native species benefited A. longifolia by permitting continued high nitrogen uptake under drought. Hence, the N-fixing invader expresses low plasticity by continuous high resource utilization, even under low resource conditions. The introduction of novel traits into a community like N-fixation and high resource use may promote A. longifolia invasiveness through changes in the physical environment, i.e., the water and nutrient cycle of the invaded sand dune system, thereby potentially disrupting the co-evolved interactions within the native plant community.
40666629|Most studies on seed heteromorphism have been done on species that produce one diaspore per flower. In Lappula duplicicarpa and L. semiglabra, the four nutlets per flower are dimorphic. We determined the ratio of nutlets with long (LN) and short (SN) glochids (stiff bristles) produced by individual flowers and compared their morphology, anatomy, dispersal, and germination characteristics. Nutlet morph ratios in all flowers in infructescences of field-grown plants were recorded, and morphology, anatomy, dispersal ability, and germination of LN and SN compared. The LN/SN ratio in different flowers varied; the proportion of LN in a single flower increased from base to top of infructescence. In both species, LN had greater mass and was more easily detached and dispersed than SN. LN of both species had higher overall germination percentages and rates than SN. The proportion of SN and LN produced at different positions in the infructescence changed through time. Thus, SN are produced first and then LN, resulting in an investment in longdistance dispersal after the safe sites of mother plants potentially are filled.
41508799|Prosopis flexuosa trees dominate woodlands in the Central Monte Desert (Mendoza, Argentina), with <200 mm rainfall, exploiting the water table recharged by Andean rivers, and also growing in dunes with no access to the water table. Prosopis woodlands were extensively logged during development of the agricultural oasis, and surface and groundwater irrigation could lower the depth of the water table in the future. We evaluated tree populations with decreasing access to the water table: valley adult trees, valley saplings, and dune adult trees, in order to assess their ecophysiological response to water table accessibility. High and seasonally stable pre-dawn leaf water potentials (-2.2  0.2 to-1.2  0.07 MPa) indicated that valley adults utilize larger and more stable water reservoirs than valley saplings and dune adults (-3.8  0.3 to-1.3  0.07 MPa), with higher midday leaf conductance to water vapor (valley adults ~250; dune adults <60 mmol m s), potentially higher CO uptake, and increased radial growth rate (valley adults 4.1  0.07; dune adults 2.9  0.02 mm year). Trees with poor access to the water table exhibited drought tolerance responses such as midday stomata closure, leaflet closure, and osmotic adjustment. Stomata density decreased in response to drought when leaf expansion was restricted. The combination of phreatophytism and drought tolerance would enlarge P. flexuosa habitats and buffer populations against changes in rainfall dynamics and water table depth.
20050660|Tiller demography was compared in two populations of Spartina maritima present at similar elevations in the coastal saltmarshes of Odiel (Huelva, S.W. Spain). The successional population consisted of colonizing tussocks in a littoral lagoon, and the non-successional population comparised a stable sward that had fringed a major channel for 40 years. At both sites S. maritima was replaced by Arthrocnemum perenne at higher elevation, where sediments were less reducing. Rapid, consistent sediment accretion confirmed the successional nature of the lagoon site but there was little net accretion in the stable sward. Census of permanent quadrats at the successional site chronicled moving concentric 'waves' of high tiller density as tussocks expanded. Initially high densities declined after one year to low values at the end of the second year but they had almost recovered after 3 years. The decline represented a combination of reduced numbers of births and increased numbers of deaths. Tiller densities were substantially higher in the stable sward and showed relatively small fluctuations with time. The underlying risk of tiller mortality was similar in the two populations for much of the time but after two years there was increased mortality, mainly associated with flowering, at the successional site; very few tillers flowered in the sward. This mortality contributed to a shift to a younger age structure in the successional population. Data aggregated over consecutive 3-monthly periods were examined for density dependence. None was found in the successional population. In the sward population there was evidence of density-dependent adult and juvenile mortality of tillers, particularly over the first 18 months of the study, when there were compensatory responses to subtle variations in density. The lack of density dependence and relatively low peak density of about 2000
20051307|Understanding responses of both dominant and sub-dominant plant species to management regimes and climatic variables is a critical component of understanding an ecosystem's potential response to local or regional changes in such parameters. The dominant vegetation of much of the North American tallgrass prairie is composed of C grasses. As the most abundant species, Andropogon gerardii has been well characterized ecologically. The second most abundant, co-dominant species, Sorghastrum nutans, has received less attention, mainly because it has been considered the "ecological equivalent" of A. gerardii and is assumed to have responses similar to those of A. gerardii. The objective of this study was to assess the validity of this assumption by examining long-term abundance patterns and responses to climate, fire, and grazing for both species. Based on 15 years (1983-1997) of plant species composition and cover data collected at Konza Prairie Biological Station in northeastern Kansas, USA, we were able to detect important differences between these two grasses. Regression analysis showed that long-term reductions in the cover of A. gerardii were correlated with decreasing summer maximum temperatures, whereas inter-annual variations in the cover of S. nutans were related to annual precipitation. Additionally, the cover of S. nutans increased with increasing fire frequency, while the cover of A. gerardii was not significantly affected by fire frequency. Bison grazing did not significantly affect the cover of either species studied. The mean cover of A. gerardii decreased significantly over the 15 years, but only a slight change was noted in the cover of S. nutans. The decrease in A. gerardii corresponded to increased plant species diversity and evenness and has the potential to impact the tallgrass prairie ecosystem from population through ecosystem levels. The observed differences in these co-dominant species may prove important under climate change scenarios predicted for the tallgrass prairie of North America.
20051210|Alternative cropping practices can be expected to increase the diversity and change the species composition of weed communities. In a six-year field experiment we compared species diversity and species composition in the weed community of cereal fields cultivated by conventional and by low-input cropping methods. In the conventional cropping both mineral fertilizers and herbicides were applied but in the low-input cropping the fertlizer was manure and herbicides were avoided altogether. The level of nitrogen fertilization was higher in conventional cropping. A five-year crop rotation comprising rye, oat-pea, barley and two-year grasslands was used in both cropping methods. We found that the species pool was larger (42 vs 35 species) and the average number of species higher (20.2 vs 13.1 species) in low-input than in conventional cropping. This was the case both in the data pooled across crops and in each crop separately. Herbicides affected species diversity and species composition more than did nitrogen fertilization. Species susceptible to the herbicides applied declined in abundance, which resulted in more skewed dominance patterns in the communities of conventional fields than in those of low-input fields. The crop affected the species composition of weed communities more than did the cropping method. Our results suggest that weed species diversity could be promoted by using low-intensity cropping practices.
20050470|Dynamic and structural aspects of Thalassodendron ciliatum were studied in the intertidal zones around Inhaca Island during the rainy seasons 1991 to 1993. Measurements comprised leaf growth rate, leaf detachment rate, biomass, above-ground to below-ground biomass ratios and total rhizome length. On average, three leaves were, at the same time, formed and detached from a shoot during 15 day periods and five leaves from a shoot during 30 day periods. Mean leaf growth rate varied from 101.2 to 159.5 mm, 313.2 to 366.9 mm and 540 to 583.0 mm for 15, 30 and 45 days of measurements respectively. Differences between locations (Banco Sidzanye, Barreira Vermelha and Portinho-EBM/BV) were not statistically significant for the 30 and the 45 day period, but significant for the 15-day period. The average leaf growth rate per day was between 14.1 to 18.3
41508810|Understanding plant community change over time is essential for managing important ecosystems such as riparian areas. This study analyzed historic vegetation using soil seed banks and the effects of riparian shrub removal treatments and channel incision on ecosystem and plant community dynamics in Canyon de Chelly National Monument, Arizona. We focused on how seeds, nutrients, and ground water influence the floristic composition of post-treatment vegetation and addressed three questions: (1) How does pre-treatment soil seed bank composition reflect post-treatment vegetation composition? (2) How does shrub removal affect posttreatment riparian vegetation composition, seed rain inputs, and ground water dynamics? and (3) Is available soil nitrogen increased near dead Russian olive plants following removal and does this influence post-treatment vegetation? We analyzed seed bank composition across the study area, analyzed differences in vegetation, ground water levels, and seed rain between control, cut-stump and whole-plant removal areas, and compared soil nitrogen and vegetation near removed Russian olive to areas lacking Russian olive. The soil seed bank contained more riparian plants, more native and fewer exotic plants than the extant vegetation. Both shrub removal methods decreased exotic plant cover, decreased tamarisk and Russian olive seed inputs, and increased native plant cover after 2 years. Neither method increased ground water levels. Soil near dead Russian olive trees indicated a short-term increase in soil nitrogen following plant removal but did not influence vegetation composition compared to areas without Russian olive. Following tamarisk and Russian olive removal, our study sites were colonized by upland plant species. Many western North American rivers have tamarisk and Russian olive on floodplains abandoned by channel incision, river regulation or both. Our results are widely applicable to sites where drying has occurred and vegetation establishment following shrub removal is likely to be by upland species.
20051060|The air temperature around three branches loaded with epiphytes in a tropical lowland rain forest in French Guiana was measured from mid-June to mid-July 1997. These data represent the first direct measurements of temperature close to epiphyte-loaded branches in a tropical lowland forest. The epiphytic biomass of one of the branches was removed after two weeks of measurements. These differences in stripped versus unstripped branch temperatures were positive during day time. A maximum difference of 4.8 C was measured on a single sunny day; the maximum of four mid-day hours averaged over all days was 2.3 C. Maxima were determined at locations close to the branch, representing high accumulations of humus, while nearly no differences were detected 75 cm away from the branch. At night, the temperature was cooler after epiphyte biomass removal; differences were up to -0.5 C. Close to the branch, evaporation of stored water in humus cools the environment while latent heat transformation on epiphyte surfaces raises temperature. Shading under a branch prevents heating. Epiphytes reduce air circulation, keeping unheated air on branch undersides. At night, auto-heating of humus may occur through increased rates of respiration.
20050943|We studied the degree and scale of patchiness of vegetation and selected soil variables along a gradient of herbivore impact. The gradient consisted of a radial pattern of 'high', 'intermediate' and 'low' herbivore impact around a watering point in a semi-arid environment in Burkina Faso (West Africa). We hypothesised that, at a certain range of herbivore impact, vegetated patches alternating with patches of bare soil would occur as a consequence of plant-soil feedbacks and run-off-run-on patterns. Indeed, our transect data collected along the gradient showed that vegetated patches with a scale of about 5-10 m, alternating with bare soil, occurred at intermediate herbivore impact. When analysing the data from the experimental sites along the gradient, however, we also found a high degree of patchiness of vegetation and soil variables in case of low and high herbivore impact. For low herbivore impact, most variation was spatially explained, up to 100% for vegetation biomass and soil temperature, with a patch scale of about 0.50 m. This was due to the presence of perennial grass tufts of Cymbopogon schoenanthus. Patterns of soil organic matter and
20051109|Phalaris arundinacea is an invasive species in some regions of North America. The literature on how the light environment affects seed germination in Phalaris arundinacea is contradictory, and clarification is necessary for understanding its mechanisms of invasion. In our trials, germination was photoperiod insensitive in the range of 12 to 16 hours. Highest germination percentages (up to 80) were obtained under white light and red light (11.0 mol
40212989|Many studies have shown that soil disturbance facilitates establishment of invasive, non-native plant species, and a number of mechanisms have been isolated that contribute to the process. To our knowledge no studies have isolated the role of altered soil compaction, a likely correlate of many types of soil disturbance, in facilitating invasion. To address this, we measured the response of seeded non-native and native plant species to four levels of soil compaction in mesocosms placed in an abandoned agricultural field in the Methow Valley, Washington, USA. Soil compaction levels reflected the range of resistance to penetration (0.1-3.0 kg cm) measured on disturbed soils throughout the study system prior to the experiment. Percent cover of non-native species, namely Bromus tectorum and Centaurea diffusa, decreased by 34% from the least to the most compacted treatments, whereas percent cover of native species, mostly Pseudoroegneria spicata and Lupinus spp., did not respond to compaction treatments. Experimental results were supported by a survey of soil penetration resistance and percent cover by species in 18 abandoned agricultural fields. Percent cover of B. tectorum was negatively related to soil compaction levels, whereas none of the native species showed any response to soil compaction. These results highlight a potentially important, though overlooked, aspect of soil disturbance that may contribute to subsequent non-native plant establishment.
40212987|Qilian juniper (Sabina przewalskii Kom.) and Qinghai spruce (Picea crassifolia Kom.) represent different tree functional types, which can be found extensively in northwestern China. The former is drought-tolerant, whereas the latter is hygrophilous and shade-tolerant. We compared their intrinsic water-use efficiency (iWUE, inferred from carbon isotopic discrimination,
41508655|A positive effect of herbivory on plant reproduction (overcompensation) has been documented mostly in monocarpic plants. Iteroparous perennials can be used to test whether enhanced reproduction in 1 year has negative future consequences as predicted by optimal allocation models. This study was intended to verify this prediction in the iteroparous herb Sedum maximum, applying mechanically simulated herbivory. I monitored 132 labelled S. maximum individuals during 2 years of study. They were randomly assigned to two groups: clipped and control. Infructescence dry mass, total seed dry mass, seed size, germination rate and an increase of root dry mass during the season were assessed in the experimental plants. Since only roots can survive to the next season, root dry mass was considered a reliable measure of allocation to future performance. Clipped plants showed increased fruit and seed dry mass versus the controls, with no other aspect of reproduction affected. Apical bud removal also had a positive effect on increase of root dry mass. The results indicate true overcompensation in response to simulated herbivory with no future costs of increased reproduction. Moreover, increased plant reproduction as a result of herbivory is likely to persist in the following years: clipping increased not only seed production but also root growth. This response is inconsistent with the results of optimal allocation models and the discrepancy is probably due to violation of the resource limitation assumption. Plants adapted to tolerate herbivory seem not to reproduce at the maximum rate when undamaged, but rather withhold resources to be allocated to reproduction after herbivory.
41686802|In stressful and disturbed ecosystems, seedling establishment may be facilitated by early colonizing plants. We examined the mechanism of such facilitation by tussock-forming species (Carex middendorffii and Eriophorum vaginatum), focusing on the independent and interactive effects of tussock litter and tussock mound substrate. Shading by litter on tussock mounds provides a stable but dryer substrate that may negatively affect early colonizers, owing to the co-occurrence of light deficiency and limited water availability, but positively affect late colonizers by subsequent amelioration of water availability. We used seed sowing and seedling transplant experiments with un-manipulated tussocks and manipulated shading x tussock mounds to examine seedling emergence, survival, and the biomass of early (Moliniopsis japonica) and late (Lobelia sessilifolia) colonizers in a post-mined peatland in northern Japan. Carex and Eriophorum tussocks facilitated seedling emergence and the growth of M. japonica and L. sessilifolia. Manipulation experiments indicated that the major positive effect was in providing stable substrates for seeds and seedlings. While the survival and growth of both colonizers were unaffected by shading alone and were negatively affected by tussock mounds alone, shading on tussock mounds decreased both the survival and growth in M . japonica but increased it in L. sessilifolia. Overall, tussock mounds with litter shading accelerated seedling establishment, especially that of late colonizers, in post-mined peatland. Our results indicate that the importance of facilitation mechanisms, for early successional plant composition that result from independent and interactive processes that co-occur as environmental conditions change.
40607001|We investigated whether the seed banks of ex-arable lowland calcareous grasslands underwent restoration similar to that of the above-ground restoration, and whether this was influenced by seed-sowing or environmental conditions. We compared 40 sites, where some form of restoration work had been implemented between 2 and 60 years previously, with 40 paired reference sites of good quality calcareous grassland with no history of ploughing or agricultural improvement. We analysed differences between sites and between above-and below-ground vegetation using both a multivariate approach and proportions of selected plant attributes. Seed banks of reference sites were more characteristic of late successional communities, with attributes such as stress tolerance, perenniality and a reliance on fruit as the germinule form more abundant than in restoration sites. In restoration sites, these tended to decrease with restoration site isolation and increase with restoration site age and where soil nutrient conditions were more similar to reference sites (i.e. with relatively low phosphorus and high nitrogen). Seed bank communities of all sites differed considerably from above-ground communities, however, and no overall significant responses to site age, isolation or soil nutrients were detected by multivariate analyses of similarity of species between pairs of sites. Responses to different seeding methods were also barely detectable. While there is some indication from the plant attribute data that the regeneration potential contained in the seed banks of restored sites increasingly resembles that of references sites over time, even seed banks of good quality calcareous grassland are dominated by ruderal species. It is likely, therefore, that permanent seed banks do not facilitate the restoration of ex-arable grasslands.
20050930|An analysis of vegetation along an altitudinal gradient on the Presidential Range, New Hampshire, USA, using the Braun-Blanquet approach followed by multivariate data analysis is presented. Twelve main plant communities have been distinguished. Floristic information is presented in twelve tables and one appendix. The relationships of the communities to complex environmental gradients are analyzed using Correspondence Analysis. Floristic composition and community structure are controlled primarily by the altitudinal gradient (temperature, precipitation), and by mesotopographic conditions (snow accumulation, exposure and cryoturbation, slope position, and soil moisture).
41508650|Temporal instability of forest climategrowth relationships has been evidenced at high elevations and latitudes, and in Mediterranean contexts. Investigations under temperate conditions, where growth is under the control of both winter frost and summer water stress, are scarce and could provide valuable information about the ability of forest to cope with climate change. To highlight the main climatic factors driving the radial growth of Quercus petraea forests and to detect their possible evolutions over the last century, dendroecological analyses were performed along a longitudinal gradient of both decreasing summer water stress and increasing winter frost in northern France (from oceanic to semi-continental conditions). The climategrowth relationships were evaluated from 31 tree-ring chronologies (720 trees) through the calculation of moving correlation functions. Q. petraea displayed a rather low sensitivity to climate. High temperature in March and water stress from May to July appeared to be the main growth limiting factors. The sensitivity to winter precipitation and summer water stress decreased from oceanic to semi-continental conditions, whilst the correlation to winter frost tended to increase. Moving correlations revealed a general instability of climate-growth relationships, with a moderate synchronicity with climatic fluctuations. The main changes occurred during previous autumn for both temperature and precipitation whilst climatic trends were rather low or non-significant. The most coherent trends were pointed out (i) in April with a cooling (-0.9C) leading to positive correlation to temperature at the end of the century, and (ii) in July with a decreasing inter-annual variability of precipitation resulting in a loss of correlation. On the contrary, the decreasing temperature and increasing precipitation in May and June led to few significant changes climate-growth relationships.
23362523|A model was developed to assess how the seed rain and fire regime affect seed bank dynamics and seedling establishment of three native shrub species (Acanthostyles buniifolius, Baccharis pingraea and Baccharis dracunculifolia) with different regeneration strategies, in temperate South American savanna. Seed bank and seed rain were quantified for each species under different fire regimes, and their relative roles in regeneration were evaluated. All species had short-term persistent seed banks and high annual variability in seed production. A high proportion of seeds deposited in the seed rain produced seedlings after fire; few entered the soil seed bank. Fire killed a high proportion of the seeds in the soil seed bank. Seedlings derived from the seed rain had a higher probability of surviving for 2 years than seedlings emerging from the soil seed bank. In the absence of fire, establishment depended on germination both from the seed rain and the soil seed bank, whereas with annual fire, establishment was primarily dependent on germination of seeds arriving in the annual seed rain, regardless of species' regeneration strategies. These results help to explain changes in the vegetation of South American temperate savannas as a result of changes in fire regime and grazing management during the last 50 years. By revealing the crucial roles of the soil seed bank and seed rain in regeneration, this study provides vital information for the development of appropriate management practices to control populations of shrub species with different regeneration strategies in South American temperate savannas.
20051331|Prior land-use history might influence damage and recovery of plant communities from natural disturbance. We examined effects of previous agricultural land use on damage and recovery of plant communities affected by Hurricane Georges. The study was conducted in the karst region of Los Haitises National Park, Dominican Republic. We compared pre- and post-hurricane stem density, basal area and diversity of woody vegetation in sites within the park that had been subject to different land use histories. The type of land uses included a wide range of histories, ranging from abandoned pastures and conucos (mixed plantings) to cacao plantations, intact forests and mogotes (hilltop communities) with no recent history of land use. Previous land use and the amount of basal area present prior to the hurricane determined effects of, and recovery from hurricane disturbance. Systems with high pre-hurricane basal area lost many large trees, whereas the basal area hardly changed in systems without large trees. Thus, basal area decreased at forested sites, mogotes, and cacao plantations and remained comparable to pre-hurricane figures in all other land uses. Shifts in species diversity paralleled to some degree reductions in basal area. Species diversity increased in mogotes and cacao plantations, perhaps as a result of hurricane damage to the forest canopy, which facilitated regeneration of heliophilic species. Finally, regeneration of cacao seedlings in former cacao plantations, and growth of pioneer species in young conucos (mixed plantings) more than doubled post-hurricane stem densities for these two types of land use. Previous agricultural land use left a lasting impression on the structure and composition on plant communities, which persisted even after hurricane damage.
20051009|In this study, the first comprehensive multivariate statistical analysis of Danish native forest vegetation, based on 1768 sample plots, is presented. Data were composed of data from literature sources and newly collected data. A series of cluster analyses resulted in 24 forest community types, grouped in beech (Fagus sylvatica), oak (Quercus robur-Q. petraea), hornbeam (Carpinus betulus), alder-ash (Alnus-Fraxinus) and lime (Tilia cordata, T. platyphyllos) types, in addition to mixed forest communities with several co-dominant tree species. The described communities are provisionally arranged syntaxonomically, when possible, according to the international phytosociological system. The distribution of ecological indicator values of pH, soil moisture and nitrogen is gradual in relation to the perceived plant communities. Many forest types, such as beech and oak dominated types, obtain indicated values for pH that span most of the indicated gradient. It is suggested that natural Danish forests probably would be composed of a multitude of canopy forming tree species. The present stands with one or a few tree species forming the canopy is the result of long anthropogenic influence and selective logging.
40606944|Predicting how herbivory and neighbor plant interactions combine to affect host plants is critical to explaining variation in herbivores' impact on plant population dynamics. In a field experiment, we asked whether the combined effects of neighbor plants and folivores upon performance oftall thistle (Cirsium altissimum), a monocarpic perennial, can be predicted as the product of their individual effects (i.e., effects of neighbor plants and folivores act independently in suppressing tall thistle performance). Alternately, the combined effects of neighbor plants and folivores might be greater, indicating a synergistic interaction, or less, indicating an antagonistic interaction, than the product of their individual effects. Our experiment involved a neighbor plant clipping treatment and a folivory reduction treatment in a factorial design with manipulations applied to naturally occurring tall thistle rosettes in restored tallgrass prairie. Clipping neighbors at the soil surface within 40 cm of tall thistle rosettes increased light availability to rosettes, rosette growth, and the transition rate of 2007 rosettes to reproductive adults in 2008. Folivores' and neighbor plants' effects acted independently upon rosette growth. By contrast, folivory reduced the rate at which 2007 rosettes transitioned to reproductive adults in 2008 only where neighbor plants were undipped, indicating a possible synergistic interaction of neighbor plants and folivores in suppressing tall thistle performance. Our results suggest that (1) promoting neighbor plant aboveground biomass should suppress rosette-forming weeds, and (2) folivory, which reduces light acquisition by rosettes, may generate synergistic herbivory  neighbor plant interaction effects on rosettes in grasslands, where light often limits rosettes.
23267455|Human disturbance in alpine habitats is expected to increase, and improved knowledge of short-term recovery after disturbance events is necessary to interpret vegetation responses and formulate planning and mitigation efforts. The ability of a plant community to return to its original state after a disturbance (community resilience) depends on species composition and environmental conditions. The aim of this study is to analyze initial short-term effects of disturbance in alpine plant communities in contrasting climates (oceanic vs. continental; central Norway). We used a nested block-design to examine vegetative regrowth and seedling recruitment after experimental perturbation. Three plant community types along the snow pack gradient were exposed to (1) no disturbance, (2) clipping, and (3) clipping and uprooting. Slow vegetative regrowth and low seedling establishment rates were found in dry alpine ridges and late-melting oceanic snowbed communities. Lee-side habitats with intermediate snow conditions were found more resilient. The difference was related to growth form and species diversity. Woody species, which dominated in ridges and oceanic snowbeds, showed the most negative response to disturbance. Species-rich plant communities dominated by graminoids and herbs showed higher rates of regrowth. Species richness seems to cause resilience to the plant communities through higher response diversity. Plant communities at the extreme ends of abiotic gradients, ridges and late-melting snowbeds, will be most sensitive to both disturbance and environmental change. In an up-scaled human-used landscape disturbance effects will be amplified and further limit recovery to a pre-disturbance state.
40540324|In order to better understand tree dynamics and maintenance of the ecotone between eastern deciduous forest and tallgrass prairie, I planted seedlings of five different species into a Cross Timbers area in North West Oklahoma for one-year. The seedlings were planted in four different patchtypes under two different herbivore treatments. I found that (1) out of the original 200 seedlings, 58 survived after one-year with lacebark elm (Ulmus parrifolia), osage orange (Madura pomifera), and eastern redbud (Cercis canadensis) surviving the most and protection from herbivores increasing survivorship by more than an order of magnitude, (2) elm (Ulmus parrifolia) showed the slowest stem growth but protection from herbivory increased stem growth rate by approximately 50%, leaf area ratio was largest for elm (Ulmus parrifolia) but seedlings growing in sumac (Rhus copallina) patches had the smallest values, specific leaf area was the largest for orange (Madura pomfera) seedlings with tree seedlings growing in grass patches showing greater values than those grown in other patches, and (3) leaf mass ratio was largest for elm (Ulmus parrifolia) with seedlings grown in sumac (Rhus copallina) patches showing the smallest values and rough-leaf dogwood (Cornus drummondii) had the most root biomass relative to shoot biomass compared to all other species. Results suggest tree invasion and establishment across this ecotone is influenced both by species identity and by the variation in resources associated with the distribution and patch dynamics of vegetation from both eastern deciduous forest and tallgrass prairie.
20146606|Selection of individuals in tropical trees, occurs mainly in the seedling phase, which in part explains the low densities of most species. The main objective of this work was to gain an insight into those factors that influence growth and survival of Manilkara zapota seedlings, one of the most abundant species in the lowland forests of Mexico and Central America. Eight 10-m rectangular plots (5m2m) were established, in which all &lt 35-cm-high M. zapota seedlings were marked, measured and enumerated at bimonthly intervals. In each census seedling height, number of leaves, length of largest leaf, type of damage and seedling death were registered. Seedling survival during 2 yr was high, reaching 82% including newly emerged seedlings. A maximum likelihood regression analysis showed that both number of leaves and length of largest leaf had a direct influence on seedling survival; however, neither type of damage nor seedling density and height had significant effect. Seedling height growth averaged 2.8 cm in the 2 yr of study. The combined effect of high seedling survival, reduced growth, and impact of physical damage mainly due to falling branches and leaves reveals the occurrence of a persistent seedling bank. Such a bank would contribute to recruitment of individuals in the juvenile and eventually in the adult stages. This seedling bank could explain the high density of individuals of M. zapota in the tropical forests of Mexico.
20051261|The germination responses of 4 shrubs, Erica arborea, E. australis and Daboecia cantabrica (Ericaceae) and Genistella tridentata (Papilloneaceae) in relation to variable light and temperature regimes was determined for freshly harvested and 1 year-old seeds. Temperature treatments consisted of 5 levels of heat from 60 C to 140 C and two levels of exposure time, 2 and 4 min. We also examined the effects of stratification on germination of Erica arborea and E. australis. The seeds of Erica arborea were the first to begin germinating and the freshly collected ones reached the highest level of germination with light. The seed viability of E. arborea was affected by storage, decreasing germinative capacity, while mean germination in Erica australis ssp. aragonensis was lowest. However, the stored E. australis seeds germinated better than the fresh ones. Germination response to ageing varies in Daboecia cantabrica depending on heat pretreatment. A significantly positive effect of high temperature and exposure time on germination was shown in Daboecia cantabrica and Genistella tridentata. Cold pre-treatment of seeds did not enhance germination.
20050935|We examined the effects of herbivory by the dorcas gazelle, Gazella dorcas, on different phenological stages of the lily Pancratium sickenbergeri from 1990-1996 in the Negev desert, Israel. We placed particular emphasis on the role of gazelle herbivory on selecting for plant defences and the effectiveness of these defences against subsequent herbivory. In the summer months, the gazelles dig in the sand to remove all or part of the bulb of the lily. Plants with partially-consumed bulbs were less likely to produce leaves the following winter and probably have lower lifetime flower production. Herbivory has resulted in greater downward growth of the bulb in populations with herbivory than those without herbivory, which reduces the probability that the entire plant will be consumed. Gazelles eat the leaves in the winter; this herbivory has a negative impact on leaf growth rates. However, the production of calcium oxalate limits gazelle consumption to the tips, and consequently reduces the effects of leaf herbivory. In the fall, the gazelles consumed virtually all flowers, yet we found no defence or growth strategy that might ameliorate this impact, with the possible exception of forgoing the output of a second flower stalk after the first has been consumed. The results of this study suggest that lilies employ different strategies to resist gazelle herbivory, and that these strategies are dependent on the phenological stage that is eaten. Avoidance by defence is the strategy in the leaves, avoidance by escape is utilized in bulbs. Forgoing the output of a second flower stalk after the first has been consumed can be considered as a form of escape based on a bet-hedging strategy or a shift in energy allocation.
41412359|Invasive species continue to alter the plant communities of the eastern United States. To better understand the mechanisms and characteristics associated with invasive success, we studied competition between two Acer species. In a greenhouse, we tested (1) the effect of forest soil type (beneath an invasive and native stand) on seedling growth of the invasive Acer platanoides (Norway maple) and native A. rubrum (red maple), and the (2) effects of full (above-and below-ground) and partial inter-specific competition on species growth. We found A. rubrum growth was negatively affected by soil from the invaded stand, as it had lower above-ground (32%) and below-ground (26%) biomass, and number of leaves (20%) than in the native soil. The root:shoot resource allocations of A. platanoides depended on soil type, as it had 14% greater root:shoot mass allocation in the native soil; this ability to change root:shoot allocation may be contributing to the ecological success of the species. Widely published as having a large ecological amplitude, A. rubrum may be a useful species for ecological restoration where A. platanoides has been present, but the impacts of A. platanoides on soil functioning and subsequent plant interactions must be addressed before protocols for native reintroductions are improved and implemented.
40540370|Dwarf mangroves on peat substrate growing in eastern Puerto Rico (Los Machos, Ceiba State Forest) were analyzed for element concentration, leaf sap osmolality, and isotopie signatures of and N in leaves and substrate. Mangrove communities behind the fringe presented poor structural development with maximum height below 1.5 m, lacked a main stem, and produced horizontal stems from which rhizophores developed. This growth form departs from other dwarf mangrove sites in Belize, Panama, and Florida. The dwarf mangroves were not stressed by salinity but by the low  availability reflected in low P concentrations in adult and senescent leaves. Low P availability was associated with reduced remobilization of N and accumulation of in senescent leaves, contrasting with the behavior of this cation in terrestrial plants. Remobilization of N and P before leaf abscission on a weight basis indicated complete resorption of these nutrients. On an area basis, rsorption was complete for P but not for N. Sulfur accumulated markedly with leaf age, reaching values up to 400%, compared with relatively modest accumulation of Na (40%) in the same leaves. This suggests a more effective rejection of Na than sulfate at the root level. Dwarf mangrove leaves had more positive < C values, which were not related to salinity, but possibly to drought during the dry season due to reduced flooding, and/or reduced hydraulic conductance under P limitation. Negative leaf N values were associated with low leaf P concentrations. Comparison with other R. mangle communities showed that  concentration in adult leaves below 13 mmol kg is associated with negative N values, whereas leaves with P concentrations above 30 mmol kg in non-polluted environments had positive N
20051193|Pinus tabulaeformis is an endemic species in northern China. The northern edge of its distribution corresponds to the northern margin of the monsoon climate. Several stands of Pinus tabulaeformis beyond its major range of distribution were found on the southeastern edge of the Inner Mongolia Plateau. Phytosociological analysis shows that the community structure, species composition and regeneration ability of Pinus trees in these stands are quite different from those within its continuous range of distribution. This paper presents palynological evidence to explain how and when these remnant communities were formed. Pinus tabulaeformis entered the study area in the mid-Holocene as the summer monsoon intensified, and declined when the summer monsoon weakened. Climatic change was the driving factor for the migration of Pinus tabulaeformis. It might be supposed that the competition between pine and oak forest during the mid-Holocene warm period also affected the immigration of pine. The remnant stands of Pinus tabulaeformis were apparently favored by the microhabitat of the sandy soils in valleys when the climate became drier. The remnant stands of Pinus tabulaeformis help stabilize the stand dunes. The protection of these stands is an important task of natural conservation in the study area.
20050623|Two data sets, one from the 1960s and one from 1990, from continuously managed semi-natural meadows (semi-natural grasslands used for hay-cutting) in Smland, southern Sweden, were analysed to describe the vegetation and in an attempt to characterise changes that have occurred in the vegetation. Based on a classification of the data set, nine plant communities were recognised. The main vegetational differences, as revealed by an ordination, were due to variation in soil moisture, which ranged from wet to dry. During the investigation period, the amount of hay meadow area decreased, particularly the area of wet-moist meadows. In addition, the total variation in the vegetation diminished, and three plant communities more or less disappeared. The turnover index of species in the data set was 36%, and most of the species that were lost had initially been uncommon. Lost species included rare taxa, such as Gentianella campestris and Linum catherticum, while the new species tended to be common in the region. Annual and biennial species accounted for a greater proportion of the lost taxa than did perennial species. The mean cover of species per plot and the relative abundance of graminoids per plot increased. The recorded changes in the vegetation may be related to the increased loads of nitrogen pollutants as well as to a decrease in management intensity. The diminished area is related to changes in land-use. The meadow sites in Smland have been part of a landscape rich in grasslands, but today they have a more or less relict status. They differ from grasslands found elsewhere in Sweden and Scandinavia. In Sweden, the majority (68%) of endangered vascular plants belong to the agricultural landscape. To ensure the survival of individual species it is important to preserve all types of meadows, not only a few selected ones, since no two meadows are alike.
40212979|The plant functional group approach has the potential to clarify ecological patterns and is of particular importance in simplifying the application of ecological models in high biodiversity ecosystems. Six functional groups (pasture grass, pasture sapling, top-canopy tree, top-canopy liana, mid canopy tree, and understory tree) were established a priori based on ecosystem inhabited, life form, and position within the forest canopy profile on eastern Amazonian region. Ecophysiological traits related to photosynthetic gas exchange were then used to characterize such groups. The ecophysiological traits evaluated showed considerable variations among groups. The pasture grass functional group (a C photosynthetic pathway species) showed high instantaneous water use efficiency
20050756|This paper focuses on the effects of systemic rust and smut fungi on non-crop clonal plants and on the role of clonal growth in disease escape. Systemic rusts and smuts have a major effect on individual plants and populations as they affect growth and survival. Diseased plants may become distorted, stunted and/or elongated. However, the results are very variable. For example, growth and competitive ability may be reduced or increased, and survival may or may not be affected. Furthermore, clonal plants are able to escape systemic diseases by vigorous growth or by the production of long rhizomes. It is argued that a better understanding of the effects of systemic rusts and smuts on clonal individuals and populations requires not only more studies but ones that particularly focus on the life history of both host plant and pathogen and the mechanisms that allow parts of the clonal system to escape disease.
41508767|We released seeds of two sympatric tree species, Corylus mandshurica (seed with thinner seed hull, higher nutrition) and C. heterophylla (seeds with thicker seed hull, lower nutrition) in the masting year of C. mandshurica in 2008, and C. heterophylla in 2009, respectively, to investigate how seed masting of the two sympatric Corylus species affects seed removal and dispersal fitness of the two species differently at both intra-and inter-specific levels. At intra-specific level, the authors found mast seeding of both C. mandshurica and C. heterophylla significantly reduced seed removal, seed consumption, but increased seed dispersal distance and seed dispersal fitness of the released seeds. Mast seeding of C. mandshurica increased seed caching of C. mandshurica. At inter-specific level, the authors found mast seeding of G mandshurica reduced seed removal of C.heterophylla, but mast seeding of C. heterophylla did not significantly reduce seed removal of C. mandshurica. Mast seeding of C. mandshurica reduced seed consumption of C. heterophylla, while mast seeding of C. heterophylla reduced seed consumption of C. mandshurica. We found mast seeding of C. mandshurica significantly reduced seed dispersal distance of C. heterophylla, while mast seeding of C. heterophylla significantly increased seed dispersal distance of C. mandshurica. We found that mast seeding of C. mandshurica significantly increased seed dispersal fitness of C. heterophylla, while mast seeding of C. heterophylla did not significantly increase seed dispersal fitness of C. mandshurica. More studies are needed to reveal the ecological consequences of mast seeding at interspecific or community-level. Seed traits may attribute the differences of mast seeding at inter-specific level. Because seeds with thinner seed hull and higher nutrition were more harvested and eaten by rodents, mast seeding of C. mandshurica might have reduced seed removal and seed consumption, but increased dispersal fitness of C. heterophylla (seeds with thicker seed hull, lower nutrition). Therefore, synchrony among species is, or is not, selectively beneficial to the focus species depends on seed traits which determine gains from mast seeding at interspecific level.
40212888|To test the prediction of sex allocation theory that plants or flowers high in resource status emphasize the female function, we explored the variation in both biomass (the number of pollen grains and ovules) and temporal (male and female durations) sex allocation among and within plants of protandrous Lobelia sessilifolia in relation to plant size and flower position within plants. Among plants, the mean number of pollen grains and ovules per flower of a plant increased with plant size, whereas the mean P/O ratio (number of pollen grains/number of ovules ratio) decreased with plant size. The mean male duration, the mean female duration, and the mean ratio of male duration/flower longevity per flower of a plant were not correlated with plant size. Thus, large plants emphasized female function in terms of biomass sex allocation, which is consistent with the prediction of size-dependent sex allocation theory. The results for temporal sex allocation, however were inconsistent with the theory. Within plants, the mean number of pollen grains and ovules per flower at each position decreased from lower to upper flowers (early to late blooming flowers) and that of the P/O ratio increased from lower to upper flowers. The mean male duration and the mean female duration per flower decreased from lower to upper flowers, whereas the mean ratio of male duration/flower longevity increased from lower to upper flowers. The population sex ratio changed from malebiased to female-biased. Thus, later blooming flowers emphasized the male function in terms of both biomass and temporal sex allocation, consistent with the sex allocation theory, regarding the change in the population sex ratio.
41508764|The effects of direct and indirect defenses differ among plant species, and the variation in the mode of plant defenses might reflect physiological and/or ecological constraints of each mode of defense related to the growth and reproduction of individual plant species. To evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of indirect ant-mediated defense via extrafloral nectaries (EFNs), we compared the herbivory pressure, leaf chemicals, vegetative growth, and reproduction between two species of vetches, Vicia sativa var. angustifolia (Reichard) Wahlenb (Leguminosae) with EFNs and V. hirsuta (L.) SF Gray without EFNs (or with very small EFNs). Indirect ant defense of V. sativa was not consistently reliable because of the low constancy of ant attraction. In addition, V. sativa was more vulnerable to attack by herbivores than V. hirsuta. The estimated total amount of sugars secreted by EFNs of V. sativa corresponded to 0.5% of total leaf biomass, and 0.07% of total plant biomass, indicating a low investment to the production of extrafloral nectar. Vicia sativa plants grew more rapidly than V. hirsuta plants during the reproductive stage. Therefore, we consider that V. sativa adopts the ant defense via EFNs in spite of its low reliability because the indirect ant defense supported by EFNs requires only low investment, allowing the plants to attain rapid growth in the early spring.
40305597|This study examines the impact of the exotic nitrogen-fixing legume Melilotus officinalis (L.) Lam. on native and exotic species cover in two Great Plains ecosystems in Badlands National Park, South Dakota. Melilotus is still widely planted and its effects on native ecosystems are not well studied. Melilotus could have direct effects on native plants, such as through competition or facilitation. Alternatively, Melilotus may have indirect effects on natives, e. g., by favoring exotic species which in turn have a negative effect on native species. This study examined these interactions across a 4-year period in two contrasting vegetation types: Badlands sparse vegetation and western wheatgrass (Pascopyrum smithii) mixed-grass prairie. Structural equation models were used to analyze the pathways through which Melilotus, native species, and other exotic species interact over a series of 2-year time steps. Melilotus can affect native and exotic species both in the current year and in the years after its death (a lag effect). A lag effect is possible because the death of a Melilotus plant can leave an open, potentially nitrogen-enriched site on the landscape. The results showed that the relationship between Melilotus and native and exotic species varied depending on the habitat and the year. In Badlands sparse vegetation, there was a consistent, strong, and positive relationship between Melilotus cover and native and exotic species cover suggesting that Melilotus is acting as a nurse plant and facilitating the growth of other species. In contrast, in western wheatgrass prairie, Melilotus was acting as a weak competitor and had no consistent effect on other species. In both habitats, there was little evidence for a direct lag effect of Melilotus on other species. Together, these results suggest both facilitative and competitive roles for Melilotus, depending on the vegetation type it invades.
40305447|Mistletoes typically grow on tall old trees. Does this positive size-prevalence relationship result simply from the accumulation of infections as trees age, or do other factors related to tree size lead to differential dispersal, germination, establishment or survival of mistletoes? We examined patterns of infection prevalence and intensity of the mistletoe Phragmanthera dschallensis on its main host, Acacia sieberana, in a savannah in Zambia. The probability that an A. sieberana tree was infected increased with tree size, although infection intensity did not. In addition, infected trees were significantly taller than non-infected trees, even after removing the effect of tree age, using trunk diameter as a proxy. To determine whether differential dispersal occurred, we observed the feeding behaviour of the three main avian dispersers of this mistletoe, Pogoniulus chrysoconus, Lybius torquatus and Cinnyricinclus leucogaster, in relation to tree size. All three preferred perching in taller trees, whether trees were parasitized or not. To test whether differential germination of seeds or establishment of seedlings occurred, we planted mistletoe seeds on small and large A. sieberana trees and recorded germination, establishment and survival of seedlings. All seeds germinated, and seedling establishment at 7 months and seedling survival to 14 months was no different on small and large trees. Thus, host size did not affect germination and establishment. Finally, we measured the survival of established mistletoes on trees of different sizes over a 3-year period. Mistletoes survived significantly better on taller hosts. Our results support the hypotheses that higher mistletoe infection prevalence in taller trees results from differential dispersal of mistletoe seeds to tall trees as well as differential survival of established mistletoes on tall trees, and is not simply an accumulation of infections as trees age.
20051322|Fire history was compared between the Colorado Front Range (U.S.A.) and northern Patagonia (Argentina) by dating fire-scars on 525 Pinus ponderosa and 418 Austrocedrus chilensis, respectively, and determining fire weather on the basis of instrumental and tree-ring proxy records of climatic variation. Years of above average moisture availability preceding fire years, rather than drought alone, is conducive to years of widespread fire in the Colorado Front Range and the northern Patagonian study areas. Above-average precipitation promotes fire by enhancing the growth of herbaceous plants which increases the quantity of fine fuels during the fire season a few years later. The short-term variability in moisture availability that is conducive to widespread burning is strongly related to El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) activity. The warm (El Nio) phase of ENSO is associated with greater moisture availability during the spring in both regions which leads to peaks in fire occurrence several years after El Nio events. The warmer and drier springs associated with la Nia events exacerbate the drying of fuels so that fire years commonly coincide with La Nia events. In both regions, there was a dramatic decline in fire occurrence after the early 1900s due to a decline in intentionally set fires by Native Americans and European settlers, fuel reduction by livestock grazing, and increasingly effective organized fire suppression activities after the 1920s. In both regions there was a marked increase in fire frequency during the mid-and late-19th centuries which coincides with increased ignitions by Native Americans and/or European settlers. However, year-to-year variability in ring widths of Pinus ponderosa and Austrocedrus chilensis also increased from relatively low values in the late 1700s and early 1800s to peaks in the 1850s and 1860s. This implies frequent alternation of years of above and below average moisture availability during the mid-19th century when the frequencies of major fire years rise. The high correlation of tree-growth variability betweem the two regions implies a strong inter-hemispheric variation in climatic variability at a centennial time scale which closely parallels a variety of proxy records of ENSO activity. Based on the relationship of fire and ENSO events documented in the current study, this long-term trend in ENSO activity probably contributed to the mid- and late- 19th century increase in fire spread in both regions. These similar trends in fire occurrence have contributed to similar patterns of forest structures, forest health, and current hazard of catastrophic wildfire in the Colorado Front Range and northern Patagonia.
41429370|The Mediterranean landscape is characterized by a heterogeneous structure: a mosaic of woody plants (trees or shrubs) with scattered patches of herbaceous vegetation. Although the herbaceous and woody patches are adjacent to each other, plant species composition in them is substantially different. This could be attributed to either differences in environmental conditions between patch types (i. e., abiotic filters), or to dispersal limitations caused by the woody plants acting as dispersal filters. In this article, we focus on the relative impact of woody plants, applying these two filter types, in determining plant species composition in Mediterranean woodland. We experimentally manipulated shade and litter cover and examined the effect of each of these factors on plant species composition. We used seed-traps to evaluate seed arrival in the patches, and experimentally removed the shrub canopy to study the effect of the shrub as a physical barrier to seed entry. Results showed that plant species number and composition were not significantly affected by shade and litter manipulation. The number of trapped seeds were significantly higher in the open patches than in the woody patches, and removal of woody plants increased the number of trapped seeds in both open and woody patches, as a result of eliminating the physical obstacle to free seed movement. Our findings show that woody plants affect the herbaceous plant community by influencing seed dispersal, and highlight that they affect other organisms not only by modifying resource availability but also through the creation of a new landscape structure.
20051007|I measured competitive responses of experimentally-established populations of the perennial grass, Andropogon gerardi, across a complex gradient of standing crop and species composition in the successional grasslands of southwest Michigan. The goal was to assess whether long-term (three year) population-level responses of Andropogon to competition matched the inferences made from a previous phytometer study that examined transplant responses to competition across this same gradient over a single growing season. Replicate experimental populations of Andropogon were established at seven grassland sites by sowing seed into 0.5  0.5 m plots that had been denuded of all vegetation. During the first year of the study, all Andropogon populations were maintained as monocultures by hand weeding. At the end of the first growing season, half of the monocultures were selected for continued weeding and half were left open to invasion by competitors for three years. Invasion of the unweeded populations by neighboring plants varied strongly among sites and was positively correlated with standing crop. Increased susceptibility to invasion and competition resulted in the extinction of the unweeded Andropogon populations at the two most productive sites, supporting the hypothesis that Andropogon is restricted by competition to low productivity sites in these grasslands. The finding that the intensity of competition was positively correlated with standing crop is consistent with the previous transplant study, suggesting that shortterm experimental assays of competition on the growth of individual transplants may have predictive value for longer-term outcomes of competition at the population level.
40212864|Evaluation of litterfall production is important for understanding nutrient cycling, forest growth, successional pathways, and interactions with environmental variables in forest ecosystems. Litterfall was intensively studied during the period of 1982-2001 in two subtropical monsoon vegetation gradients in the Dinghushan Biosphere Reserve, Guangdong Province, China. The two gradients include: (1) a successional gradient composed of pine forest (PF), mixed pine and broadleaved forest (MF) and monsoon evergreen broadleaved forest (BF), and (2) an altitudinal gradient composed of Baiyunci ravine rain forest (BRF), Qingyunci ravine rain forest (QRF), BF and mountainous evergreen broadleaved forest (MMF). Mean annual litterfall production was 356, 861 and 849 g m for PF, MF and BF of the successional gradient, and 1016, 1061, 849 and 489 g m for BRF, QRF, BF and MMF of the altitudinal gradient, respectively. As expected, mean annual litterfall of the pioneer forest PF was the lowest, but rapidly increased over the observation period while those in other forests were relatively stable, confirming that forest litterfall production is closely related to successional stages and growth patterns. Leaf proportions of total litterfall in PF, MF, BF, BRF, QRF and MMF were 76.4%, 68.4%, 56.8%, 55.7%, 57.6% and 69.2%, respectively, which were consistent with the results from studies in other evergreen broadleaved forests. Our analysis on litterfall monthly distributions indicated that litterfall production was much higher during the period of April to September compared to other months for all studied forest types. Although there were significant impacts of some climate variables (maximum and effective temperatures) on litterfall production in some of the studied forests, the mechanisms of how climate factors (temperature and rainfall) interactively affect litterfall await further study.
20050748|'CLO-PLA2' (CLOnal PLAnts, version 2) is a database on architectural aspects of clonal growth in vascular plants of central Europe. The database includes 2749 species, characterised by 25 variables, either directly or indirectly related to clonal growth. The total number of items in the database is over 12750. The structure of the database is described and the variables used to characterise clonal growth of individual species are listed. Two examples of database utilisation are given. The first concerns the relationship between habitat niche width and the mode of clonal growth. Turf graminoids, species with long-lived rhizomes either short to long and formed below-ground, or short and formed above-ground, and short-lived rhizomes formed above-ground, are over-represented among the species with very broad niches and under-represented among the species with narrow niches. In contrast, species multiplying by plant fragments are missing among the species with the broadest niches. The second example explores how individual clonal growth modes are combined in individual species. About 21% of species of clonal plants have more than one mode of clonal growth. Some combinations are over-represented in certain families and environments. The application of phylogenetic independent contrasts (PIC) showed that both phylogenetic constraints and adaptations to particular environmental conditions play important roles in determining the observed pattern.
20050540|The leaf nitrogen contents of beech growing in the Sierra de la Demanda are studied, relating the contents with other structural population characteristics. For this, different experiments were conducted: (a) To analyze of nitrogen levels in shed leaves, in leaf biomass and in leaves decomposing on a test plot in the 'Tres Aguas' beech forest. (b) To study leaf nitrogen contents over a vegetative cycle in the above beech forest. (c) To study the leaf nitrogen contents of thirty beech stands in the Sierra de la Demanda located at different altitudes and corresponding to three beech budding isophenes. Annual nitrogen accumulation in leaf biomass was 79.4 kg
40606972|Browsing is one of the main factors determining survival, growth rate, woodland structure, and distribution of the high mountain tree Polylepis australis. This species has a substantial regrowth capacity, which may function as a mechanism to tolerate herbivory, but it is unknown to what extent it may compensate for the impact of herbivory. In 15 low-density tree stands subject to exclusion, moderate, and heavy livestock pressure, we selected 12 P. australis individuals < 2 m tall, tagged four new shoots per tree and measured shoot length every month during a year. At the stand and at the tree level, we analyzed monthly dynamics of growth and browsing, and the annual output in terms of total browsing and total gross and net growth (not discounting and discounting consumption, respectively). In addition, we assessed the influence of stand, tree and microsite characteristics on growth and browsing patterns. Polylepis australis fully compensated for herbivory in terms of shoot gross growth at moderate, but not at heavy livestock pressure. In terms of net growth, this species did not fully compensate for herbivory at any stocking rate. We found a strong coupling between browsing and growth along the year, suggesting that regrowth attracts browsing, and browsing promotes regrowth. At the stand level, annual gross growth was not affected by habitat characteristics, while at the tree level, annual gross growth decreased on more rocky microsites for browsed but not for unbrowsed trees. We concluded that stocking densities should be limited to allow for a reasonable annual net growth, as its nitrogen rich leaves are a valuable food resource and P. australis forests provide important ecosystem services.
20146414|Canopy gap and chilling requirements for seed germination were assessed in 61 and 44 species, respectively, in the temperate rain forest of southern Chile. Germination assays within canopy gap and understorey were carried out under natural conditions. Germination tests in cold stratified and non-stratified seeds were performed under laboratory conditions. Seeds were collected of common trees, shrubs, vines and perennial herbs of forests in southern Chile. Final percent germination was significantly enhanced under canopy gap conditions in 19 species, and significantly reduced in 11 species. Germination proved indifferent under gap vs. understorey conditions in half the species tested. Cold stratification affected germination in 11 species: significantly increasing final germination of four species, and significantly decreasing final percent germination of seven species. A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) was applied with the purpose of identifying groups of species with similar germination strategies. Four attributes were included in the PCA: final germination percentage in canopy gap, germination rate in the laboratory, and gap-and chilling-dependency indices (EGAP and STRAT, respectively). The first axis separated species mainly on EGAP variation while the second axis separated them mainly according to STRAT variation; the two axes together explaining 73% of the among-species variation. A small group of trees and vines germinating best in the understorey and neutral to chilling could clearly be distinguished from the remaining species analyzed. Multifactorial ANOVAs were used for evaluating the combined effect of successional status, seed mass, dispersal period, life form, phylogenetic categories, and dispersal syndrome on EGAP and STRAT variation. The EGAP value of secondary successional species proved significantly greater than that of primary successional species and species with endozoochorous seed dispersal were significantly less dependent on chilling (according to STRAT values) compared to species with mainly wind-dispersed seeds. The possible implications of these results for seedling establishment are discussed.
41508753|In the Taita Hills in southern Kenya, remnants of the original Afromontane forest vegetation are restricted to isolated mountain peaks. To assess the level of degradation and the need for forest restoration, we examined how forest plant communities and their indicator species vary between and within remnant patches of cloud forest. We used ordinal abundance data to compare plant communities in eight forest fragments. We also analyzed data on the diversity and abundance of trees in 57 0.1 ha plots to compare tree communities within and between the largest two of these fragments, Ngangao (120 ha) and Mbololo (220 ha). The extant vegetation of the Taita Hills at landscape scale consists of secondary moist montane to intermediate montane forest. There was a high species dissimilarity between fragments (69%). Variation in species composition coincided with an abiotic gradient related to elevation. At plot level, secondary successional species and species of forest edges were most abundant and most frequent. Inferred clusters of plots almost entirely coincided with the two forest fragments. Indicator species associated with forest margins and gaps were more frequent in the smaller of the two forest fragments, while indicators for the larger fragment were more typical for less disturbed moist forest. Abiotic site variability but also different levels of disturbance determine sitespecific variants of the montane forest. Conservation efforts should not only focus on maintaining forest quantity (size), but also on forest quality (species composition). Late-successional rainforest species are underrepresented in the woody plant communities of the Taita Hills and assisting restoration of viable populations of cloud forest climax tree species is urgently needed.
20050837|A field experiment was conducted at the Jornada Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site in the Chihuahuan Desert of New Mexico to compare the rapidity with which the shrubs Larrea tridentata and Prosopis glandulosa utilized water, CO and nitrogen (N) following a simulated summer rainfall event. Selected plants growing in a roughly 50-m area were assigned to treatment and control groups. Treatment plants received the equivalent of 3 cm of rain, while no supplemental water was added to the control plants. Xylem water potential (
20146345|Patterns of diversity and community organisation of woody species of savannahs in Roraima, northern Brazil, were investigated, to relate structural data with edaphic factors and to analyse floristic relationships using classification and ordination techniques. The species studied refer to an inventory of 45 plots of 150  10 m (0.15 ha) distributed in the Roraima savannahs. We identified 13,410 woody individuals, belonging to 30 families, 52 genera and 71 species. The percentage of rare species is high, 58%. The richness, diversity, density and basal area of the studied plots suggest that Roraima savannahs are poor in species. The most important species include element dwarf shrubs (Byrsonima verbascifolia, Tibouchina aspera and Cassia obtusifolia), shrubby (Psidium guianense, Randia formosa, Casearia sylvestris, Erythroxylum suberosum, Tocoyena formosa and Mimosa microcephala) and arboreal (Curatella americana, B. crassifolia, B. coccolobifolia, Bowdichia virgilioides, Roupala montana, Antonia ovata, Genipa americana, Vitex schomburgkiana, Peltogyne campestris, Xylopia aromatica and Himatanthus articulatus). Correlation between edaphic factors and vegetation indices reveal that density seems to be more sensitive to edaphic factors than to basal area and diversity. Density correlated significantly with levels of Al, K and the quantity of sand in the soil. Edaphic factors can explain the distribution and importance of some species, such as: B. virgilioides, R. montana and P. guianense. Classification analysis tended to confirm PCA results, separating Roraima savannahs into three large clusters. This suggests that ecological differentiation is based not only on species density but also on basal area. Ordination describes floristic variation but does not identify all edaphic gradients.
23362517|Recent studies have highlighted the role of lianas in shaping stand dynamics both in tropical and temperate forests. However, English ivy (Hedera helix L.), one of the most widespread lianas in Europe, has received little attention. We conducted a study in the Siro Negri alluvial forest (NW Italy) to determine what factors most affected ivy distribution and investigate its interactions with the trees in the stand. We evaluated the influence of tree size, age, species, and neighborhood crowding on ivy occurrence. In addition, growth ring widths were used to explore the development pattern of climbing stems. Fifty-two percent of trees in our study plots carried ivy, a value comparable to liana incidence found in mature tropical forests. Tree characteristics and their spatial pattern significantly influenced ivy distribution. Preferred hosts were large, isolated trees, while the effect of tree age and species on ivy occurrence was marginal. Growth pattern analysis revealed that radial growth was positively related to the available space on the tree trunk for each ivy stem. We conclude that neighborhood crowding around trees and competition among climbing stems relying on the same trunk may reduce the colonization rate of ivy.
20146870|We examined the above- and below-ground responses of seedlings of the woody shrub Prosopis glandulosa to the spatial heterogeneity of soil nutrients within the root zone. We performed a microcosm experiment where seedlings were grown with different combinations of nutrients [nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and both combined (NP)] and under different levels of nutrient heterogeneity (nutrients supplied as patches located in the bottom and/or upper portion of rooting zone versus homogeneous distribution). Seedling morphology and biomass did not show a strong response to changes in nutrient ion or spatial heterogeneity. Height, number of leaves, and specific leaf area did not vary significantly between treatments. The number of leaves, foliar biomass, stem biomass and biomass allocation to stems of seedlings showed more responsiveness to the addition of N and NP than to the addition of P. The spatial heterogeneity of nutrients affected the diameter, root biomass and leaf N content. Seedlings had higher diameter and root biomass when the nutrients were homogeneously distributed as compared to their placement as patches in the bottom of the microcosms. Their leaf N concentration increased in those treatments where the nutrient patch was located in the lower half as compared to the upper half of the microcosms. Root foraging responses to nutrient patches varied with their location. Significant root proliferation was observed when patches of N, P and NP were located in the upper portion of the rooting zone; when they were located in the lower portion such a response was observed only for P. Despite our findings that Prosopis seedlings have a low overall responsiveness to small-scale vertical differences in soil nutrient heterogeneity, our results suggest that these differences may modify the growth dynamics of the secondary roots of this ecologically important dryland species during the early stages of its development.
41508849|A fundamental goal of restoration is the re-establishment of plant diversity representative of native vegetation. However, many prairie restorations or Conservation Reserve Program sites have been seeded with warm-season grasses, leading to grass-dominated, low-diversity restorations not representative of native grasslands. These dominant grasses are strongly mycotrophic, while many subordinate forb species appear to be less dependent on mycorrhizal symbiosis. Therefore, manipulating arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) may be useful in promoting establishment and growth of forb species in grassdominated prairie restorations. To assess the potential role of mycorrhizae in affecting the productivity and community composition of restored tallgrass prairie, we conducted a 4-year field experiment on an 8-yearold grassland restoration at the Konza Prairie in northeastern Kansas, USA. At the initiation of our study, seeds of 12 forb species varying in degree of mycorrhizal dependence were added to established grass-dominated plots. Replicate plots were treated biweekly with a soil drench of fungicide (Topsin-M  ) over four growing seasons and compared to nontreated control plots to assess the role of AMF in affecting plant species composition, productivity, leaf tissue quality, and diversity in restored tallgrass prairie. Topsin applications successfully reduced mycorrhizal colonization of grass roots to approximately 60-80% relative to roots in control plots. Four years of mycorrhizal suppression reduced productivity of the dominant grasses and increased plant species richness and diversity. These results highlight the importance of mycorrhizae as mediators of plant productivity and community dynamics in restored tallgrass prairie and indicate that temporarily suppressing AMF decreases productivity of the dominant C4 grasses and allows for establishment of seeded forb species.
41508734|Unpalatable plant species often act as biotic refuges by protecting neighboring plants from herbivores. This positive interaction can increase functional diversity in grazed ecosystems by protecting species sensitive to grazing. While many studies investigate pair-wise interactions between benefactors and beneficiaries, few show that these interactions result in community composition effects. We studied the effect of an unpalatable plant, Juncus effusus, on wetland plant communities in grazed and ungrazed plots. We tested the following predictions: (1) Juncus would increase plant functional diversity in grazed wetlands; (2) Juncus would have significant effects on community composition; and (3) the effects of Juncus on other species would change across the grazing gradient. We found that Juncus preserved functional diversity in grazed wetland communities by protecting species that decrease with grazing pressure. In multivariate analyses, grazing was the strongest driver of species composition but we found significant effects of Juncus on both vegetation change and species composition in grazed plots. Interactions with Juncus were facilitative in grazed plots and competitive in ungrazed plots, but did not vary along the grazing gradient (0.151.7 cows/ha). These results indicate that Juncus has significant community composition effects in grazed wetland plant communities. Understanding the effects of plant interactions such as these at the community level is essential to applying plant interactions to restoration or management.
20051353|Land-use changes in a forested floodplain's watershed can lead to incremental changes in the hydrology and sedimentation rates of the floodplain. The impacts of these changes can be difficult to measure due to the slow response time of mature trees. Seedlings and saplings, on the other hand, may show an immediate response. Responses during these early life history stages can have major consequences for regeneration of floodplain forests and ultimately result in community alteration. This study tested the importance of changes in hydrology and sedimentation on the germination and growth rates of three common floodplain tree species: Acer rubrum, Fraxinus pennsylvanica and Quercus palustris. Two-year-old saplings were grown in a greenhouse under two hydrologic regimes, with or without the addition of sediment. Neither periodic flooding with or without sediment nor static flooding on its own affected the growth of the seedlings. With the addition of sediment, static flooding for two weeks lead to a significant decrease in sapling growth. There was a significant species x treatment interaction, suggesting that each species responded differently to the application of flooding and sediment. The timing of germination and the total percent germination for F. pennsylvanica and Q. palustris seeds were tested under the same conditions. Flooding and sediment acted in an additive manner to delay the germination of both F. pennsylvanica and Q. palustris and to reduce the total germination rate of Q. palustris. There was no difference in the total germination rate of F. pennsylvanica seeds under any treatment. During the growth trials, adventitious roots sprouted on saplings grown under sedimentation. Adventitious roots growing into sediment rather than floodwater should be able to utilize the sediment's nutrients and may compensate for some of the stress of flooding. The results of this study suggest that sediment tolerances will vary among species, but will not necessarily correlate with flood tolerances, and that sedimentation may be as important as flooding in determining floodplain plant community composition.
20051355|The independent effects of herbivores and neighbors on plants are generally negative, and therefore the combined effects of these interactions are generally assumed to have additive or multiplicative negative effects on plant growth. However, because herbivores can stimulate the growth of plants (compensation) and neighbors can facilitate each other, the combined effects of herbivory and plant-plant interactions can be highly variable and poorly predicted by current competition and plant-herbivore theory. In some cases in North America, Festuca species appear to facilitate invasive Centaurea species and enhance their compensatory responses in controlled greenhouse conditions. We explored the interactions between herbivory and neighbor effects in the French Alps by testing the effect of the neighbor, Festuca paniculata L., on the compensatory growth response of defoliated Centaurea uniflora L. over two growing seasons. Seventy percent of aboveground C. uniflora biomass was clipped at each of seven times throughout two growing seasons in the presence or absence of F. paniculata. Centaurea uniflora compensated for severe damage in the first year, but was negatively affected by defoliation in the second year. Defoliating C. uniflora reduced final aboveground biomass by 44% and flower number by 64%, but did not affect survival. Unlike observations for other Centaurea and Festuca species, F. paniculata had significant competitive effects on C. uniflora. Festuca paniculata neither enhanced compensatory responses of C. uniflora nor increased the negative effects of defoliation. Our results show that compensatory responses can weaken over time, but that neighboring plants do not necessarily increase the negative effects of defoliation.
20146338|Whether small gaps in the aboveground vegetation of productive old fields correspond to gaps in belowground plant biomass, and whether such "root gaps" result in a reduction of competition for soil resources is not known. Our study in an abandoned hayfield shows that root biomass within small gaps (&lt 0.50 m diam) is 20% of that found within intact vegetation, similar to the findings for shoot biomass. Associated with the decrease in root biomass was a 25% reduction in the intensity of belowground competition within gaps compared to the surrounding matrix vegetation. These differences could not be attributed to variation in soil properties, as gap and matrix soils did not differ in any of the physical or chemical properties measured. These results indicate that the increased plant growth commonly observed within gaps may be partly due to reduced belowground competition, independent of any advantage gained from increased light availability. By providing areas of low belowground competitive intensity, gaps in this field could allow poor belowground competitiors to exist with in old fields, thus increasing community diversity.
20146497|Variations in leaf traits (toughness, total nitrogen and total phenolic concentrations) and susceptibility to herbivory in Salix miyabeana were studied among individual trees within a population under field conditions. Leaf quality clearly decreased as season progressed, i.e. increases in leaf toughness and total phenolics and decrease in leaf nitrogen. Seasonal pattern and extent of herbivore attack were similar between years. Significant correlation between leaf traits and susceptibility to herbivore attack was detected, while effects of sex and plant size on leaf traits and herbivory were less clear. There was a negative correlation between total nitrogen and total phenolics, and a positive correlation between leaf toughness and total phenolics among trees. Trees with high quality leaves tended to suffer from frequent herbivore attack and leaf damage. Such a clear relationship between leaf traits and susceptibility to herbivory may be related with a life-history strategy of willows, which are rapid-growing pioneer species and generally respond to herbivorous damage not by induced resistance but by compensative growth.
40540344|In small populations of plant species with separate sexes, it can be expected that besides the local environment also stochastic events influence population sex ratios. Biased sex ratios may in turn negatively affect genetic diversity due to increased genetic drift and, in clonal plants, due to reduced sexual reproductive output. Empirical evidence for these processes is scarce, however. We investigated the pattern of sex ratio variation and the distribution of genetic variation of the dioecious clonal forest herb Mercurialis perennis using AFLP markers. Analysis of molecular variance indicated a pronounced genetic structure. Overall within-population genetic diversity was moderate and local sex ratios were slightly male biased. The proportion of male to female plants in large populations slightly increased with increasing light penetration to the herb layer. Small populations, on the contrary, displayed high variability in sex ratios, unrelated to the local light environment. Genotypic diversity decreased with more male-biased sex ratios. We conclude that stochastic events related to small population size and the local forest environment, related to canopy closure, affect the proportion of female plants and indirectly influence local genotypic diversity, likely through the degree of sexual reproduction. This is one of the first studies to report a clear association between gender proportions and genetic diversity of a dioecious plant species in a fairly large survey.
41429057|Creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) and redtop (A. gigantea) are introduced turfgrasses that are naturalized throughout the northern U.S. Interest in creeping bentgrass has risen following the 2003 escape of a genetically modified (GM), herbicide-resistant cultivar near Madras, Oregon. The objectives of this study were to characterize the floristic attributes of the plant communities associated with naturalized Agrostis populations in the Madras area, and to identify plant communities at risk of invasion by transgenic Agrostis. Vegetation data collected from 62 stratified random vegetation plots with and without A. stolonifera and A. gigantea identified 11 distinct plant communities. Community composition was strongly correlated with an indirect soil moisture index based on the wetland status of individual species. Results indicate that wetland plant communities are at the highest risk of invasion by transgenic A. stolonifera. Also, inter-specific gene flow to A. gigantea could affect additional habitats and plant communities where A. stolonifera is not found. Both A. stolonifera and A. gigantea were invasive in wetland and riparian settings in the Madras study area, and introducing glyphosate (e.g., Roundup  , Rodeo  ) herbicide tolerance into these populations would eliminate the primary means of control for these species.
20050496|The spatial characterisation and vertical analysis are together considered important to evaluate structure of forested landscapes. In recent years, increased human impacts have resulted in changes in landscape and structure of the forest ecosystem. The present study is aimed to analyse impacts of disturbance on landscape structure using satellite remote sensing and a geographic information system (GIS) in Madhav National Park of India. The Landsat TM data have been used to identify vegetation types. The patch characteristics of the vegetation like size, shape, porosity and patch density have been studied. The physical and humanmade features have divided the national park in three zones. These zones are also utilised as management zones by the State Forest Department. The study indicates that the central zone is distinctly different from the south and north zones. The patch size and porosity have been found to be most important parameters to discriminate differences in the ecological status of three different zones of the park. The patchiness and shape provide supportive information and characterise the patches of the zones. The structural analysis of the vegetation revealed effect on species diversity and biomass distribution in the different disturbance regimes.
20050599|Sex ratios of populations of the dioecious shrub Pistacia lentiscus L. (Anacardiaceae) were studied. Several hypotheses concerning biased sex ratios were tested. The expected pattern of male preponderance in stressful habitats was not found. The populations located in a microclimatic gradient, such as a slope, did not display a male-biased sex ratio on the stressful middle slope. The populations located in a climatic gradient did not display a male-biased sex ratio in the more xeric habitats. Testing the hypothesis of female preponderance when pollen grain competition exists, we found a significant correlation in the direction opposite to that predicted by this hypothesis. Low density of individuals (an estimate of pollen density) correlates with a high preponderance of females but the sex ratio approaches 1:1 when density increases. This correlation should have an upper threshold in 1:1 because male-biased sex ratios have never been found.
20146796|Fire is a key factor affecting the survivorship and dynamics of woody plants in savannas, but few empirical studies in savanna vegetation have investigated correlates of mortality following fire at the level of individual stems. A study of stem mortality as a function of size, neighbourhood effects, and prior damage (mainly caused by elephants) was undertaken in an area of Kalahari sand vegetation in western Zimbabwe. Stem and whole-plant mortality were quantified for the dominant stems of 557 trees in 4 plots following dry season unplanned fires in 2001. Two plots were located in areas that had been affected by frost earlier in the season, and 2 in areas that had not. Mortality was also recorded for 1762 trees in 20 unburned reference plots, also classified according to the presence of frost damage. Mortality estimators were constructed with a maximum likelihood regression method. Whole-plant mortality was low (on the order of 1-2%) compared with stem mortality, which in burned plots approximated 100% for the smallest size classes and declined as a function of stem diameter. Fire-driven mortality was lower in stems protected by the crowns of larger trees than in stems that were in the open. There was also evidence to suggest that the effects of fire are exacerbated by the prior action of frost and elephant herbivory.
40305648|Periodic fire, grazing, and a variable climate are considered the most important drivers of tallgrass prairie ecosystems, having large impacts on the component species and on ecosystem structure and function. We used long-term experiments at Konza Prairie Biological Station to explore the underlying demographic mechanisms responsible for tallgrass prairie responses to two key ecological drivers: fire and grazing. Our data indicate that belowground bud banks (populations of meristems associated with rhizomes or other perennating organs) mediate tallgrass prairie plant response. Fire and grazing altered rates of belowground bud natality, tiller emergence from the bud bank, and both short-term (fire cycle) and long-term (> 15 year) changes in bud bank density. Annual burning increased grass bud banks by 25% and decreased forb bud banks by 125% compared to burning every 4 years. Grazing increased the rate of emergence from the grass bud bank resulting in increased grass stem densities while decreasing grass bud banks compared to ungrazed prairie. By contrast, grazing increased both bud and stem density of forbs in annually burned prairie but grazing had no effect on forb bud or stem density in the 4-year burn frequency treatment. Lastly, the size of the reserve grass bud bank is an excellent predictor of long-term ANPP in tallgrass prairie and also of short-term interannual variation in ANPP associated with fire cycles, supporting our hypothesis that ANPP is strongly regulated by belowground demographic processes. Meristem limitation due to management practices such as different fire frequencies or grazing regimes may constrain tallgrass prairie responses to interannual changes in resource availability. An important consequence is that grasslands with a large bud bank may be the most responsive to future climatic change or other global change phenomena such as nutrient enrichment, and may be most resistant to exotic species invasions.
41429067|Impacts of elephants (Loxodonta africana africana) on woody vegetation has attracted substantial attention for decades, but plant-level responses remain a gap in the understanding of savanna ecology. Maruila (Sclerocarya birrea caffra) forms an important part of elephant diets. We investigated the relationships between browsing intensity and shoot/leaf size, nitrogen (N) and condensed tannin (CT) concentrations in upper and lower canopies of male and female manila individuals in Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park, South Africa. Browsing intensity (54%) did not differ between sexes, suggesting no preference by elephants for either sex. Females had higher [CT] than males and tannin decreased with increasing browsing intensity in both sexes. In lightly or moderately browsed trees, [CT] was controlled by unmeasured factors such that within-tree impacts of browsing were more variable in lightly/moderately browsed than heavily browsed trees. There was little change in [N] up to ~60% browsing intensity, but [N] increased dramatically at higher intensity. Shoots and leaves on broken branches in the lower canopy were larger (2.5 and 1.2 times, respectively) than those on unbroken branches in either upper or lower canopies. Chemical responses were systemic and potentially influence browsing among trees, while growth responses were strongly localised and potentially influence browsing within trees. Although manila trees are able to compensate vigorously for browsing at the scale of individual organs, trees may become progressively carbon-deficient and have their lives shortened if total plant growth is negatively affected by chronic browsing, e.g. near permanent water.
20146438| In the Bushbuckridge region of South Africa host preference and density of two woodrose-forming mistletoes, Erianthemum dregei (Eckl. & Zeyh.) V. Tieghem and Pedistylis galpinii (Schinz ex Sprague) was quantified in relation to land-use (harvested or unharvested), rainfall (high &gt 660 or low &lt 660 mm year) and catenal position (top or lower slope). These two mistletoes are generalist hemi-parasites of savanna trees and shrubs occurring on 25 and 17 hosts respectively, seven of which are shared. Thirty-six percent of woody plant species recorded were found to be hosts. Although Sclerocarya birrea (A. Rich.) Hochst. comprised only 4% of woody plant density in the environment, it was the principal host for both mistletoes, accounting for 71% of total E. dregei and 42% of P. galpinii infection. Mistletoe infection relative to density of Ficus stuhlmanii, Trichilia emetica and Cassine transvaalensis indicated that these were preferential hosts to S. birrea. Mistletoe host preference was negatively correlated with host wood density. Mistletoe number per tree had a weak relationship to canopy size. Mistletoes of all size classes were denser at high rainfall relative to low rainfall sites. Interestingly, the overall mistletoe size class distribution was similar between harvested and unharvested sites. The ratio of living to dead mistletoe was 2 to 1 for E. dregei and 1.5 to 1 for P. galpinii. There are sufficient dead mistletoes in unharvested and harvested areas to satisfy present market demand. Living E. dregei predominated in harvested rather than unharvested areas suggesting that current-harvesting levels had little or no negative effect on the population. In contrast, P. galpinii was denser in unharvested areas possibly owing to its higher market value and thus higher harvesting levels. 
20146903|Based on the analysis of 600 vegetation plots using the method of Braun-Blanquet (1964) the composition of the whole vascular forest plant flora with about 1220 species was studied in the forests of Mt. Kilimanjaro. The altitudinal distribution of all strata (trees, shrubs, epiphytes, lianas and herbs) along a transect of 2400 m is discussed with respect to altitudinal zonation and ecological factors. With unidimensionally constraint clustering significant discontinuities were revealed that occurred simultaneously in the different strata. Thus even in structurally highly complex, multilayered tropical montane forests distinct community units exist that can be surveyed and classified by the Braun-Blanquet approach. This observed zonation was significantly correlated with altitude, temperature and soil acidity (pH); rainfall was of importance in particular for the zonation of epiphytes. Other key factors were humidity (influenced by stable cloud condensation belts) and minimum temperature (in particular the occurrence of frost at 2700 m altitude upslope). The contrary results of other transect studies in East Africa in respect to continuity of change in floristic composition appear to be caused by different sampling methods and intensities or mixing of data from areas with different climate conditions, whereas species richness did not influence the clarity of floristic discontinuities on Kilimanjaro and other parts of East Africa.
20146686|The effects of cattle grazing on plant species trait groups were studied by comparing three kinds of mesic seminatural grasslands in southern Finland: old (continuously cattle grazed), new (cattle grazing restarted 3-8 years ago) and abandoned pastures (grazing terminated &gt 10 years ago). Two spatial scales were studied: 1 m and grassland patch (0.25-0.8 ha). Species richness was higher among most species trait groups in old than in abandoned pastures and showed some recovery in new pastures. More pronounced differences were found per m than per grassland patch. Richness of perennial and biennial plants was in order old &gt new &gt abandoned pastures both per m and per grassland patch, but richness of annual plants was significantly higher only per grassland patch. Grazing increased the richness of hemicryptophytes and chamaephytes and decreased that of geophytes both per m and per grassland patch. Richness of small and medium-sized plants was higher in grazed than in abandoned grasslands. Only richness of the tallest species (height &gt 80 cm) was lower in grazed grasslands. The proportion of species trait groups, in which species richness was higher in grazed than in abandoned grasslands, was higher than in previous studies. This may be due largely to the differences in the grassland type (mesic vs. dry or wet). It is proposed that species trait responses to grazing may be related to how effectively natural factors (e.g., drought, flooding) limit plant growth. In mesic grasslands natural factors limit plant growth less than in dry or wet grasslands. Because of this the number of groups of species with different species traits benefitting from grazing is higher in mesic than in dry or wet areas.
40212856|The reproductive success of animaldispersed plants is closely linked to the number of seeds that they are able to disperse. The fruit crop size hypothesis states that a plant with large fruit crop size will attract more dispersers than a plant with a smaller fruit crop, which may result in more seeds being dispersed from the foremost. In this study, we experimentally examined the effect of crop size and other factors on primary seed dispersal in a neotropical shrub/tree, Casearia corymbosa (Flacourtiaceae). We used two predictive variables of reproductive success, which produce an accurate picture of seed dispersal ratio: fruit removal efficiency (proportion of a fruit crop removed by frugivores) and fruit removal success (relative contribution of each individual tree to the number of fruits removed in the population). We established two levels of fruit crop size at the C. corymbosa individuals, using plants with large (150 fruits) and small crops (50 fruits). We found that individual plants with larger crops had significantly higher values of fruit removal efficiency (92.6%) and success (5%) than plants with smaller crops (69.3% and 1.3%, respectively). Fruit removal efficiency was related to vegetation type, plant height and fruit width, but the variance explained by these variables was low (< 8%). Fruit removal success was significantly related to crop size (> 90% of the variance explained). These results suggest that fruit removal efficiency and success are strongly related to fruit crop size of C. corymbosa plants.
20147014|Composition and seasonal patterns of the fern spore bank were compared to the surface vegetation of grasslands on dolomite rock in Hungary. Viability and potential dormancy of spores were tested through storage experiments. Although Asplenium ruta-muraria L. was the only species found at the study sites, five others, probably originating from airborne spores from nearby areas, emerged from the soil samples. Considerable seasonal variability was detected in the number of prothallia emerging from soil samples from different sampling dates, with a peak after spore dispersal. The increased number of emerging prothallia after 1 year of storage suggests that a part of the spores stored in the soil samples were presumably dormant. Investigations on the dormancy of fern spores might be of great interest, especially in species adapted to seasonally unfavourable habitats.
40305646|Secondary succession is an increasing phenomenon due to global changes in agriculture policies and practices. The empirical findings are biased towards the temperate zone. Abandonment of agriculture fields is less frequent in the subtropical and tropical zones where agriculture areas are, in general, expanding. But there are exceptions; a rapid rate of abandonment of agricultural fields have taken place in the arid Jraws-Himalayan region, due to today's globalization of economy. We analysed agriculture fields that were abandoned between 1950 and 2003 in a large u-valley in central Nepal (3400 m a. s. L). The potential forest vegetation is dominated by Pinus wallichina and shrubs of junipers and cotoneaster species. We tested the intermediate richness hypothesis in relation to vegetation cover, soil development and whether old-field succession is convergent or divergent with species data from 242 1 m plots in 5 age-classes. The main species compositional turnover expressed by Detrended Correspondence Analyses (DCA) correlated, as expected, with time after abandonment. Fields that were abandoned a long time ago are closer to forest at the periphery of the agricultural landscape. Moisture of the soil significantly increased with age of abandonment, but total vegetation cover and pH were negatively related to age. Beta diversity expressed in DCA SD-units showed an increasing trend with age of abandonment, supporting the divergence pattern in old-field succession. The reason why the succession is not converging may be due to browsing by domestic animals that prevent a closed canopy of pines and juniper to develop. There was a significant hump-shaped pattern in species richness along the temporal gradient, which agrees with the intermediate species-richness hypothesis. There was a rapid increase in species richness in plots close to the villages that were used for haymaking which increased the seed input significantly.
40305509|Acacia species in arid environments are thought to only establish in years of above-average rainfall, so should exhibit cohorted or pulsed recruitment. I studied population demography of Acacia erioloba Meyer in semi-arid savanna in the Kimberley area (mean annual precipitation = 425  132 mm), South Africa, to establish whether they recruit episodically. This species was found to have a sapling bank at the sites, indicating that even though cohorted recruitment probably occurs, it is not the primary factor limiting recruitment to larger size classes. A. erioloba saplings given supplementary water and protection from herbivory showed significantly less height growth than saplings given water but not protected from herbivores, and grass within exclusion plots was taller and denser than outside of exclusion plots. The generalized linear model, although finding a significant difference between watered and protected and watered and unprotected saplings, explained only 16% of variation in growth, demonstrating the importance of factors other than competition from grass when rainfall is aboveaverage. Average height increase across all treatments for a growing season was small (43.1  30.81 mm), suggesting most investment is belowground. A. erioloba sapling below surface stem diameter correlated positively with aboveground growth, indicating larger, and presumably older, individuals grow faster. When grass was removed around saplings, growth rates were not significantly greater than for saplings surrounded by grass, over a growing season. Thus, in these study sites, pulsed events allow seedlings to establish, and then saplings slowly accumulate over many growing seasons within the grass sward, owing to slow aboveground growth combined with competition from grass in absence of grazers. Release events, e. g., heavy grazing combined with good rainfall, may allow mass release, giving the impression of cohorted or pulsed recruitment.
41508701|The effects of a 10-year period of cattle exclosure on the ground flora and tree regeneration of an Irish ancient lowland wet oakwood (Corylo-Fraxinetum deschampsietosum) community are assessed. The approach was to record changes in a quadrat sample located in a National Nature Reserve and to model change by multivariate statistical analysis using Principal Components Analysis and Redundancy Analysis ordination. Exclosure gave significant increases in the abundance of regenerating ash Fraxinus excelsior and holly Ilex aquifolium. Non-native tree species establishment also occurred. In the ground flora, there were significant decreases in the abundance of ruderal species and grasses and significant increases in graze-resistant and graze-sensitive species usually restricted to broadleaf woodland habitats. Changes were similar under low and high canopy sites, but greater under a high canopy. In Irish lowland wet oakwood, managed historically to favour oak and currently grazed by cattle, exclosure promotes the succession of ash to the canopy and holly to the understorey. With time, this is likely to lead to a shift from oak dominance. In a conservation context this, together with an increased risk of non-native tree species establishment, can be ecologically damaging, particularly in small sites without natural dynamics, as is the case in the hedged agricultural landscapes of western Europe. We conclude that site-based conservation objectives should be prioritised when implementing generic, landscape-scale management strategies, such as rotational exclosure.
40305772|We examined the effects of N addition and rhizome severing on sexual and clonal reproduction and their trade-off in a rhizome clonal grass, Leymus chinensis (Trin.) Tzvel. We discovered that N addition not only greatly increased the quantity and biomass of Leymus chinensis ramets, but also promoted ramet production by increasing the tillers of the plant, while abated the other alternative clonal propagation strategy of rhizome elongation. However, N addition did not affect the rhizome biomass and it significantly reduced the flowering probability, the individual seed mass, and the seed number. Rhizome severing did not markedly affect the quantity and the weight of ramets, the individual seed mass or the seed number, but greatly decreased the rhizome biomass. A significantly negative relation was found between sexual and clonal propagation in Leymus chinensis population upon N addition. We showed that the nutrient availability can modify the sexual versus clonal reproductive trade-off and the clonal propagation strategy. Intense ramet production characteristics of clonal growth will largely affect the sexual reproductive capacity and intensify intraclonal competition, thereby influencing their genetic diversity, spatial colonizing ability and life history strategy.
20050900|Forest edges are known to consist of microenvironments that may provide habitat for a different suite of species than forest interiors. Several abiotic attributes of the microenvironment may contribute to this change across the edge to center gradient (e.g., light, air temperature, soil moisture, humidity). Biotic components, such as seed dispersal, may also give rise to changes in species composition from forest edge to interior. We predicted that abiotic and biotic measures would correlate with distance from forest edge and would differ among aspects. To test these predictions, we measured abiotic and biotic variables on twelve 175 m transects in each of two 24 ha forest fragments in east-central Illinois that have remained in continuous isolation for upwards of 100 years. Both univariate and multivariate techniques were used to best describe the complex relationships among abiotic factors and between abiotic and biotic factors. Results indicate that microclimatic variables differ in the degree to and distance over which they show an edge effect. Relative humidity shows the widest edge, while light and soil moisture have the steepest gradients. Aspect influences are evidenced by the existence of more pronounced edge effects on south and west edges, except when these edges are protected by adjacent habitat. Edges bordered by agricultural fields have more extreme changes in microclimate than those bordered by trees. According to PCA results, species richness correlates well with microclimatic variation, especially light and soil moisture; however, in many cases species richness had a different depth of edge influence than either of these variables. The herbaceous plant community is heavily dominated by three species. Distributions of individual species as well as changes in plant community composition, estimated with a similarity index, indicate that competition may be influencing the response of the vegetation to the edge to interior gradient. This study indicates that edge effects must be considered when the size and potential buffering habitat of forest preserves are planned.
20146340|We examined the seed rain throughout a twelve month period in a lowland tropical forest in Cameroon, West Africa, 1996-97. Traps (0.5 m, n = 216) were erected throughout a 25 km area in 24 randomly placed clusters of nine traps each. Fruits and seeds that landed in traps were collected every 7-10 days and classified by species and dispersal type. More than 32,000 seeds from approximately 200 species fell into the traps, an average of 297 seeds m yr Thirty species represent 82% of the total seed rain while an additional 175 species comprise the remaining 18%. When we compared the adult community to the seed rain community within the same plots, we found no apparent correlation between seed rain patterns and adult community structure for this year of study. Furthermore, only 49% of the adult tree community produced and dispersed seed into traps in this year. More than 100 species (52%) found in the seed rain represented long-distance immigrant seed rain. Seed rain was highly variable at several scales, both spatially and seasonally, although seeds arrived in traps during each collection period. Cluster analyses showed that traps within plots were seldom more similar to one another than traps between plots. While 82% of the tree species in the community are thought to be animal dispersed, only 28% of all seeds that fell into traps had been obviously "handled" (bitten, chewed, or passed) by animals. Tests for fruit and seed removal by predators or dispersers found 5% or less removal rate from traps.
40212865|This paper provides an analysis of genetic variability in local populations of the clonal moss Pleurochaete squarrosa, a Mediterranean moss typical of post-fire recovery, and characterised by asexual reproduction. ISSR (Internal Simple Sequence Repeats) primers and
41508841|It is well established that plants and soil properties are interdependent. What is less known is the degree to which the distribution of plant and soil properties, in both space and time, match one another. We assessed plant community and soil conditions in permanent sample plots in a tallgrass prairie community from 2002 to 2008. Redundancy analysis showed that the dominant grass species were associated with changes in elevation, soil pH, and gravimetric water content, but not nitrogen or phosphate. Indicator species analysis suggested the community is best described by four cluster types, with half of the plots changing community type over the 6-year sampling period. These cluster types were generally spatially aggregated, with semivariograms showing a range from 80 to 346 m. This degree of spatial structuring was observed in the elevation and soil water content data, but not in measures of soil inorganic N or P. This suggests that natural plant communities do not necessarily show a strong correspondence to all soil variables, especially those that vary rapidly in time and space. The dynamic nature of vegetation patch distribution, combined with their size, may contribute to the loss of species from small tallgrass prairie reserves.
40212854|Although zonation patterns of the standing vegetation along a water depth gradient in wetlands have been well described, few studies have explored whether such patterns also occur in the seed bank. This study examined patterns of the seed bank along a water depth gradient in three vegetation types (submerged zone, floatingleaved zone, and emergent zone) of a subtropical lakeshore marsh, Longgan Lake, China. Submerged zone is the deepest water and never exposed its soil to air, and was dominant by submerged species; floating-leaved zone is waterlogged soil even during drawdown and was dominant by Nelwnbo nucifera; emergent zone is rarely exceeded 1 m water depth during the wet season (summer and autumn), and the marsh soil was usually exposed to air during drawdown (winter and spring), and is dominant by Zizania latifolia, Polygonum hydropiper and Scirpus yagara. It was found that many species were ubiquitous in the seed bank. Frequency of distribution and densities of the dominant species, however, varied significantly from zone to zone. A total of 22 species was recorded in submerged zone, 20 in floating-leaved zone, and 29 in emergent zone. Germinated seedling density was 1,580, 8,994 and 20,424 seedlings m in submerged zone, floatingleaved zone, and emergent zone, respectively. Submerged and floating-leaved species were significantly abundant in the submerged zone, while the emergent species were found predominantly in the emergent zone. A fern species, Ceratopsis pterioides, was the most abundant seedling in seed banks from all three zones. A TWINSPAN dendrogram and CCA ordination diagram clearly showed separation of species among sites with the emergent zone being well separated from the submerged zone and floating-leaved zone, thus revealing marked zonal patterns in species distributions in the seed bank. This pattern of zonation reflected the pattern in the standing vegetation.
40305424|In order to reduce flood risk, river management policies advise floodplain restoration and the recreation of water retention areas. These measures may also offer opportunities for the restoration of species-rich floodplain habitats through rewetting and the restoration of flood dynamics. The potential to enhance biodiversity in such flood restoration areas is, however, still subject to debate. In this paper we investigate whether flooding along a small altered lowland river can contribute to the potential and realised species richness of semi-natural meadows. We compare the seed bank and vegetation composition of flooded and non-flooded semi-natural meadows and test the hypothesis that flooding contributes to an input of diaspores into the meadow seed banks, thereby promoting seed density and potential species richness. Furthermore we hypothesise that, where habitat conditions are suitable, flooding leads to a higher realised species richness. Results showed that seed densities in flooded meadows were significantly higher than in non-flooded meadows. The seed banks of flooded meadows also contained a higher proportion of exclusively hydrochorous species. However, the seed bank species richness, as well as the species richness realised in the vegetation did not differ significantly between flooded and non-flooded meadows. Finally, the seed bank and standing vegetation of flooded sites showed larger differences in species composition and Ellenberg nitrogen distribution than non-flooded sites. From these results we conclude that, although flooding does contribute to the density and composition of the seed bank, most imported seeds belong to only a few species. Therefore, it is unlikely that flooding substantially enhances the potential species richness. Furthermore, even if new species are imported as seeds into the seed bank, it seems unlikely that they would be able to establish in the standing vegetation. However, it is unclear which factors impede the establishment of imported species in the vegetation. The implications of our findings for flood meadow restoration are discussed.
41508673|Data on 386 species with fire-stimulated flowering (fsf) in Australasia and South Africa/Madagascar were collated to show that they occur under a wide range of fire regimes, with 71% confined to the mediterranean-climate regions. About 40% only flower up to 2 years after fire (obligate), while the rest continue at a low rate until the next fire (facultative). Peak flowering occurs 5-18 months after fire in the mediterranean regions but at 1-7 months in savannas. Fsf is recorded in 34 families, headed by terrestrial orchids (45% of species), spread throughout the seedplant phylogeny from cycads to daisies. Tuberous geophytes (essentially orchids) dominate (51%), but other resprouting growth forms include lignotuberous shrubs and forbs, rhizomatous and bunch grasses, leaf succulents, grasstrees, epicormic trees, and hemiparasites. Most have wind-dispersed diaspores (72%), store their diaspores in the soil (93%), and seeds that do not germinate until the next fire (72%). Fsf in association with resprouting takes advantage of optimal resources and minimal competition for growth and reproduction, conditions that favor wind dispersal and maximize the interval for seed accumulation before the next fire and build-up of fire-tolerant organs. Reduced herbivory has little role in accounting for its benefits. The proximal causes of fsf center around cueing factors (direct effects such as ethylene), resource factors (direct and indirect effects, e.g., extra nutrients), and predisposing factors (circumstantial effects, e.g., fire interval). The evolutionary history of fsf has been explored recently in orchids, proteas, blood roots, droseras, and mistletoes and shown to stretch back over a period of at least 50 million years, indicating that flowering in many groups has a long association with fire as an agent of natural selection.
20146649|Factors that set the altitudinal limits of plants have been relatively well explored for many land plant groups, but not for bryophytes. Bryophytes typically represent a significant portion of alpine floras with many species specific to highland systems. Differences between highland and lowland bryophytes have been underinvestigated. In the present study spanning three growing seasons, a subalpine and a lowland moss were both reciprocally planted as apical fragments and transplanted as adults between sites at 1400 m and 2000 m in the Front Ranges of the Rocky Mountains, Alberta. The lowland species, Mnium spinulosum, was less tolerant of conditions at 2000 m than the subalpine species, M. arizonicum, was to conditions at 1400 m. In particular, M. spinulosum had lower establishment from both apical fragments and spores at higher elevation sites. Both species had significantly lower establishment during the abnormally cold growing season of 1999, but fragments of M. arizonicum were better able to adjust their investment in establishment. The effect of a dominant feather moss, Hylocomium splendens, on establishment and transplant health was tested for M. arizonicum. Establishment of M. arizonicum was lower in Hylocomium mats than on bare humus regardless of site elevation suggesting allelopathy; however, stem survival in adult transplants was higher in Hylocomium mats than in Mnium dominated microsites at the higher elevation suggesting facilitation. Competition, rather than a lack of physiological plasticity, probably determines the lower elevation limit of the subalpine moss, while poor establishment ability at low temperatures accounts for the upper elevation limit of the montane moss.
20050931|We compared the invasibility of riparian plant communities high on river banks with those on floodplain floors for four South African rivers. Analyses of abundant and significant riparian species showed that the floors have 3.1 times more exotic plants than the banks. The percent exotics ranges from 5% to 11% of total species richness for the banks, and from 20% to 30% for the floors. Species richness and percent exotics are negatively correlated for the banks, but not correlated for the floors. Despite great differences in climate, species richness, and landuse history, the percentages of exotic plants in three rivers in the Pacific Northwest of the USA and one river in southwestern France are similar to those in South Africa (24-30% vs. 20-30%, respectively). Furthermore, the high proportions of exotic species in these riparian plant communities are comparable to those reported for vascular plant communities on islands. We conclude that the macro-channel floor regions of the riparian zones of South African rivers are highly vulnerable to invasion by exotic vascular plants.
20146969|Tropical mangrove forests are characterized by clear zonation along a tidal gradient, and it has been supposed that the zonation is primarily controlled by soil factors. However, effects of disturbance on mangrove forests are still not well understood and may play an important role on the vegetation patterns and forest dynamics in some forest formations. In this study, the pattern of disturbance regime and its effects on regeneration of tropical mangrove forests along a tidal gradient were investigated in Ranong, Thailand. We established one or two 0.5 ha plots in four vegetation zones, i.e. Sonneratia alba-Avicennia alba zone, Rhizophora apiculata zone, Ra -- Bruguiera gymnorrhiza zone, Ceriops tagal-Xylocarpus spp. zone. Gap size (percentage gap area to total study area and individual gap size) was the largest in Sa-Aa zone which is located on the most seaward fringe, and it declined from seaward to inland. Canopy trees of S. alba and A. alba had stunted trunks and showed low tree density. On the contrary, canopy dominants in the other three inland zones, e.g. R. apiculata, B. gymnorrhiza, and Xylocarpus spp., had slender trunks and showed high tree density. Accordingly, differences in disturbance regime among the four zones were resulted from the forest structural features of each zone. Disturbance regime matched with regeneration strategies of canopy dominants. Seedlings and saplings of S. alba and A. alba, which need sunny condition for their growth, were abundant in gaps than in understorey. By contrast, R. apiculata, B. gymnorrhiza, and Xylocarpus spp., which can tolerate less light than S. alba and A. alba, had greater seedling and sapling density under closed canopy than gaps. Many large gaps may enhance the abundance of S. alba and A. alba in Sa-Aa zone, and a few small gaps may prevent the light demanding species to establish and grow in the other inland zones. Correspondence of disturbance regime and regeneration strategies (e.g. light requirement) of canopy dominants may contribute to the maintenance of the present species composition in each of the vegetation zones.
40926911|Detailed information on 38 species and 26 environmental variables was recorded from a network of 86 permanent plots across a geographical range of 10 km, in order to determine the patterns of floristic composition in Quercus-dominated forests; to elucidate environmental differentiation in such forests; and to determine whether species are partitioning their environment. To examine likely patterns of floristic composition, a data matrix expressed as relative volume + relative density was used to run non-metric multidimensional scaling. Canonical correspondence analysis extracted the environmental variation that best correlates with the observed patterns of floristic composition. Our results indicate that congeneric Quercus individuals represent the largest proportion of the species pool in the study plots. They coexist with other species having similar ecological requirements in at least three distinct floristic groups. Examination of the two largest groups and their species compositions reveals that one floristic gradient runs across the most xeric zone of the study area, and the second major floristic gradient runs across a mesic zone. The most important environmental variable explaining the observed patterns of floristic composition is altitude, although partial canonical correspondence analysis suggests that micro-habitat heterogeneity (catena position and canopy maturity) was most significant.
20051357|Ecologists have long speculated that species with wider environmental ranges would have broader ranges in phenotype; however, most tests of this hypothesis have involved small numbers of species and/or closely related taxa. We related phenotypic variation in twelve salt marsh plant species from six families to variation in four environmental variables using multiple regression. Within species, plant phenotype was predictably related to environmental variation. Salinity was the most common predictor of plant traits, followed by organic content, water content and elevation. Across species, regressions of single plant trait CVs on range (2  SD) of single environmental variables were not significant and did not support the hypothesis that species occupying broad environmental ranges would have broad ranges in phenotypes. However, regression of a composite phenotypic PCA1 on a composite environmental PCA1 showed a marginally significant (P = 0.054) linear relationship for 10 species. Considering the different patterns of response across species, the lack of a relationship between variation in single phenotypic traits and single environmental variables is likely because the distantly-related taxa employed fundamentally different morphological and physiological strategies to respond to environmental stress gradients. The significant relationship between composite environmental and phenotypic variables reflects the complex nature of species phenotypic response to multivariate environmental gradients. Specifically, in this system, species increase variation in the number of leaves, but decrease variation in leaf size in response to an increase in range of salinity and decrease in range of water and organic content.
41508790|Viewing species-area curves in the context of the different life forms that generate them might be instructive for understanding why high species density develops in some plant communities. In order to evaluate the patterns of species density in an Australian temperate eucalypt woodland community, we used speciesarea curves and document rate of species accumulation by life forms in six nested plots ranging in size from 1 m to 0.1 ha at 13 woodland sites. Mean total species density was 82  3.8 species at 0.1 ha scales (range 49-104 species), making them amongst the most diverse woodlands in Australia at these spatial scales. Speciesarea relationships for total species were best described by power function models (loglog linear) with slopes (z) ranging from 0.12 to 0.35 (mean = 0.17  0.02). When species were analysed by life form, speciesarea relationships were similarly welldescribed by the power function for all life forms, although their slopes differed significantly; annuals had the lowest slope and woody species the highest. Annuals and perennial herb species density were equal at the smallest spatial scales (mean 11.7 and 11.5 species/m, respectively) and hence, both life forms help generate high small scale species density. Smallscale total species density, but not individual life form, was a significant predictor of largerscale total species density (r = 0.36, P = 0.03). Our findings suggest that high species density may be a general property of temperate eucalypt woodlands with herbaceous understoreys and that the mechanisms that underpin these patterns require further study.
20051157|Retama sphaerocarpa (L.) Boiss. is a Mediterranean shrub with a remarkably simplified metameric structure. Terminal youngest shoots act as units of modular growth, being able to produce new shoots by basal axillary buds (at the base of the shoot) and inflorescences by lateral axillary buds. In this study, we have analysed the structural and growth potential features of these modules, as well as their 'demographic' proportions, regarding the allocation of new vegetative and reproductive growth in plants of different age. Reproductive effort is proportionally higher in older plants. This shift in the allocation strategy with plant ontogeny is not attained with changes in the shoot modules (which maintain a constant size, nutrient composition and show a similar new growth investment per module) but through a different 'demographic' composition of the 'population' of modules according to their developmental fate (vegetative or reproductive). This indicates a high level of iterativity and a purely modular growth, since the attributes of the individual (age of the plants) do not seem to affect those of the integrating modular units (growth performance of the shoots).
20146926| The chemical composition of rainwater is altered upon its passage through tree canopies. In order to investigate how rainwater chemistry is affected by canopy-dependent processes in characteristics forest types of Northwest German sandy lowland regions -- oak-birch-forests, Betula pubescens Ehrh. swamp forests, and stands of Pinus sylvestris L. -- comparative studies on the chemical composition of throughfall were carried out at seven forest sites, situated in close proximity within a nature reserve. Additionally, rainwater was sampled at three heathland sites for analysis of open-field precipitation and at three sites along on oak - birch-forest edge. Throughfall concentrations of most of the parameters analysed were significantly higher than open-field concentrations, especially with regard to electric conductivity, NH-N, K, and KMnO-index. Ion concentrations in throughfall were the lowest in a 10-year-old stand of Betula pendula Roth. and Pinus sylvestris and in a Betula pubescens swamp forest and were highest beneath a stand of Pinus sylvestris. Except for Na, Cl, and
20051217|Burr Medic (Medicago polymorpha) is a widespread, polymorphic annual legume of Mediterranean origin, and as a self-reseeding, highly effective nitrogen fixer it has important value in various dryland farming systems. In central Chile, it is naturalized along a 1000 km long environmental gradient, from an arid zone (29-31 S) to a perhumid one (37-3824' S). Comparative and experimental studies of its ecotypic differentiation patterns along this gradient should be useful in elucidating the evolutionary forces at work along environmental gradients, and also for efforts to select annual legumes for pastures and fallow field improvement in mediterranean climate areas. In this first paper of a two-part series, we present results of two common-environment experiments conducted at a subhumid site in central Chile to compare vegetative and reproductive traits in 69 populations of Burr Medic collected in 1988 and 1994. Multivariate analyses based on 11 phenological and agronomic characters, including phenology and biomass accumulation, winter vigour and degree of hard-seededness, showed that three principal components (PCs) explained nearly 70% of total variability, in both collections. For the larger collection (1988), the diagram of dispersion for the first two PCs -- phenology, winter vigour and above-ground biomass -- provided good discrimination between accessions from arid-semiarid and humid-perhumid mediterranean zones. Onset of flowering was positively correlated with both latitude and longitude, as well as mean annual precipitation/potential evapotranspiration (PP/ETP) of collecting site; days from first flower to pod ripening was negatively correlated with PP/ETP. In contrast to reports from Syria and Sardinia, no clear trends in Burr Medic seed or pod-related traits was found along the Chilean gradient, apart from the concentration of spiny pod accessions in the southern, more mesic end of the gradient. Winter vigour (according to a semi-quantitative analysis of growth) was greater in accessions from the warmer, arid and semiarid zones than in those from cooler, subhumid to humid ones. Both winter vigour and harvest index were negatively correlated with days to first flower. Applied and evolutionary aspects of the results are briefly discussed.
40305665|Clonal architecture may enable plants to effectively respond to environmental constraints but its role in plant tolerance to defoliation remains poorly documented. In several non-clonal species, modifications of plant architecture have been reported as a mechanism of plant tolerance to defoliation, yet this has been little studied in clonal plants. In a glasshouse experiment, five rhizomatous and five stoloniferous species of grazed pastures were subjected to three frequencies of defoliation in order to test two hypotheses. (1) We expected plant clonal response to defoliation to be either a more compact architecture (low clonal propagation, but high branching), or a more dispersed one (long-distance propagation and low branching). Such plastic adjustments of clonal architecture were assumed to be involved in tolerance to defoliation i. e. to promote genet performance in terms of biomass and number of ramets. (2) The response of clonal architecture to defoliation was expected to be dependent on the species and to be more plastic in stoloniferous than in rhizomatous species. Most genets of each species were tolerant to defoliation as they survived and developed in every treatment. Architectural modifications in response to defoliation did not match our predictions. Clonal growth was either maintained or reduced under defoliation. Relative growth rate (RGR) decreased in eight species, whereas defoliated genets of seven species produced as many ramets as control genets. Biomass allocation to ramet shoots remained stable for all but one species. In defoliated genets, the number and mean length of connections, and mean inter-ramet distance were equal to or lower than those in control genets. Four groups of species were distinguished according to their architectural response to defoliation and did not depend on the type of connections. We hypothesised that dense clonal architectures with low plasticity may be the most advantageous response in defoliated conditions such as in grazed pastures.
20146920|The interactions between Persea borbonia (redbay), its psyllid leaf gallers, and its seed predators were examined in field conditions using natural differences in light levels in order to determine (a) the distribution of galls relative to light availability, (b) the relationship between galls and plant growth and reproductive traits and (c) the relationship between gallers and seed predators. Galls were more abundant in shade than sun across sites. This finding is consistent with the Sink Competition Hypothesis, which predicts higher gall loads on plants with longer internodes (as those in shade) and hence less competition among sinks. Galled leaves were smaller and senesced more rapidly, and galled shoots grew less. In the sun, galled branches produced fewer flowers, but there was ultimately no relationship between gall load and seed production in the year sampled. Gall load was not correlated with seed predation in sun or shade, suggesting no indirect interactions between herbivores. This work suggests that gall insects negatively affect plant growth and reproduction, but manipulative experiments must be conducted to confirm this. Additionally, this study suggests that relationships between leaf gall load and plant fitness traits may not be clearly regulated by the availability of sunlight resources to the plant.
40305494|Sex ratio, size, age, and spatial pattern were investigated for males and females of the dioecious shrub Ceratiola ericoides ericoides (Empetraceae) Michx. within seven mapped populations in Georgia and South Carolina, USA. Among the sites studied, two are regularly burned and one site long-unburned. Age was estimated from node counts of individual shrubs. Only one (fire-suppressed) population showed a female-biased sex ratio, while all others did not differ significantly from 1:1. Mean age estimates did not differ between sexes at any site nor did mean shrub canopy diameter. Bivariate Ripley's K analysis with a null hypothesis of random labeling was used to investigate whether any of the mapped populations exhibited spatial segregation of the sexes (SSS). No population showed strong evidence of SSS. Rather all sites but one showed males and females to be associated (though not significantly) at a scale of 1-10 m. At a scale of 10-35 m male and female shrubs were located randomly with respect to one another at all sites.
40305493|Stipa-species are wide-spread in Central Asia, but sexual reproduction in the dry steppes is rare. To facilitate conservation and restoration of these important rangelands, we studied germination characteristics of three common Mongolian Stipa-species under field- and lab conditions. Seeds of Stipa krylovii, Stipa gobica and Stipa glareosa were sown at the study site in Southern Mongolia over two consecutive years during which period tests were carried out to ascertain whether competition or herbivory are the main constraints of seedling establishment. In addition, we tested germination and seed viability in the laboratory under two different temperature regimes (20/10C and 8/4C), as well as the effect of cold-stratification. The lab experiments also included S. krylovii seeds originating from three climatically different provenances. None of the three Stipa-specics seedlings emerged during the first 2 years of the field study. However, after an unusually intense rain event in the third year, 3% of S. krylovii, 0.6% of S. glareosa and 0.1% of S. gobica seeds germinated in the study plots. The factors 'sowing-year' and 'vegetation' significantly affected seedling emergence, whereas grazing had no effect at all. Under laboratory conditions a high percentage of viable seeds of S. gobica and S. glareosa germinated at both incubation temperatures, and cold-stratification had no effect on germination or viability. Germination of S. krylovii seeds required warmer temperatures and cold-stratification had a positive effect. Such evidence for dormancy was more pronounced in seeds from the moister, northern provenances. Germination of Stipa-species in the field is rare and only possible under exceptionally moist conditions. Conservation should thus concentrate on steppe conservation rather than on restoration. Where artificial reseeding is necessary, differences among species and also among different seed provenances should be taken into account.
40305788|Many examples of plant-insect interactions have shown that selection from herbivores can act on flowering and fruiting phenology. In Ulex europaeus (Fabaceae), escaping seed predation resulted in extended, but variable flowering periods, with some plants flowering from autumn until spring and others flowering only in spring. The present study aims at understanding how gorses can have a high reproductive success during winter despite harsh climatic conditions and low number of pollinators. We measured pollen production, flower size and seed production in spring and winter, and compared the different seasons. The pollination success of flowers was high in both seasons. The flowers produced as much pollen, and were of comparable size in spring and winter, but they stayed open twice as long in winter than in spring. The high pollination rate we observed was thus due to the longer opening period of flowers and the high attractiveness of flowers during winter. However, pod abortion was higher in winter, with 43% of the flowers in winter and 75% in spring producing ripe pods. Antagonistic selective pressures exerted by biotic and abiotic interactions may, therefore, have lead to the observed flowering polymorphism, and allow U. europaeus to thrive in various climates, thus, increasing its invasiveness in different countries.
40305466|Castanea sativa Mill, is an important species of the Balkan Peninsula with high ecological and economic value. This article contributes to a phytosociological synsystematic approach of the C. sativa plant communities in Greece that covers the southern part of the Balkan Peninsula and describes the ecological parameters involved in their distribution and taxonomy. Phytosociological data have been collected from 14 mountainous areas across continental Greece, which are considered representative of the main forest types of C. sativa in the area. The 14 mountains demonstrate a variety of environmental conditions. Five communities (associations) and seven sub-communities (sub-associations) have been identified and described using TWINSPAN, Corespondence Analysis and the Braun-Blanquet classification scheme. Castanea sativa (chestnut) forests of Greece can be distinguished as three broad groups, defined primarily by their geographical distribution. In northern and central Greece chestnut stands are characterized by their high floristic homogeneity, which is reflected in the identification of only one community per region. Chestnut forests in northern Greece, in particular, exhibit strong floristic similarities with those of the rest of the Balkans. In southern Greece, on the other hand, the southern distribution limit of chestnut in the Balkans, there is a greater floristic diversity between the sampled mountains which is reflected in the presence of three confirmed communities and two sub-associations. Several factors have been identified as important in determining the structure and floristic composition of chestnut forests in Greece. Whilst climate and the grazing regime are influential, the degree of silvicultural management appears to be the most important factor determining the floristic composition of chestnut forests and their long-term sustainability.
41508649|The lack of long-term records of productivity is a critical limitation to the study of ecosystem dynamics. Annual rings, a measure of growth in woody species, are a useful tool to document ecosystem dynamics. Time series of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) provide estimates of ecosystem productivity through satellitederived data on the fraction of photosynthetic active radiation absorbed by vegetation. In the Patagonian steppes, we relate changes in NDVI to interannual variations in the radial growth of the shrub Anarthrophyllum rigidum. A widely distributed network of 15 ring-width chronologies of A. rigidum was used to estimate changes in NDVI across the Patagonia steppe (35-50S). In most sites, interannual variations in shrub growth and NDVI are regulated by winter precipitation. The water accumulated in the soil during winter is used by A. rigidum during the growing season, concurrent with the maximum NDVI values. At 10 from the 15 selected sites, variations in the radial growth of A. rigidum explained between 23 and 62% of the total variance in seasonal NDVI, suggesting that the A. rigidum growth at some sites provides good estimates of productivity in the Patagonian shrubby steppes during the growing season. However, we were unable to determine clear relationships between radial growth and NDVI at high-elevation mountainous sites or where intensive grazing by sheep masked the effect of climate variability on shrub growth. We conclude that dendrochronological methods can complement other estimates to reconstruct variations of productivity, supplementing and extending the few short records available in the Patagonian steppe.
41412361|Seasonal resource availability may act as a constraint on plant phenology and thereby influence the range of growth responses observed among populations of annual species, especially those occupying a wide range of environments. We compared a mesic and a xeric population of the non-native, annual grass, Bromus tectorum, to examine phenology in response to interspecific competition and water availability. Using a target-neighborhood approach, we assessed how phenological patterns of the two populations affected morphological and growth responses to enhanced resource availability represented by lateseason soil moisture. The xeric population exhibited a highly constrained phenology and was unable to extend the growing season despite available soil resources. Because of the low phenotypic variation, allocation to reproduction was similar across resource conditions. In contrast, the mesic population flowered later and showed a more opportunistic phenology in response to late-season water availability. The mesic population was not able to maintain consistent reproductive allocation at low resource levels. The responses of the two populations to late-season water availability were not affected by the density of neighboring plants. We suggest that post-introduction selection pressure on B. tectorum in the xeric habitat has resulted in a more fixed phenology which limits opportunistic response to unpredictable, particularly late-season resource availability. Opportunistic and fixed responses represent contrasting strategies for optimizing fitness in temporally varying environments and, while both play important roles for ensuring reproductive success, these results suggest that local adaptation to temporal resource variation may reflect a balance between flexible and inflexible phenology.
41508787|In order to provide a baseline for management decisions, we evaluated vegetation heterogeneity among 38 remnant grasslands located on high agronomic potential soils along a five degree-eastwest transect in the cropping Pampa. This extensive region has been cultivated for well over a century, small-scale traditional forms of agriculture were progressively replaced with large-scale industrial forms and its cropped area has more than doubled in the last 25 years, threatening the maintenance of biodiversity associated to productive soils. We characterized the diversity of this grassland patches, identified its main environmental drivers and searched for factors that favor their invasion by exotic plant species. Vegetation samples were analysed through Canonical Correspondence Analysis, proportional distribution of functional groups was compared and regression models were estimated to identify variables associated with exotic species importance. Water availability, determined by climate and soil characteristics, was the main driving factor of floristic heterogeneity in these grasslands. Exotic richness, mostly of Eurasian species, increases toward the east, related to proximity to the entrance port. The functional group of C native grasses seems to be responsible for biotic resistance to invasion. More than 80% of the species recorded during the first vegetation registers in 1930 are still present, while the number of exotics was seven-fold increased. Despite covering small areas as isolated stands, these are hot spots of native biodiversity and must be the object of increasing attention for conservation and restoration in order to protect the biodiversity of an extensive agricultural landscape.
40305796|Floodplain grasslands are often composed of a mosaic of plant communities controlled by hydrological regime. This article examines the sensitivity of floodplain grassland plant communities to water regime using reciprocal transplantation of an inundation grassland and a flood-meadow within an English floodplain. Experimental treatments comprised control, transplanted and lifted plots; the last treatment, in order to elucidate any disturbance effects of transplantation. Plant community response was analysed using species abundance and their ecological traits. Results from both communities showed substantial annual variations related to hydrology, including significant species changes, but generally, vegetation seemed to be responding to drier conditions following a major flood event. This 'drying' trend was characterised by increased species diversity, a greater abundance of competitive species and fewer typical wetland plants. Transplanted community composition increasingly resembled receptor sites and transplant effects were most pronounced the first year after treatment for both vegetation types. Differential responses to water regime were detected for the two plant communities. The inundation grassland community was particularly dynamic with a composition that rapidly reflected drying conditions following the major flood, but transplantation into a drier flood-meadow site prompted little additional change. The flood-meadow community appeared more resistant to postinundation drying, but was sensitive to increased wetness caused by transplantation into inundation grassland, which significantly reduced six species while none were significantly favoured. The effects of disturbance caused by lifting the transplants were limited in both communities, although five species showed significant annual fluctuations. The study shows that small alterations in water regime can prompt rapid vegetation changes and significant plant species responses in floodplain grasslands, with effects probably magnified through competitive interactions. The dynamic properties of floodplain vegetation demonstrated by this study suggest that its classification, management and monitoring are challenging and ideally should be based on long-term studies.
41508755|Hydraulic redistribution (HR), the nocturnal transport of moisture by plant roots from wetter to drier portions of the root zone, in general can buffer plants against seasonal water deficits. However, its role in longer droughts and its long-term ecological impact are not well understood. Based on numerical model experiments for the Amazon forest, this modeling study indicates that the impact of HR on plant growth differs between droughts of different time scales. While HR increases transpiration and plant growth during regular dry seasons, it reduces dry season transpiration and net primary productivity (NPP) under extreme droughts such as those during El Nio years in the Amazon forest. This occurs because, in places where soil water storage is not able to sustain the ecosystem through the dry season, the HR-induced acceleration of moisture depletion in the early stage of the dry season reduces water availability for the rest of the dry season and causes soil moisture to reach the wilting point earlier. This gets exacerbated during extreme droughts, which jeopardizes the growth of trees that are not in dry season dormancy, i.e., evergreen trees. As a result, the combination of drought and HR increases the percentage of drought deciduous trees at the expense of evergreen trees, and the fractional coverage of forest canopy is characterized by sudden drops following extreme droughts and slow recovery afterwards. The shift of the tropical forest towards more drought deciduous trees as a result of the combined effects of extreme drought and HR has important implications for how vegetation will respond to future climate changes.
20146974|Major demographic processes in Spartocytisus supranubius, an endemic shrub dominant in the alpine zone of Tenerife, Canary Islands, were studied by a combination of dendrochronological and demographical techniques. Dendrochronological data were used to estimate growth rates of adult shrubs, frequency of fragmentation of shrubs by clonal growth, mortality, and seedling establishment. Isozymes were used to identify the extent of clonal growth in the species. The data collected were used to construct population projection matrices and to identify the role of generative reproduction vs. clonal growth in the life cycle of the species. Both isozymes and morphological analysis showed that the shrub is capable of clonal growth, but its contribution to the variation in the growth rate is much smaller than that of generative reproduction. The current population dynamics of the shrub seem to be strongly affected by rabbit grazing of seedlings, which controls effective establishment of young shrubs. Analysis of data from enclosures shows that rabbit removal would lead to rapid population growth of the species. Transition matrices showed that Spartocytisus supranubius populations currently are likely decreasing; this contrasts with the rapid increase over the past 40 years shown by historical aerial photographs. The stage structure of the shrub is far from equilibrium, indicating that the dynamics are driven by rare establishment events; dendrochronological analysis identified a peak in regeneration around 1980; this can be attributes to a combination of cessation of management in the caldera and to a series of wet years in that period.
20146819|River oases at the southern fringe of the Taklamakan desert in NW China are surrounded by belts of spontaneous vegetation that protect the oases from sand drift. As an important source of forage, fuel and construction wood, this foreland vegetation is also a component part of the agricultural system of the oases but has been, and still is, destroyed through overuse. Within a broader study that aimed to provide a basis for a sustainable management of this foreland vegetation, biomass and production were studied in four vegetation types dominated either by Alhagi sparsifolia, Calligonum caput-medusae, Populus euphratica, or Tamarix ramosissima that were thought to occur under different regimes of natural flooding in the foreland of Qira (Cele) oasis, Xinjiang, NW China. Shoot biomass components were closely correlated to basal area (Calligonum, Populus, Tamarix) or shrub volume and projection area (Alhagi), enabling non-destructive estimation of stand biomass from shoot diameters or shrub dimensions with sufficient precision using allometric regression equations. Relationships between shoot basal area and biomass of the woody species (Calligonum, Populus and Tamarix) agreed with predictions by a theoretical model of plant vascular systems, suggesting that they are determined by hydraulic and mechanical requirements for shoot architecture. Average aboveground biomass densities of typical stands in late summer were 2.97 Mg/ha in Alhagi, 3.6 Mg/ha in a row plantation and 10.9 Mg/ha in homogenous stands of Calligonum, 22-29 Mg/ha in 22 year-old Populus forests and 1.9-3.1 Mg/ha in Tamarix-dominated vegetation. Annual aboveground production including wood and assimilation organs ranged from 2.11 to 11.3 Mg/ha in plantations of Calligonum, 3.17 to 6.12 Mg/ha in Populus, and 1.55 to 1.74 Mg/ha (based on total ground area) or 3.10 to 7.15 Mg/ha (in homogenous stands) in Tamarix. Production of Alhagi is equal to peak biomass. A thinning treatment simulating use by the local population enhanced productivity of Calligonum, Populus and Tamarix. A complete harvest of Alhagi in late August decreased production in the following year. An artificial flood irrigation treatment did not sufficiently increase soil water content except in the uppermost layer and had no clear beneficial effect on growth of the four species and even a negative effect on Alhagi, which was due to increased competition from annual species. As biomass and production with or without artificial irrigation were much higher than values expected for rain-fed desert vegetation at a mean annual precipitation of 35 mm, it is concluded that the existence of all vegetation types studied is probably based on permanent access to groundwater and that natural floods or precipitation do not contribute to their water supply. The effects of agricultural groundwater use in the oasis on groundwater in the foreland of the oasis need further study. Sustainable use of this productive vegetation is possible but requires proper management.
41508704|Under natural conditions the overlapping of multiple Stressors may initiate coordinated ecophysiological responses in Mediterranean species. Seasonal plasticity may enable plants to better cope with adverse environmental conditions and/or resource variability. In this article, we study the seasonal responses of 12 woody species in two sites of differing water availability, in a Mediterranean-type climate. Plants were measured for water potential, photochemical efficiency, photosynthetic pigments and leaf proline content throughout the year. The results revealed that species presented different ecophysiological strategies, even when sharing the same area. In the xerophytic site, some species suffered severe water stress (12 MPa and F v /F m lower than 0.3), while others exhibited optimal values of F v /F m and only moderate water stress. All the plants recovered after the first autumn rains. In the hygrophytic site, some sclerophyll species did not exhibit signs of water stress, but did suffer photoinhibition in clear winter days. A plasticity index was calculated to provide an integrated value of species plasticity. In summer, plasticity was higher in the xerophytic site, while in winter it was higher in the hygrophytic site. Ordination analysis of the physiological traits supports the traditional gradient of Mediterranean strategies from drought semideciduous to evergreen sclerophyll species, although spiny legume species formed an independent functional group. The functional responses of species clearly differ among plant communities according to the prevailing site Stressors, but no unique pattern emerges. Species combine traits in broader strategies according to previous evolutionary story exhibiting a certain amount of trade among traits, each contributing to alleviate a part of the plant stress.
20146902|Species richness in the alpine zone varies dramatically when communities are compared. We explored (i) which stress and disturbance factors were highly correlated with species richness, (ii) whether the intermediate stress hypothesis (ISH) and the intermediate disturbance hypothesis (IDH) can be applied to alpine ecosystems, and (iii) whether standing crop can be used as an easily measurable surrogate for causal factors determining species richness in the alpine zone. Species numbers and standing crop were determined in 14 alpine plant communities in the Swiss Alps. To quantify the stress and disturbance factors in each community, air temperature, relative air humidity, wind speed, global radiation, UV-B radiation, length of the growing season, soil suction, pH, main soil nutrients, waterlogging, soil movement, number of avalanches, level of denudation, winter dieback, herbivory, wind damage, and days with frost were measured or observed. The present study revealed that 82% of the variance in vascular species richness among sites could be explained by just two abiotic factors, daily maximum temperature and soil pH. Daily maximum temperature and pH affect species richness both directly and via their effects on other environmental variables. Some stress and disturbance factors were related to species richness in a monotonic way, others in an unimodal way. Monotonic relationships suggest that the harsher the environment is, the fewer species can survive in such habitats. In cases of unimodal relationships (ISH and IDH) species richness decreases at both ends of the gradients due to the harsh environment and/or the interaction of other environmental factors. Competition and disturbance seemed only to play a secondary role in the form of fine-tuning species richness in specific communities. Thus, we concluded that neither the ISH nor the IDH can be considered useful conceptual models for the alpine zone. Furthermore, we found that standing crop can be used as an easily measurable surrogate for causal factors determining species richness in the alpine zone, even though there is no direct causality.
20146961| We used clearcut logging in establishing four replicated sizes of canopy openings (0.016, 0.08, 0.4, and 2.0 ha) in a southern Appalachian hardwood forest in 1981 to examine the long-term effects of disturbance size on plant community structure, biomass accumulation, aboveground net primary productivity (NPP), and mode of recovery. The reestablishment of NPP and biomass following logging was 6-7-fold greater in large than small openings by 17 years. Total biomass in the 2.0 ha openings (127.3 Mg ha) recovered 59.5% as NPP (19.7 Mg ha yr) reached 225% of precut forest levels. Biomass accumulation was 2.6-3.6-fold greater in interior than edge locations of all but the 0.016 ha gaps. The absence of significant patch size or edge vs. interior differences in tree densities suggests that growth rates of individual trees were enhanced in more insolated microenvironments. Sprouting (86-95% of tree NPP) was much more important than advance regeneration (4-10%) or seedling germination (&lt2%) during early recovery in all opening sizes. Canopy dominant Quercus and Carya trees exhibited limited sprouting following disturbance. Instead, shade-intolerant Robinia pseudoacacia and Liriodendron tulipifera were major sprouters that used N-fixation (Robinia) and rapid growth (Liriodendron) in attaining 7.4 and 5.9 fold greater biomass accumulation, respectively in 2.0 ha than 0.016 ha opening sizes. Seedling germination and understory production were extensive in all openings following logging, but declined rapidly as the young tree canopy began closing by 4-6 years. The relative importance of shade-intolerant tree biomass approximately doubled over 17 years as shade-tolerant tree seedlings, herbs, and shrubs gradually regained importance under the emerging canopy. Sprouting caused the persistence of a tree species composition in all openings that remained relatively similar to the precut forest. Large disturbances on mountain slopes of the southern Appalachians generally promote sprouting and rapid recovery, whereas small disturbances in low-elevation cove forests lead to a gradual recovery through seedling germination and/or advance regeneration. Continued logging in the southern Appalachians will increase the relative size and frequency of large disturbances, further the importance of sprouting of shade-intolerant species, and lead to more even-aged forest stands throughout the region. 
20146445|New England high salt marsh primary productivity is limited by N, but variation in plant N availability across salt marsh vegetation zones has not been quantified. To investigate this, we measured in situ net N mineralization rates throughout the growing season in three zones of a Maine high salt marsh, Juncus gerardii, Spartina patens, and mixed perennial forb. We also measured microclimate factors (soil temperatures and moistures) and substrate quality parameters (soil organic matter, soil total nitrogen, soil C:N ratio) to see if either related to differences in net N mineralization. To determine the relative importance of substrate quality and microclimate, we measured N mineralization of the different soil types in the laboratory, holding microclimate parameters constant. We also investigated the relative importance of microclimate and substrate statistically, with principal components analysis and multiple regression. In situ net N mineralization rates were significantly higher in the forb zone than in graminoid zones, but graminoid zone N mineralization rates did not vary significantly from each other. Soil temperatures, moistures, carbon, and nitrogen were all significantly higher in the forb zone than in graminoid zones, but C:N ratio did not vary significantly across zones. Principal components analysis and multiple regression revealed that microclimate was a more significant predictor of total N mineralized over the course of the growing season than was substrate quality. In contrast, when microclimate conditions were held constant, forb zone N mineralization was still significantly higher than that of graminoid zones, suggesting that substrate quality does exert some control on this process. Thus, both microclimate and substrate quality appear to influence N mineralization rates across vegetation zones of this Maine salt marsh.
20050536|A phytosociological survey was carried out in the Forest Genetic Reserve of Caador, which belongs to the Brazilian Agriculture Research Corporation -- EMBRAPA. The Genetic Reserve comprises an area of 1120 ha and has been managed by the Agricultural Research and Extension Corporation of the State of Santa Catarina (EPAGRI). A restricted random sampling by plots, with units of
20050868|In herbaceous dominated patches and ecosystems, tree establishment is influenced partly by the ability of woody seedlings to survive and grow in direct competition with herbaceous vegetation. We studied the importance of season long wet and dry spells on the competitive interactions between herbaceous vegetation and oak seedlings along a light and nitrogen gradient in an infertile secondary successional grassland in central North America. We conducted a field experiment in which seedlings of bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) and northern pin oak (Q. ellipsoidalis) were exposed to two levels of light (full sun and 80% shade), three levels of nitrogen input (0, 5, 15 g
41508666|The higher growth rates of resprouting shoots compared with those of mature plants in resprouter woody species are supported by higher rates of photosynthesis and transpiration. In this contribution we hypothesize that species with higher resprouting vigour will show a larger enhancement of photosynthesis in resprouting shoots. We test this hypothesis by comparing gas exchange and leaf parameters between resprouting and mature plants in Erica scoparia and E. australis. These two Erica species co-occur in Mediterranean heathlands of the Strait of Gibraltar. Erica scoparia has a higher rate of post-disturbance starch recovery than E. australis, which makes it more resistant to recurrent disturbance. We tested the hypothesis that enhancement of photosynthesis and water use characteristics of resprouting shoots compared with mature plants should be more pronounced in E. scoparia. In both species, resprouts had higher efficiency in the use of light and higher maximum net photosynthesis than mature shoots. However, contrary to expectations, differences in the photosynthetic performance between resprouts and mature plant shoots were larger in E. australis. Higher root to shoot ratios in resprouting E. australis plants, determined by their slower aboveground recovery, together with stronger demand from carbon sinks might explain this result.
41508842|Grazing impacts the structure and functional properties of vegetation through floristic changes (i.e., long-term effect) and current defoliation (i.e., short-term effect). The aim of this study was to assess the relative importance of these two grazing effects on productivity (ANPP) and plant quality (C/N ratio) among plant patches submitted to a variety of grazing intensity for several years. Long-term grazing effect was measured by comparing ANPP and C/N ratio among plant patches with contrasting floristic composition. Short-term impact of grazing was measured by comparing ANPP and C/N in plant patches, with and without defoliation. Floristic contrasts led to a lower ANPP in highly grazed patches than in lightly grazed ones. This result may be related to the increasing proportion of grazing-tolerant and grazing-avoiding species with increasing grazing intensity. Vegetation C/N contrasts were recorded among grazed patches but did not linearly relate to grazing intensity. Short-term effect of current-year defoliation on ANPP was limited as vegetation compensated for biomass removal. No evidence for grazing-enhancement of ANPP was found even at moderate grazing intensity. Long-term floristic changes with grazing thus appeared to be the main driving factor of variations in ANPP. In contrast, C/N ratio showed no general and consistent variation along the grazing gradient but varied consistently depending on the community investigated, thus suggesting an effect of the species pool available.
40305686|Fire is an ecological factor that has been present in the ecosystems of the Mediterranean region for thousands of years. Our study was undertaken to acquire knowledge of the effect of fire on the germination of Mediterranean species. We used high temperatures (up to 60C) and smoke to determine the effect of these factors on the germination of species from the Mediterranean region. The species selected are characteristic of the central Mediterranean basin and are representative of both woody and herbaceous species: Rhamnus alaternus L., Cistus albidus L., Cistus monspeliensis L., Fumana ericoides (Cav.) Gand., Rosmarinus officinalis L., Melica ciliata L., Avena sterilis L., Bituminaria bituminosa (L.) C.H. Stirt., Anthyllis vulneraria L., Coronilla glauca L., Argyrolobium zanonii (Turra) P.W. Balland, Emerus major Mill., Genista scorpius (L.) D.C. and Spartium junceum L. The seeds were collected in Mediterranean shrubland (8) and woodland (6) ecosystems, around Montpellier, France (2445'N and 350'E). Ten treatments were tested: a control, three smoke treatments and six heat treatments. The average germination level (germination percentage) and the average T rates (time taken to reach 50% of germination) were calculated. The smoke and heat act in a different way on each of the species. The smoke enhanced the germination of two species, whilst moderate heat increased germination in all of the species excepting R. officinalis, F. ericoides, A. sterilis, A. vulneraria, and G. scorpius. Germination was fastest in M. ciliata and S. junceum and slowest in A. sterilis, E. major and C. albidus. The cues did not significantly affect the rate of germination. Fire modified the germination response of 12 of the 14 species studied.
20050628|Phenological studies in plant communities have generally focused on taxonomically heterogeneous species assemblages, and have only occasionally examined the evolutionary and ecological constraints on the phenological patterns of species within a single family or a genus. Here, we determine relative importance of phylogenetic versus other constraints on the flowering and fruiting periods of 12 species and the germination ecology of 10 species of Myrtaceae sympatric to the temperate rainforest of Isla Grande de Chilo (42 30 S), in southern Chile. We found that, for most species in the family Myrtaceae, flowering was strongly aggregated in January and February. Although this pattern is consistent with the expectation of the 'facilitation' hypothesis (i.e., interspecific overlaps are maximized to attract pollinators), available evidence suggests that pollinators, mainly hymenopterans and dipterans, do not limit fruit production in these species of Myrtaceae in the temperate rainforest. In contrast to flowering, fruiting occurred all-year-round, showing greater segregation in time among the species. According to the their temporal patterns of fruit ripening, two functional groups were defined within the Myrtaceae: those that ripen their fruits immediately after flowering (species in the subtribe Myrtinae) and those in which green fruit develops slowly for several months before ripening (subtribe Myrciinae). Seed germination in the field occurred mainly between August and October. Lab assays showed that the species of Myrtaceae, subtribe Myrtinae, exhibited a long seed dormancy (&gt40 days), while the seeds of species in the subtribe Myrciinae often germinated within one week after harvesting. The analysis of the phenology of reproductive events in the species of Myrtaceae in this rainforest suggests that: (1) flowering periods patterns are constrained mainly by phylogenetic inertia at the family level, and (2) differences in fruiting patterns and dormancy periods are determined mainly by fruit and seed size, which in turn are associated primarily with phylogenetic closeness within the family, and secondarily with the activity of vertebrate seed dispersers.
20146790| The composition of plant species in grassland communities is determined in part by negative and positive interactions among neighbouring plants; such interactions could be dispersal or -- in the case of legumes - symbiotic N fixation or resource acquisition. We hypothesised that small scale distribution of plant species may be in part affected by (i) the plant's narrow dispersal in the close neighbourhood, (ii) by the N input into the soil through symbiotic N fixation by legumes, and (iii) by small scale heterogeneity of N availability in the soil. To address these hypotheses, in four species-rich semi-natural and natural grasslands along an altitudinal gradient from 900 to 2100 m a.s.l., the association of species that grew within a radius of 5 cm of selected plant species (central plant, CP) was studied. The distribution of the plant species within the plant community was not random and the species composition that grew within a radius of 5 cm of a CP varied with altitude. The strength of the association between a CP and its neighbouring species decreased with increasing altitude. The 5 cm radius was most dominated by individuals of the same species as the CP, suggesting that narrow dispersal (either through seeds or through vegetative propagates) may be most important for the species composition within the sward. N values of non leguminous species growing near legumes compared to non leguminous species that grew far from legumes indicate that N from symbiotic N fixation may be another factor influencing the association of plant species. Effects of small scale heterogeneity in apparent N availability in the soil were detected to be the least important for the species composition. 
23500344|Passive management to preserve endangered plant species involves measures to avoid anthropogenic disturbance of natural populations, but this approach may not sustain plants that require disturbance-maintained habitats. Active management is often necessary to maintain existing habitats or provide new habitats for endangered species recovery. Our objective was to examine the effects of two disturbances in floodplain forests, soil flooding and light availability, on survival, stem length, stem diameter and ramet production of endangered Lindera melissifolia (Walt.) Blume. We used a water impoundment facility to control the timing and duration of flooding (0, 45 or 90 days) and shade houses to vary light availability (70, 63 or 5 % ambient light). Hydroperiod had little direct effect on steckling survival, stem length growth and stem diameter growth, supporting indications that soil flooding may be important for reduction of interspecific competition in L. melissifolia habitat. Greater ramet production by stecklings receiving no soil flooding likely resulted from longer periods of favorable soil conditions during each growing season. Positive stem length growth and stem diameter growth under all light levels demonstrates the plasticity of this species to acclimate to a range of light environments, though, greatest survival and stem length growth occurred when L. melissifolia received 37 % light, and stem diameter growth was greatest beneath 70 % light. Further, female clones produced more ramets as light availability increased. These results indicate that passive management absent natural disturbance could jeopardize sustainability of extant L. melissifolia populations, and this species would respond favorably to active management practices that create canopy openings to increase under-story light availability.
20146386|Across latitudinal gradients, environmental conditions that influence plant growth and reproduction largely change. Here we study clonal variation in life-cycle characteristics of the cosmopolitan water plant Potamogeton pectinatus L. across a broad latitudinal range. Two consecutive experiments were performed under standardised laboratory conditions (photoperiod, irradiance and temperature). In the first experiment we investigated asexual reproduction among fifteen clones, obtained from latitudes ranging from 24 to 68 N. After 90 days of growth, high-latitude clones produced more but smaller tubers, while the aboveground biomass was lower as compared to the clones obtained from low latitudes. In a second experiment we studied inherent differences in early growth, morphology and photosynthesis for eleven clones (obtained from the same latitudinal range as in experiment 1). We found high among clonal variation for most measured variables, but the number of latitude-correlated traits was limited. The only trait that correlated with latitude was the number of leaves per plant, which increased in clones from higher latitudes. Our results agree with the hypothesis of a latitude-correlated switch in life-cycle strategy for this species. For northern clones this results in a short life-cycle, with an early and high investment in tuber biomass, while for low latitude clones the length of the life-cycle is prolonged, with a delayed reproduction and increased total plant biomass.
20050676|Herbivory by rodents, lagomorphs and insects may locally constrain woody plant seedling establishment and stand development. Recruitment may therefore depend either upon plant tolerance of herbivory, or low herbivore abundance, during seedling establishment. We tested potential herbivory tolerance by quantifying growth, biomass allocation, and survival of defoliated Prosopis glandulosa seedlings under optimal abiotic conditions in the absence of competition. Realized tolerance was assessed by clipping seedlings of known age grown in the field with and without herbaceous competition. At 18-d (= 'young') or 33-d (= 'old') of age, seedlings in the growth chamber were clipped just above the first (cotyledonary) node, above the fourth node, or were retained as non-clipped controls. Potential tolerance to defoliation was high and neither cohort showed evidence of meristematic limitations to regeneration. Clipping markedly reduced biomass production relative to controls, especially belowground, but survival of seedlings defoliated 5 times was still 75%. Contrary to expectations, survival of seedlings defoliated above the cotyledonary node 10 times was greater (P &lt 0.10) for 'young' (75%) than 'old' (38%) seedlings. Under field conditions, survival of defoliated 11-month-old P. glandulosa seedlings was 59% after one defoliation and only 13% after six defoliations. Results indicate P. glandulosa is potentially tolerant of repeated shoot removal early in its life cycle. Seedling tolerance to defoliation under field conditions therefore appears dependent upon abiotic stresses or resource limitations rather than a lack of intrinsic adaptations for shoot replacement or a depletion of the seedlings' bud bank. Curtailment of root growth, a consequence of top removal observed in the growth chamber experiment, may reduce the capacity of P. glandulosa seedlings to acquire soil resources needed for meristem activation and shoot growth under field conditions. The importance of resource availability to post-defoliation regeneration was implicated in the field experiment, where survival, shoot elongation, and aboveground productivity of clipped seedlings was greatest in plots without herbaceous interference. In light of the marked increases in P. glandulosa abundance in grasslands in recent history, our results suggest that (1) utilization of Prosopis seedlings by herbivores may be infrequent or sporadic, (2) periodic episodes of seed production and germination may satiate herbivore populations, and/or (3) Prosopis seedling establishment occurs during periods of low herbivore density.
20050600|(1) The dynamics of vegetative reproduction in the giant bamboo, Phyllostachys pubescens, at the Nature Reserve of Jinyun Mountain, Chongqing, Subtropical China, are described for a period of 20 years. (2) Production of new bamboo shoots fluctuated significantly among years. In 'good' years, the number and size of new shoots emerging and surviving in the bamboo groves significantly exceeded those in 'poor' years. Moreover, good and poor years often alternated, forming a regular biennial cycle. (3) The biennial cycle resulted from the year-to-year variation in the number of adult shoots carrying new leaves. This is based on the fact that the leaf life span of the bamboo is two years, and all leaves on a shoot have been formed simultaneously. Mean number of new shoots emerging and surviving per plot was positively correlated with the proportion of adult shoots carrying new (one year old) leaves. The annual production of new shoots of Phyllostachys pubescens was not significantly correlated with the annual values of logging intensity of bamboo poles, rainfall or temperature. The survival rate of new shoots was constant over years. (4) Severe pests (e.g., plague of locusts), extreme drought or heavy overlogging of adult shoots with new leaves can be triggers of poor production of new shoots during the following spring.
23267387|Fire can have dramatic effects on the vital rates of plant species and has been used successfully for management in a number of ecosystems. However, the demographic response of species to fire in fire-dependent ecosystems is variable, making it important to study the effects of fire on rare and threatened species. We quantified the effects of fire on Astragalus michauxii and Pyxidanthera brevifolia, two rare endemics of the longleaf pine-wiregrass ecosystem of the southeastern USA, by means of periodic matrix models to project the effect of fire frequency on population growth. In contrast to many species in the longleaf pine-wiregrass ecosystem, fire had short-term negative effects on both species, causing reductions in survival, size, flowering, and fruit production. Relative to the three-year fire intervals to which the study populations are currently exposed, more frequent burning is projected to cause population decline, with the most dramatic effects under annual burning. Although the current longleaf pine-wiregrass ecosystem is fire dependent and has experienced frequent fire for at least several thousand years, we propose that the two endemic species may be remnants from a past vegetation assemblage that experienced less frequent fire and thus may be adapted to longer fire-return intervals compared to other species currently in the ecosystem. Despite the short-term negative effects of fire on the vital rates of these species, longer-term benefits such as reduction of woody encroachment and litter removal may be important for the ultimate success of the species.
20050936|The vulnerability to drought and freeze stress was measured in young plants of Quercus ilex L. growing in the field in two natural sites within the Italian distribution area of this species, i.e. Sicily (Southern Mediterranean Basin) and Venezia Giulia (Northeastern Italy), respectively. In particular, the resistance strategies adopted by Q. ilex to withstand the two stresses were estimated in terms of seasonal and/or diurnal changes in leaf conductance to water vapour (
20146605|In Tuberaria guttata, petal length, ovule number, and seeds per capsule raised steeply with increasing plant size (respectively, in the ranges 6-11 mm, 40-100, and 20-80), while the number of stamens varied relatively little (14-20). All flowers set fruit, and the rates of embryo abortion were independent of plant size and low on average. Individual fecundities had a markedly right-skewed frequency distribution (in the ranges 1-20 capsules and 20-1500 seeds per plant), which issued not only from plant size and flower production being positively correlated, but also from per-flower ovule numbers being directly proportional to plant size. Correlated variation of plant and ovary sizes amplified among-plant inequalities regarding fecundity; allowed larger plants to set ca. 50% more seed than expected on the basis of flower number only; and caused the slope of the size-fecundity relationship to be considerably steeper (at the population level) than if ovule number was a fixed trait. Corolla, ovary and androecium plasticity in Tuberaria are discussed in terms of environmental effects and developmental constraints.
20050970|Leaf demography of four deciduous and five evergreen broadleaved tree species was studied in two replicate tropical montane cloud forest fragments (1250-1400 m elevation) in Veracruz, Mexico. The objectives were to investigate leaf life spans, expansion rates, survivorship curves, specific leaf area (SLA) and nitrogen concentration in tree species of contrasting leaf habits and phytogeographical affinities growing naturally in the same forest type. Tagged leaves were located in the mid forest canopy and were reached with a six-m ladder. A total of 2688 leaves from 78 trees were monitored from bud burst to death. Mean leaf longevity was 8.25 mo for deciduous tree species and 15.0 mo for evergreens. Mean leaf longevity was highly variable among evergreen species which included both the longest (Magnolia, 36.4 mo) and the shortest (Hedyosmum, 6.4 mo) values. Patterns of leaf emergence were similar for eight species with a pronounced peak at the beginning of the calendar year. The only exception was Hedyosmum with a multiple flush pattern. More than 50% leaf expansion occurred in less than a month for three deciduous species (Carpinus, Liquidambar, Quercus) and two evergreens (Oreopanax and Magnolia), but required more than a month for Clethra (deciduous) and Cinnamomum, Hedyosmum and Turpinia (evergreen). Leaf survivorship curves were similar between the two study sites, but they differed between deciduous and evergreen species. There was no significant difference between leaf habit groups in SLA, leaf area, or nitrogen concentration, however, SLA was inversely correlated with leaf longevity. Arranging the studied taxa from primitive to advanced reaveled that species in more primitive groups have the longest life-spans (Magnolia, Cinnamomum) and more advanced taxa have the shortest life spans (Carpinus, Quercus). Phylogenetic relationships between species should be taken into account when studying leaf traits.
20050806|Locally absent growth rings are known to occur in trees during periods of environmental stress, but little evidence has been available on their frequency in moist temperate forests or on their potential for causing problems in dendroecological studies. In this study, 95 stem disks of Acer saccharum cut from trees representing a wide range of size and age were examined for ring anomalies using three techniques -- inspection of disks for partial rings, crossdating of each tree against regional master chronologies, and use of stand history evidence. The number of ring anomalies in Acer saccharum was inversely related to growth rate and vigor. Mean percentage of ring anomalies was 1.3% in dominant canopy trees, 4.6% in trees of the intermediate crown class, and 16.2% in overtopped trees. All of the overtopped trees had partial or missing rings, with a mean of 10 per tree and a range of 2 to 20. Use of crossdating to correct for ring anomalies appeared to be successful in 88% of the canopy trees. However, crossdating results were inconclusive in 32% of the overtopped trees because of low ring width variability, multiple missing rings, and short duration of trouble-free segments. Because overtopped trees are of limited value in reconstructing disturbance history and often cannot be crossdated reliably, we suggest that they normally be excluded from disturbance chronologies.
20146618|The ingestion of seeds by vertebrates usually affects the viability and/or germination rate of seeds. Increases in germination rate following passage through the vertebrate gut have often been assumed to be favourable for seedling survival and plant fitness, but this assumption has never been tested experimentally. Given that numbers of herbivorous waterfowl are higher in winter in Mediterranean wetlands, herbivory pressure there will be higher for early growing plants. In a factorial experiment we investigated the effects of seed ingestion by ducks (shoveler, Anas clypeata) on the survival of wigeongrass Ruppia maritima seedlings in the field in Doana (south-west Spain), under differing exposures to herbivory by waterfowl and fish. We planted ingested and non-ingested seeds in December, using exclosures to protect half of them from herbivores. When they were protected inside exclosures, there was no difference between ingested and non-ingested seeds in the number of plants that survived until June-July. However, fewer plants survived from ingested seeds when exposed to natural levels of herbivory because they were exposed for longer than plants germinating from non-ingested seeds. In conclusion, increases in germination rate after ingestion are not necessarily beneficial for the plant, and the final outcome depends on complex interactions with other factors such as herbivore abundance.
40540383|We investigated the spatial structures of soil properties and snow-bed vegetation, and their relationships, in southern Italy. We analyzed data on 26 plant species and 10 soil traits from adjacent 1  1 m plots in two snow-bed patches. Measures of spatial autocorrelation revealed striking spatial structures for plant cover and soil properties at both sites. Bivariate statistics and Mantel tests highlighted a significant correlation between spatial patterns of plants and soil in the study sites. Canonical correspondence analysis related such relationships to an ecological gradient connecting soil properties and plant assemblages in this unusual ecological context. Among the variables significantly related to plant patterns is the soil organic matter, which is recognized as being sensitive to global warming. Our analyses suggest that soil dynamics due to increasing temperature may promote the replacement of species typical of southern snow-bed ecosystems by more mesophilous plants.
41508835|Intraspecific variation in seed production schedule and its effects on seed characteristics were examined in the deciduous oak species Quercus serrata in Iwate Prefecture, northern Japan. Seed production schedule differed markedly among 31 individual trees. The median dates of seed production differed by over 1 month between the earliest and latest individuals. Relationships between seed production schedule and seed characteristics were investigated at two different scales: the among-tree scale and the within-tree scale. At the within-tree scale, analyses revealed that the seeds dispersed by a tree later in the season tended to be larger in size and lower in tannin concentration. Similarly, at the among-tree scale, analysis revealed that trees with a later seed production schedule produced on average larger acorns. However, no clear tendency was observed between seed production schedule and mean tannin concentration. The observed variation in seed production schedule is likely to affect seed fate per se, and also via changes in seed characteristics.
20146723| We examined aboveground biomass dynamics, aboveground net primary production (ANPP), and woody detritus input in an old Sequoia sempervirens stand over a three-decade period. Our estimates of aboveground biomass ranged from 3300 to 5800 Mg ha. Stem biomass estimates ranged from 3000 to 5200 Mg ha. Stem biomass declined 7% over the study interval. Biomass dynamics were patchy, with marked declines in recent tree-fall patches &lt0.05 ha in size. Larger tree-fall patches approaching 0.2 ha in size were observed outside the study plot. Our estimates of ANPP ranged from 6 to 14 Mg ha yr. Estimates of 7 to 10 Mg ha yr were considered to be relatively accurate. Thus, our estimates based on long-term data corroborated the findings of earlier short-term studies. ANPP of old, pure stands of Sequoia was not above average for temperate forests. Even though production was potentially high on a per stem basis, it was moderate at the stand level. We obtained values of 797 m ha and 262 Mg ha for coarse woody detritus volume and mass, respectively. Fine woody detritus volume and mass were estimated at 16 m ha and 5 Mg ha, respectively. Standing dead trees (or snags) comprised 7% of the total coarse detritus volume and 8% of the total mass. Coarse detritus input averaged 5.7 to 6.9 Mg ha yr. Assuming steady-state input and pool of coarse detritus, we obtained a decay rate constant of 0.022 to 0.026. The old-growth stand of Sequoia studied had extremely high biomass, but ANPP was moderate and the amount of woody detritus was not exceptionally large. Biomass accretion and loss were not rapid in this stand partly because of the slow population dynamics and low canopy turnover rate of Sequoia at the old-growth stage. Nomenclature: Hickman (1993). 
20146448|Exotic plant invasions are a serious concern for land managers and conservationists. There is evidence that increased nitrogen availability favors exotic species and decreased nitrogen availability favors non-weedy native species. This study was conducted to test the effect of nitrogen availability on competition between two grass species with contrasting life histories, cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), a North American exotic, and blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis), a North American native. We investigated the effects of nitrogen availability and competition on aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, height, and % nitrogen tissue concentrations by growing the two species in the greenhouse under five levels of nitrogen and six levels of competition. Nitrogen availability affected competition between Bromus tectorum and Bouteloua gracilis. At the lowest level of N availability, neither species was affected by competition. As N availability increased, aboveground biomass gain of Bromus was more negatively affected by intraspecific competition relative to interspecific competition while the opposite occurred for Bouteloua. At the competition level at which each species gained the most aboveground biomass, Bromus had a linear response to increasing N availability while the response of Bouteloua was asymptotic. Our results do provide some support for the theory that fast growing exotic species have a rapid response to nutrient enrichment while native non-weedy species do not, and that low N levels can reduce competitive pressure from the exotic on the native.
20050954|Trees in pastures attract seed dispersers, leading to increased seed arrival under their canopies and more rapid regrowth around them. The characteristics that make some trees better 'recruitment foci' than others, however, are poorly understood. In a neotropical pasture, we examined the arrival of seeds to open areas and underneath four genera of trees that varied in canopy architecture and type of fruit produced: Ficus trees had dense canopies and fleshy fruits, Pentaclethra trees had dense canopies and dry fruits, Cecropia trees had sparse canopies and fleshy fruits, and Cordia trees had sparse canopies and dry fruits. We found that all trees received more seeds than open pasture, probably because trees provided seed dispersers with better perches, protection from predators, nesting sites, etc. Among the tree genera, more seeds arrived under trees that produced fleshy fruits than trees that did not. This occured even during periods when trees were not fruiting (i.e., non-fruiting Ficus and Cecropia trees received more seeds than Cordia or Pentaclethra trees). Seed dispersers may periodically check Ficus and Cecropia trees for fruits, or they may become familiar with these trees while feeding and thereafter use them for other reasons. Height of trees had a slight positive effect on seed arrival, possibly because taller trees offered more protection from predators. Canopy architecture and distance to forest edge did not significantly affect seed arrival. This study demonstrates that trees in general are potentially important recruitment foci, but that different types of trees vary in the kind of recruitment that they foster in pastures.
40305619|Although strip clear-cutting has a long history of use in the temperate zone, it was only recently introduced for timber extraction in tropical rain forests, where it is known as the Palcaz Forest Management System. In this system heterogeneous tropical forests are managed for native gap-dependent timber species by simulating gap dynamics through clear-cutting long, narrow strips every 40 years. As part of an assessment of the sustainability of this system, we evaluated the recovery of tree basal area, species richness, and composition after 15 years of regeneration on two strips (30 x 150 m) clear-cut in 1989 in Jenaro Herrera, Peru. Timber stocking and the effects of silvicultural thinning were assessed in both strips. The strips recovered 58-73% of their original basal area and 45-68% of their original tree species richness. Although both strips recovered more than 50% of their original composition, commercial species had lower basal areas and lower densities than in the forest before the clearing. Pioneer species with high basal areas remained dominant 15 years after the cutting. Silvicultural thinning in 1996 reduced the abundance of pioneer species in both strips, and increased the abundance of commercial species in one of the strips. Half of one strip was harvested by deferment-cut (only commercial trees >30 cm dbh and "other" species >5 cm dbh were cut); regeneration here had greater abundance of commercial species and lower abundance of pioneer species. The low stocking of commercial trees challenges the sustainability claims for this forest management system.
41508772|The genetic structure of fragmented Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Mill.) populations in Jordan was investigated using RAPD markers. The level of within-population polymorphism was low, while differentiation among populations was large, suggesting a low level of gene flow. Population differentiation and genetic distance between populations were not related to geographical distance. Clustering based on multivariate discriminant analysis showed that geographically distant populations clustered together with a high clustering accuracy and strong relationship to rainfall. Results supported that the current population configuration is the result of fragmentation of a once larger and contiguous population due to Holocene conditions exacerbated by increased human disturbance of forest ecosystems. Implications for conservation strategies are discussed.
40305623|The sprouting response types of 1,151 cork oak (Quercus suber) trees one and half years after a wildfire in southern Portugal were characterised. It was hypothesised that different response types should occur according to the following conceptual model: an increased level of damage (fire severity) on a sprouting tree that suffered a crown fire was expected to be reflected in a sequence of four alternative events, namely (a) resprouting exclusively from crown, (b) simultaneous resprouting from crown and base, (c) resprouting exclusively from base and (d) plant death. To assess whether the level of expected damage was influenced by the level of protection from disturbance, we explored the relationships between response types and tree size, bark thickness and cork stripping, using an informationtheoretic approach. The more common response type was crown resprouting (68.8% of the trees), followed by plant death (15.8%), simultaneous resprouting from crown and base (10.1%) and basal resprouting (5.3%). In agreement with the conceptual model, trees which probably suffered a higher level of damage by fire (larger trees with thinner bark; exploited for cork) died or resprouted exclusively from base. On the other hand, trees that were well protected (smaller trees with thicker bark not exploited for cork) were able to rebuild their canopy through crown resprouting. Simultaneous resprouting from the crown and base was determined mainly by tree size, and it was more common in smaller trees.
20050761|The seasonal pattern and degree of asexual reproduction of a boreal hepatic species, Lophozia silvicola Buch, were studied in a lowland population of the species in central Norway. Asexual reproduction was quantified as numbers of 1-2 -celled gemmae produced per individual shoot, with average production ranging from 1000 to 7000 gemmae per shoot. Despite a slightly increasing trend in early spring, average numbers of gemmae present on shoots were fairly constant during the growing season. Germinability of gemmae was high in early spring, but declined rapidly towards the end of the season, suggesting an increasing proportion of gemmae in the dormant stage in the diaspore bank. Despite repeated sampling, average shoot density remained fairly constant in L. silvicola colonies during the growth season. Gemma production did not correlate with shoot density. Local colonization efficiency was estimated as frequency of occupied substrate patches and proportion of substrate area occupied by L. silvicola in a 10  20 m plot. Colonizable substrates included decaying wood, bare soil and rock surfaces. Colonies of L. silvicola were small, and differences in colony sizes between the substrate types were not significant. Colonies were found in 38% of the substrate patches, but total cover was low, less than 0.1% of all colonizable substrate.
20146930|In forest systems, drought acts as a disturbance that can generate impacts on community structure and composition at multiple scales. This study focused on a 2-month drought event within an early successional forest system to determine the mechanism(s) of community response to, and recovery from, drought. Drought induced a 28% decline in neighborhood species richness and cover as a result of decreased colonization and increased extinction rates. Following drought, neighborhood richness quickly recovered via increased colonization rates while extinction rates were unaltered. Drought had little long-term effect on neighborhood structure (species richness and cover) and generated only subtle changes in neighborhood composition. Ruderal (annual and biennial) species were more likely to change (increase or decrease) in cover and frequency than the more stress tolerant perennial and woody species. However, population dynamics appeared to be generally driven by stochastic species turnover among fields and not by uniform shifts in species performance across the site. Although drought impacts and recovery appeared predictable at the neighborhood scale, population responses to drought within the site were rather unpredictable. Our findings suggest that stochastic fine-scale processes can generate predictable course-scale dynamics within a disturbed system. The scale-specific mechanisms of community change presented here should be explored in other systems to determine the extent of their generality in driving disturbance impacts on communities.
20146953|A greenhouse experiment was conducted to test the effects of sand burial depth and seed mass on seedling emergence and growth of Nitraria sphaerocarpa. Seeds of Nitraria sphaerocarpa were sorted into three size-classes (large, medium, small) and artificially buried at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 cm depths in plastic pots filled with unsterilized sand. In the seven treatments, the percent emergence, seedling mass and seedling height, significantly affected by both burial depth and seed size, were highest at the optimal burial depth of 2 cm burial depth, and decreased with increasing burial depth in each seed size-class. Although seedling mass was usually greatest for large seeds and least for small seeds at each burial depth, little difference was observed in seedling height at shallow burial depths of 0-3 cm. In each seed size-class, with increasing burial depth, both root-mass ratio and aboveground stem-mass ratio decreased, while belowground stem-mass ratio increased. In each burial depth, with decreasing seed size, belowground stem-mass ratio increased, while root-mass ratio decreased.
20146807|To continue our study on the chionophilous communities of western North America, this report presents a phytosociological survey of communities growing in a boreal macroclimate. Combining the Braun-Blanquet approach with numerical analysis, 378 relevs were ordered and classified by tabular and average linkage cluster analyses, revealing 11 associations in the classes Salicetea herbaceae, Loiseleurio-Vaccinietea, and Carici rupestris-Kobresietea bellardii. The following new syntaxa are described and typified: Carici podocarpae-Anemonetalia parviflorae, Solidagini arcticae-Dryadion alaskensis, Taraxaco alaskani-Salicion rotundifoliae, Vaccinio mini-Betuletalia exilis, Polygono plumosi-Cassiopion tetragonae, Arnico lessingii-Cassiopetum tetragonae, and Carici podocarpae-Betuletum exilis.
40305455|The diversity and spatial distribution of vascular epiphytes were surveyed in two biotopes (dryland forest and swamp-inundated forest) of the semi-deciduous rain forest area in Cameroon. Eight sites in each biotope were selected, which included 530 individuals of phorophytes in dryland forest and 460 in swamp-inundated forest. A total of 148 epiphyte species were recorded, which showed that semi-deciduous rain forests represent a major source of African-epiphyte diversity. Dryland forest hosted 110 epiphyte species, while the swamp-inundated forest harboured 108. A total of 56 species were found only in the dryland forest and 60 were restricted to the swamp-inundated forest. At family level, Orchidaceae exhibited the highest-species richness within both biotopes. Pteridophytes were more abundant in the swamp-inundated forest. A TWINSPAN analysis of the floristic similarities separated the two investigated forest types very clearly. No significant difference existed between the two biotopes regarding vertical distribution of epiphytes within single trees. The swamp-inundated forests may serve as a refuge for many epiphytes that occur in the outer canopy of the dryland forests, both because they are inherently less vulnerable to timber extraction, and enjoy better protection by legislation.
20051002|Our objective was to asses site parameters, species diversity, phytomass structure and element stores of a Terrafirme forest prior to subsequent studies on nutrient fluxes during forest conversion. The soil was classified as a Xanthic Ferralsol, with a low effective cation exchange capacity (ECEC), low nutrient status and a deeply weathered solum. On 0.75 ha, including all trees with a DBH &gt7 cm, we identified 222 tree species belonging to 58 families. The above-ground phytomass was estimated using logarithmic regression analysis on two plots of 0.25 ha each. Despite differences in forest structure and species composition, no major differences were found in terms of total phytomass or overall element stores. The mean living above-ground phytomass (LAGP) was 257 Mg
40305450|The Southern Grassland biome in Brazil has long been neglected by the government and by the scientific community as well. Lack of studies about the effects of disturbance (mostly fire and grazing) on plant community and populations are the main hindrances for the future management plans, which complicates the conservation of this rich and unique biome. In this study, the population biology of a rosette species, Eryngium horridum (Apiaceae), has been investigated, in order to compare the effects of fire, grazing and abandonment. E. horridum is a very common species and many farmers consider it a nuisance. Two different areas were chosen for the study purposes: Morro Santana and the Research Center Pro-Mata. Areas under different types (fire and grazing) and disturbance histories were compared. Populations were analysed in plots of 25 m 2 , divided in age-state classes (seedlings, young, adult and reproductive individuals). Both morphological and phenological traits have been investigated. Fire influenced populations in a direct way, whilst grazing showed an indirect effect. Seedlings were found only in areas excluded from disturbance for 3 years on Morro Santana. Due to this, seedling establishment might be more related to environmental conditions than to disturbance regimes. Young individuals were mainly found in recently burned areas, while adult individuals were dominant in areas excluded from disturbance. Additionally, individuals from E. horridum showed a great capacity of resprouting after plant damage. Reproductive individuals also showed the capacity of producing new rosettes after the death of the inflorescence axis. This strategy is probably of great importance for the survival of populations in areas excluded from disturbance. Therefore, vegetative reproduction seemed to be the most important strategy for the maintenance and survival of its populations, allowing longer population persistence over time, even in the absence of disturbance.
41508662|In fire-prone ecosystems, plants for the most part persist via either soil-stored seed banks (seeders) or below-ground storage structures (resprouters). Given their greater allocation of resources above ground to growth and reproduction, seeders are likely to have a higher nutrient requirement than resprouters. This may result in discernable differences in habitat nutrition and leaf morphology. These differences are probably accentuated in Cape legumes given their poor adaptation to low-P soils. It was hypothesized that legume seeders occupy habitats with greater fertility and possess larger, less sclerophyllous leaves than resprouters. Site nutrition and leaf morphologies were compared between seeders and resprouters in the genera Otholobium and Psoralea. There were no differences in leaf morphology between seeders and resprouters. Seeders sites had a higher total [N], exchangeable [Ca] and [Mg], and CEC, but lower [Fe] than resprouters. Only within Otholobium, did seeder sites have a higher Bray II [P]. This genus-specific variation in available P is probably a consequence of greater variation in soil type and precipitation between seeders and resprouters. Conversely, niche construction may contribute to the differences in soil fertility between seeders and resprouters in Psoralea. Thus, our data showed a general tendency for seeders to inhabit more fertile sites than resprouters. Caution is required, however, in generalizing these results, as our data indicate a difference in factors affecting soil nutrient availability between legume genera. Changes in soil fertility post-fire may limit legume persistence beyond the early stages of succession.
20050661|This work emphasises the usefulness of hemispherical photography for identifying spatial patterns in the tropical rain forest structure. Structural variability was investigated at a local (intra-site) scale, in relation to the forest mosaic, and at a regional (inter-sites) scale, for its implication in forest typology. Four primary forest sites, from 0.6 to 1 ha, were investigated in Central Sumatra, Indonesia. In a first instance, a qualitative analysis of the forest 3-D structure was found to be very helpful in the interpretation of quantitative results related to forest dynamics. The quantitative analysis was undertaken through the assessment of three structural characteristics: (1) the canopy openness (CO), or visible sky as seen from all directions of the hemisphere, (2) the spherical variance (SV), which quantifies the spatial dispersion of gaps and, (3) the plant area index (
20050925|Kyllinga nervosa (Steud.) and Sporobolus kentrophyllus (K. Schum.) are co-dominant plants of the Serengeti short-grass plains, Tanzania. The plains are characterized by seasonal and sporadic rainfall and currently support in excess of 1.5 million migratory ungulates. The interactive effect of simulated bovine urine and water availability were tested on the competitive interactions of these species in the laboratory. Sporobolus kentrophyllus was a superior competitor to K. nervosa over the tested treatment levels with respect to growth and reproductive effort. Sporobolus kentrophyllus exhibited rapid growth in response to urine addition, leading to a significant species  urine interaction while reduced growth by K. nervosa in response to low water availability explained the significant species  water interaction and is likely explained by K. nervosa's shallow root system. Kyllinga nervosa, however, appears to be more tolerant of low nitrogen conditions based on its similar growth with and without the urine treatment. The effect of intraspecific competition on total biomass was similar for S. kentrophyllus and K. nervosa. Competition resulted in increased size differences (asymmetry) for K. nervosa and for the interspecific competition treatments compared to the size differences observed for plants grown individually (in absence of competition). Total reproductive biomass was reduced most by competition with S. kentrophyllus, irrespective of target species. The water treatment did not influence reproduction while the urine treatment significantly increased reproductive biomass and interacted with target species, competitor species, and yielded a three-way urine  target  competitor species interaction. Results suggest that codominance of these two species in the Serengeti is regulated by water availability, nitrogen input from grazers, and local neighbor identity.
20146921|Dispersal in myrmecochorous herbs is frequently short-distance and this might limit patch occupancy. Here we ask whether recruitment and patch occupancy in the myrmecochere Helleborus foetidus are seed- or microsite-limited and what role dispersal plays in recruitment limitation. In pine forests from two widely separated mountain systems in the Iberian Peninsula, we performed two seed addition experiments to explore the nature of recruitment limitation in this perennial herb. In an introduction experiment, we added seeds in patches far from reproductive individuals, which rarely receive any seed. In an augmentation experiment, we added seeds in patches beneath reproductive plants. Each experiment considered three main factors: seed addition (added or not added), rodent exclusion (excluded or not excluded), and microhabitat (scrub-covered or not scrub-covered). The augmentation experiment tests whether recruitment is limited by seed availability (exploring also the possible role of rodent granivory in such limitation) while the introduction experiment tests whether the empty patches occur either because they are unsuitable for the species (microsite limitation) or due to a low probability of seed arrival (dispersal limitation). Adding seeds almost always increased seedling emergence and recruitment, demonstrating that recruitment in this species is seed-limited and refuting the possibility of microsite limitation. The comparison of the introduction and augmentation experiments indicated that Helleborus recruitment dynamics and patch occupancy are constrained by additive effects of fecundity and dispersal limitation.
20146824|This study examined the interactive effects of grazing intensity and burning on a remnant population of the California native bunchgrass Nassella pulchra. We measured growth, reproduction and mortality of permanently marked bunchgrasses and measured bunchgrass seedling recruitment and density in permanent quadrats. We burned half of the treatment plots in late spring 1998. Grazing treatments were implemented in 1998, 1999 and 2000 at four different intensities: ungrazed, light rotational grazing (31% average biomass removal), heavy rotational grazing (42% average biomass removal), and continuously grazed. Both burning and grazing affected the bunchgrass population. Bunchgrass mortality was 10% higher in burned vs. unburned plots but was not significantly different among grazing treatments. Seedling density was 100% higher in burned vs. unburned plots 2 years after the burn, however seedling densities never attained preburn levels. Seedling densities did not differ significantly among grazing treatments, but grazing reduced the height and reproduction of the mature bunchgrasses. Adult bunchgrass density did not differ significantly in any of the treatments but experienced a five-fold decrease over the 4 years of the experiment. Although the continuous grazing treatment reduced the number of culms produced per plant by 75% from the baseline year, the effect on culm production in the continuous grazing treatment was not consistently greater than the rotational grazing treatments. The interaction of grazing and burning had no significant impacts on the N. pulchra populations except on the diameter of adult bunchgrasses which was highest in the lightly grazed, unburned treatments 2 years following the burn. All response variable except bunchgrass height followed a similar pattern in time over the 4 years of the experiment regardless of treatment, peaking in 1998 and then declining in 1999 and 2000. We believe the above average rainfall and below average temperatures experienced late in the growing season in 1998 provided conditions that favored the native bunchgrasses. Overall, we found few interactive effects of grazing and burning but the separate treatments did affect bunchgrass growth, reproduction and mortality, and these effects were modulated by the ubiquitous effects of climatic fluctuations.
20050515|One of the difficult problems arising in many ecological models of development of plant communities and populations is how to estimate the aerial biomass in a non destructive way. This paper presents a nondestructive estimation of the aboveground biomass of plants of several species of Mediterranean shrubs. The method used combines the length-based measurements of a number of plants of each of several taxon with measured biomasses of those same plants fitting allometric nonlinear regression equations to yield parameterized models of plant biomass as a function of plant apparent volume. Two methods of estimating the apparent volume are developed and compared with a well known one in literature.
23267452|The research aims were to identify the flowering pattern and the related functional strategies in submediterranean mountain meadows (central Italy) and understand their relationships with some environmental and community structure variables. The number of flowering shoots per species was counted and environmental data were collected in 40 plots during 2009. Analysis of the species and trait data sets highlighted a flowering pattern and an underlying functional pattern. Dominant species tend to bloom in the central phases of the growing season when no stress acts in the system and a long time is available for plant growth and seed maturation. This kind of species does not need functional strategies allowing the canopy fast pre-emption or the tolerance to drought stress. Non-dominant species have two groups of functional strategies that allow them to share the same flowering period of dominant ones by a different type of space occupation (spatial niche partitioning) or to flower before or after their flowering period (temporal niche partitioning). The functional strategies involved in the temporal niche partitioning have a dual ecological meaning, limiting competition with dominant species by fast growth and seed maturation (e.g., short stature, mobilisation of stored reserves, colonization of unexploited soil niches by clonal growth organs and light seeds) and enabling tolerance to drought stress (e.g., scleromorphic and succulent leaves, persistent green leaves, tap roots) and to the low light availability at the ground level owing to the change of grassland structure (e.g., tall size and upright growth form).
20050657|We measured newly-produced seeds entering the soil (Potential Seed Bank) to assess the timing and spatial patterning of Phase I dispersal in the central Monte desert, Argentina. Rates of forb- (6.13
20146806|Through tabular and average linkage cluster analyses, 872 phytosociological relevs, including 491 obtained from the literature and 381 of our own relevs obtained in the field, were ordered and classified. Based on these relevs, we then described and typified the associations, alliances, orders, subclasses, and classes defining the chionophilous communities of the boreal, temperate and Mediterranean climates of western North America. Diagnostic tables, ordination, clustering, and climatic, edaphic, and biogeographical data were used to establish floristic affinities among these syntaxa and interpret their distributions. Syntaxa were characterized by their floristic composition, physiognomy and biogeographical distribution, along with their position on the snow gradient. Finally, we ascribed the communities growing in temperate and Mediterranean climates to the new class Hieracio gracilis-Juncetea drummondii, including 3 subclasses, 6 orders, 12 alliances and 34 associations.
41508683|The Brazilian Cerrado is a diversity hotspot due to its high level of endemism and rapid loss of habitats. It is estimated that the number of herbaceous species is four times higher than that of woody species. Increasing levels of nitrogen additions to natural ecosystems have been indicated as a determinant of biodiversity loss. We investigated the effects of nutrient additions on the productivity (aboveground and belowground) and on diversity of the herbaceoussubshrub layer of a Brazilian savanna (cerrado stricto sensu). The experiment was carried out in the IBGE Ecological Reserve, near Braslia, Brazil. Between 1998 and 2006, N, P, N plus P, or Ca were applied to sixteen 225 m plots, arranged in a completely randomized design. Aboveground biomass was compared 1 year after the first fertilization and 10 years later. Floristic diversity was significantly different (P < 0.01) between the treatments. The highest and lowest species richness were presented in control and NP, respectively. The addition of P alone or in combination with N induced invasion by Melinis minutiflora (exotic C grass). The aboveground biomass of this species was higher in NP and P plots. In the N treatment, Echinolaena inflexa (native C grass) presented elevated cover and biomass but M. minutiflora was absent. The invasion by alien species resulted in negative impacts on native grass species. Besides changes in aboveground biomass, addition of N and P also led, although to a lesser extent, to changes in the root morphology and biomass, but these responses were modulated by seasonal variation in soil moisture. The results suggest that environmental changes in nutrient availability can lead to important consequences for diversity and functioning of this savanna where the numerous rare species have more chance to persist under dystrophic conditions as some species that tend to be dominant would be less competitive.
20146657| Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis) and the evergreen holm oak (Quercus ilex) dominate forest areas of the Mediterranean Basin. Both species regenerate abundantly after fires: pine through seedlings and holm oak through resprouts. Cumulative nutrient losses caused by frequent fires may have decreased soil nutrient availability in such areas. To assess the role of nitrogen and phosphorus as limiting factors for growth of these species during post-fire recovery, a field fertilisation and competition experiment was conducted in a 5-year post-fire shrubland on calcareous soil, where naturally-regenerated saplings of Aleppo pine and resprouts of interior holm oak (Quercus ilex subsp. rotundifolia) coexist. Three years after fertilisation, relative basal area increment was 56% greater in pines fertilised with 250 kg P ha than in non fertilised ones. N fertilisation had small or no effects. Interactions between N and P fertilisation were not observed. Growth of Aleppo pine only increased with P fertilisation when neighbours were removed. Hence, the negative effect of neighbours on growth was greater when P availability was enhanced by fertilisation. In contrast, holm oak was able to grow more (110%) in response to increased P supply even without neighbour removal. A common garden experiment was then conducted with potted seedlings to investigate whether the suggested higher competitive capacity of holm oak for P held under a range of P amendments on different soils and competitive situations. P fertilisation increased seedling biomass yield of both species. When P availability increased, a negative effect of neighbours on growth was observed for holm oak and in 70 a lesser extent for Aleppo pine. In conclusion, in the field, holm oak resprouts showed higher competitive ability for P uptake compared to Aleppo pine saplings, but in potted seedlings in common garden conditions this trend was not observed. Therefore holm oak is not always competitively superior to Aleppo pine for P. Potted seedlings of both species had a notable plasticity in shoot/root biomass allocation, but only holm oak increased its proportional allocation to roots when neighbours were present. P availability can be a key factor in growth and competitive relations of these two species, but effects differ depending on soil type, individual age, regeneration type (i.e., seedling versus resprouts), and competitive situation. 
20146856| As a reference for ongoing studies reconstructing past vegetation, climate and environment, pollen spectra in tundra peat profiles from Svalbard, were investigated. The base of tundra peat cores collected from Ny lesund, Stuphallet, Blomstrand and Isdammen has been C dated to 350-490 BP, 5710 BP, 4670 BP and 700-900 BP, respectively. The Stuphallet and Blomstrand (Brggerhalvya) peat profiles were composed of a peat developed in a nutrient enriched and wet tundra environment of steep birdcliffs. Pollen concentrations were low, Brassicaceae pollen dominated the whole profile. In contrast, the Ny lesund and Isdammen profiles contained high pollen concentrations and suggest a nutrient-poor, dry tundra environment. Pollen of the polar willow, Salix polaris, occurred commonly throughout all four peat profiles. In the relatively high resolution (10 years per peat core sample) analysis of the Ny lesund core, starting before or at the beginning of the Little Ice Age (LIA, 16th-mid 19th century), dominance of Saxifraga oppositifolia indicates a cold and dry climate, followed by a decline of Saxifraga oppositifolia and gradual increase of Salix polaris after the LIA, which indicates a moist and milder climate. 
20051148|Size variability in plant populations has been extensively studied and much of this inquiry has focused on the types of competition that are involved in increasing or decreasing size inequality. It is often assumed that competition for light is size-asymmetric, meaning that a plant can potentially dominate a competitive relationship through shading if it is taller than its competitor. The light resources obtained by the taller plant are thus disproportionate to its size. In contrast, competition for soil resources may be more size-symmetric, the amount of soil nutrients obtained seems to be in direct proportion to a plant's size. Most studies examining belowground competition have used homogeneously distributed nutrient resources. Soil homogeneity could make size-asymmetric belowground competition unlikely, but homogeneity is not often found in nature. In this study I use a greenhouse pot experiment utilizing Ipomoea tricolor to examine the hypothesis that size-asymmetric competition for soil nutrients may result when soil resource distribution is spatially heterogeneous. The results did not support the hypothesis of belowground size-asymmetric competition. Differences between experimental treatments and controls were not statistically significant size-symmetric competition. Implications of these results are discussed.
40305610|Like native species, exotics form part of the mosaic structure of plant communities. However, their role in these communities is unclear. Thus, we ask, are invading exotic species present in recognizable microhabitats within plant communities? We compared the microhabitat of exotic species and random locations to determine if exotic plants occupied a recognizable subset of habitats within three barren communities. Fourteen exotic species were identified. The factors that characterized their habitats varied between barrens and among species. Considered as a group, exotic microhabitats comprised a subset of available habitats within the barrens, specifically, edge habitats rather than the open conditions of the barrens interior. Soil properties such as low temperature or neutral pH, and high litter or woody species cover, were common factors associated with the occurrence of exotics. Individual exotic species occupied different habitats within those identified for exotics as a group, but the range of variation between the different species was not generally significant. Within each barren, exotics occupied a distinct subset of microhabitats. This distribution suggests that exotics are not widely dispersed within these areas. Site conditions may be restricting the establishment of exotics to specific microhabitats, and in addition, some exotics may be altering the microhabitats that they colonize. Therefore, management efforts toward maintaining open conditions in the barrens may also discourage further encroachment by exotics into these areas.
40802419|We analysed the morpho-functional response of grassland species to a grazing intensity gradient (1-3.5 sheep ha) in the Mediterranean-type climate region of Chile. A total of nine morphofunctional traits (with a total of 24 attributes) were determined for 79 herbaceous plant species. Valuation of the traits enabled calculation of the reproductive, vegetative and defensive potentials for each species. A classification analysis for species x potentials identified five groups of plant functional strategies, and we analysed their responses along a grazing intensity gradient both for native and non-native species. The defensive potential of the species was negatively correlated with reproductive but was not significant in relation to vegetative potential. Grazing intensification favoured the presence of species with high defensive potential, to the detriment of those with high reproductive potential. This process affected both native and non-native species, but was more intense in the former presenting higher defensive potential. The functional group with a higher defensive strategy showed an increase in relative frequency with grazing intensity. However, self-defence alone is insufficient. This group also presents a certain reproductive potential that ensures the persistence of its annual or biennial species. The functional group combining high reproductive and vegetative potentials is the one that exhibits the biggest decrease in relative frequency due to intensified grazing. This group, however, is dominant in all the stocking treatments. All the functional groups identified include both native and non-native species, although the former dominate in those with greater defensive potential.
40212846|Water uptake by plant roots is a main process controlling water balance in field profiles and vital for agro-ecosystem management. Based on the sap flow measurements for maize plants (Zea mays L.) in a field under natural wet- and dry-soil conditions, we studied the effect of vertical root distribution on root water uptake and the resulted changes of profile soil water. The observations indicate that depth of the most densely rooted soil layer was more important than the maximum rooting depth for increasing the ability of plants to cope with the shortage of water. Occurrence of the most densely rooted layer at or below 30-cm soil depth was very conducive to maintaining plant water supply under the dry-soil conditions. In the soil layers colonized most densely by roots, daytime effective soil water saturation (S) always dropped dramatically due to the high-efficient local water depletion. Restriction of the rooting depth markedly increased the difference of S between the individual soil layers particularly under the dry-soil conditions due likely to the physical non-equilibrium of water flow between the layers. This study highlights the importance of root distribution and pattern in regulating soil water use and thereby improving endurance of plants to seasonal droughts for sustainable agricultural productivity.
20050417|During the last few decades many experiments have been performed to evaluate the responses of plants to enhanced solar UV-B radiation (280-320 nm) that may occur because of stratospheric ozone depletion; most of them were performed in controlled environment conditions where plants were exposed to low photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) levels and high UV-B irradiance. Since environmental radiative regimes can play a role in the response of plants to UV-B enhancement, it appears doubtful whether it is valid to extrapolate the results from these experiments to plants grown in natural conditions. The objective of this work was to evaluate the effects on physiology and morphology of a bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) cultivar Nano Bobis, exposed to supplemental UV radiation in the open-air. UV-B radiation was supplied by fluorescent lamps to simulate a 20% stratospheric ozone reduction. Three groups of plants were grown: control (no supplemental UV), UV-A treatment (supplementation in the UV-A band) and UV-B treatment (supplemental UV-B and UV-A radiation). Each group was replicated three times. After 33 days of treatment plants grown under UV-B treatment had lower biomass, leaf area and reduced leaf elongation compared to UV-A treatment. No significant differences were detected in photosynthetic parameters, photosynthetic pigments and UV-B absorbing compounds among the three groups of plants. However, plants exposed to UV-A treatment showed a sort of 'stimulation' of their growth when compared to the control. The results of this experiment showed that plants may be sensitive to UV-A radiation, thus it is difficult to evaluate the specific effects of UV-B (280-320 nm) radiation from fluorescent lamps and it is important to choose the appropriate control. Environmental conditions strongly affect plant response to UV radiation so further field studies are necessary to assess the interaction between UV-B exposure and meteorological variability.
20146638|Summer wildfires and autumn torrential rainfall are the background to the development of one of the most important environmental problems in the western Mediterranean area: erosion, degradation of soil structure and desertification. These processes especially affect plant communities located in old abandoned fields where woody sprouters are practically absent. Under these conditions, post-fire vegetation cover is dependent on obligate seeders and, in the short term, especially on resprouting perennial grasses. Brachypodium retusum is a rhizomatous perennial grass that plays a particularly important role in the resilience of these fire-prone Mediterranean ecosystems. In Mediterranean gorse shrublands, during the first few years after a fire, this species represents 90% of plant cover and biomass. The recurrence or severity of fire does not seem to affect the regeneration capacity of this species. After two years, even under high fire frequency (12 years) and high fire severity (&gt 400 C), it recovers both cover and biomass. Nevertheless, this species, a key factor in the control of soil erosion, is extremely affected by erosion processes. A single extreme rainfall event reduces the rate of regeneration of B. retusum by about 50%. The reduction in the protective cover of this species may result in degradation and eventual self-induced degrading process in the ecosystem.
20051222|The controls of seedling emergence and survival determine the potential distribution of adult plants and, thereby, plant community structure. Seed availability, competition from established neighbors, and seedlings predation may all limit seedling recruitment. In this field experiment, we followed the emergence and survival of seedlings of three perennial forbs, Achillea millefolium, Hypericum perforatum, and Monarda fistulosa, in old-fields in southeastern Michigan, USA. As adults, all three have aromatic foliage that may deter herbivory, but seedlings may be more susceptible than adults. To establish the relative importance of potential controls on seedling numbers, we manipulated seed availability through seed additions, the influence of competitors by neighbor-removals, and the influence of insect herbivores with insecticide in a fully factorial field experiment. Seed addition and insecticide never affected seedling emergence for any species. Competition from established neighbors controlled seedling emergence for all three species and decreased Achillea survival. Insecticide significantly increased Monarda seedling survival in competition plots, significantly increased Hypericum survival in open plots, and had no effect on Achillea. Notably, insecticide increased survival of the native Monarda fistulosa more than the two introduced species. While neighbors strongly reduced emergence and survival of all three species, herbivores acted on a species-specific basis. These results suggest the differential effects of insects may contribute more to the seedling species composition and abundance patterns than the less-selective influence of competition.
20146748| The effect of temperature on the level of dormancy of primary and secondary dormant Carex pendula and Carex remota seeds was investigated. Primary dormant and secondary dormant seeds were stratified for 4 weeks at 5, 11, 13, and 15 C, respectively, and tested for germination at 15/5 C in light. To obtain secondary dormant seeds, primary dormant seeds were stratified at 5 C and afterwards at 25 C for 4 weeks. Germination tests were carried out in water and in 25 mol KNO-solution to examine differences in sensitivity to nitrate between seeds relieved from primary and secondary dormancy. In both species, seeds with primary and with induced secondary dormancy showed no significant differences in germination. The two sedges showed significant differences in the effect of stratification temperatures between primary and secondary dormant seeds. Primary dormant seeds of C. pendula showed high germination (&gt 80%) in nitrate-solution after stratification at all temperatures, while only temperatures of 5, 11, and 13 C led to higher germination in nitrate-solution in secondary dormant seeds. Germination percentages of primary and of secondary dormant C. pendula seeds in water increased to a higher extent only after stratification at 5 and 11 C; stratification of 11 C was more effective in secondary than in primary dormant seeds. The only temperature that relieved primary dormancy in C. remota seeds was 5 C where germination in water and nitrate-solution was &gt90%. Germination of secondary dormant seeds was increased by stratification at 11 C independent of the test solution but higher germination after stratification at 13 C occurred only in nitrate-solution. The results support the existence of physiological differences in the regulation of primary and secondary dormancy by temperature, and in the reaction of nitrate, at least in C. remota. 
41412363|Although soil nutrients can influence the defence strategy of plants that have multiple defence traits, to date, there have been few studies to examine this. To evaluate the effect of soil nutrients on multiple plant defences, we cultivated Mallotus japonicus under three soil nutritional conditions in the field, and experimentally examined the expression of a physical defence trait (trichomes), chemical traits (pellucid dots), and biotic traits (extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) and pearl bodies) of the plants, and the number of ants visiting them. Under the low soil nutritional condition, plants strongly expressed the physical defence by trichomes and chemical defence by pellucid dots, meaning that the young plants adopted direct defences under the poor soil nutritional condition. Under the high soil nutritional condition, in contrast, the plants strongly expressed the indirect defence traits. They produced abundant EFNs and pearl bodies, and attracted many ants. These results suggest that young plants of M. japonicus use different defence modes in response to different soil nutritional conditions.
24553690|Woody plant encroachment alters the structure and function of rangeland ecosystems. The objective of this study was to explore the association between woody plant encroachment and various ecosystem properties (i.e. vascular plant species diversity, richness, evenness, soil organic matter, herbaceous biomass, leaf litter and bare ground cover) in a semiarid savanna rangeland, and also to test whether the relationships were influenced by woody species composition, elevation and site. We carried out a vegetation survey in four rangeland sites in the lower Omo region of southwestern Ethiopia, and regressed each one of the ecosystem properties, separately, against woody plant density, elevation and site using multiple linear regressions. We found that vascular plant species diversity, richness and evenness increased with woody plant density, most likely due to increased spatial heterogeneity and soil microclimate improvement. Bare ground cover increased significantly, whereas herbaceous biomass and soil organic matter did not respond to woody encroachment. In a subsequent investigation, we used a redundancy analysis to assess whether ecosystem properties were influenced by the identity of encroaching woody plant species. Species diversity and richness responded positively to Lannea triphylla, whereas leaf litter responded positively to Grewia tenax and G. villosa. Our findings suggest that woody plant encroachment in a semiarid rangeland does alter ecosystem properties. However, its impact is highly variable, influenced by a set of factors including the level of encroachment and identity of encroaching woody species.
20146651|We compared the temporal and micro-spatial patterning of seedling emergence and establishment of two cohorts of perennial grasses and shrubs in the southern Monte, Argentina. Samplings were carried out in two contrasting areas (grazed and non-grazed) during four years. We found lower densities of emerged and established seedlings of perennial grasses in the grazed relative to the non-grazed area. Conversely, emerged seedlings of shrubs did not vary between the grazed and the non-grazed area and densities of established shrub seedlings were higher in the grazed than in the non-grazed area. We only found differences between cohorts in seedling emergence of perennial grasses. These differences could be associated with the amount of precipitation in the year previous to the emergence. Both in the grazed and non-grazed area, seedlings of perennial grasses were concentrated at the periphery of plant patches. We defined a plant patch as a discrete unit of the spatial pattern of vegetation surrounded by, at least, 20 cm of bare soil from the nearest neighbour patch. Emergence in perennial grasses was more frequent at the southern/western patch-periphery than at other patch-periphery locations. Established seedlings of perennial grasses, however, were homogeneously distributed throughout patch periphery. Emergence in shrubs was more frequent at the centre and periphery of patches than at inter-patch microsites. In contrast, established seedlings of shrubs were homogeneously distributed among microsites. Our results suggests that differential seedling establishment between life forms is the outcome of complex biotic and abiotic interactions and feedbacks at the patch level between seedlings and established plants. Both life forms appear to have a different role in the origin, dynamics, and maintenance of spotting vegetation. Because of the ability to establish both at inter-patch and patch microsites, shrubs could be identified as colonizers or initiators of small plant patches in bare soil or they may contribute to increase the cover and size of pre-existing plant patches. Both processes would be promoted in grazed areas. Due to the ability to establish at patch peripheries, perennial grasses would contribute to the isodiametric growth of pre-existing patches, preferentially in non-grazed areas.
23362522|This work addresses the structural characterization of Juniperus oxycedrus-dominated woodlands in west-central Spain, as well as the analysis of the regeneration of this species in the presence of other species (mainly Quercus ilex) as a function of different environmental and land-use factors. The two densest populations of the species were sampled and different physiographic and land-use parameters were obtained. First, a structural characterization, specifically focused on regeneration, was carried out, based on the count of individuals and their classification according to their size (seedlings, saplings, or adults) and position (either beyond or below the canopy). The use of Generalized Linear Models (GLM) and Regression Trees permitted the identification and analysis of environmental and land-use variables significantly related to regeneration. Juniper woodlands in this part of Spain generally show a remarkable level of regeneration, although some significant differences were detected between the two existing populations. Of the factors studied, time since regeneration started, elevation, and soil rock surface cover influence J. oxycedrus regeneration at most of the individual classes considered, indicating the significance of these variables in this species regeneration. Canopy cover and depth of the organic layer and zone also affect several of the recruitment classes. Furthermore, radiation, the time elapsed since regeneration started, elevation, and aspect affect stand structure to a significant extent. The results of this study enlarge the knowledge on J. oxycedrus regeneration and woodland structure, providing helpful information for the conservation of these protected habitats.
41508789|In order to assess the impact of seed removal and seedling establishment for four species of pines, we designed experiments with and without the exclusion of seed removers in three vegetation types (pine forest, oak-alder forest, and subalpine grassland). Seed removal was significantly different between species of pines (P < 0.01), as was the interaction between the vegetation types and category of exclusion (remover) (P < 0.0001). The significant difference in terms of seed removal was between P. patula and P. montezumae (33.0 and 17.9%, respectively). Seed removal was significant between pine forestwithout exclusion (20.0%) versus oakalder forestwithout exclusion (7.0%). There was significant interaction between seedling establishment of the pine species and vegetation type (P < 0.0001). Highlighting differences between the pine forestP. teocote (84.1%) versus oak-alder forestP. patula (19.0%), oak-alder forestP. pseudostrobus (45.0%), pine forestP. patula (20.2%), pine forestP. pseudostrobus (45.6%), subalpine grasslandP. montezumae (24.3%), subalpine grasslandP. patula (27.9%), and subalpine grasslandP. pseudostrobus (17.5%). The impact of the food preferences of rodents and other granivores for P. patula and P. pseudostrobus seeds, as well as the poor survival of seedlings of these species in the pine and oak-alder forest are both factors which may explain the dominance of P. teocote in the study region.
23500339|Nectar robbing may have an indirect negative effect on plant reproduction by discouraging legitimate pollinator species from visiting robbed flowers. In this study, we set up a 2  2 factorial design with nectar-robbing ants and hummingbird pollination to test for non-additive effects on fruit set, seed mass, and seed germination of the leafless mistletoe Tristerix aphyllus (Loranthaceae). Even though ants caused conspicuous damage at the base of the floral tubes, nectar availability was reduced by only 8 % in the presence of ants. The green-backed firecrown Sephanoides sephaniodes was insensitive to the presence of ants. Rather, the bird responded to flower number and the presence or the absence of damage, but not to the extent of damage within inflorescences. As hummingbirds were largely insensitive to variation in nectar robbing, the interaction ant  hummingbird had no effect on plant-reproductive success. Thus, the factorial experiment did not provide evidence for indirect negative effects of nectar robbing on plant reproduction. These results suggest that indirect effects of nectar robbers on pollinator behaviour may occur under a more restricted set of conditions than those previously considered. We suggest that the low amount of nectar removed by nectar-robbing ants was insufficient for hummingbirds to avoid robbed flowers, which restricted the potential for non-additive effects.
20146762|The riparian vegetation of a basin in the NW Spain was studied to establish its spatial variation pattern and to relate floristic and structural differences in the community to environmental factors. Eighty-seven sampling units in 43 sampling stations were used. Samples were classified in 5 groups using Two Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN). Three groups represented reaches with riparian wood along their banks: Mediterranean alderwoods and shrubby willow woods. The remaining two corresponded to floodplains with vegetation colonizing moderately eutrophicated deposits of gravel. Structural characteristics of richness and diversity differentiated the alder woods. In these, the shaded environment created by the woody species limited herbaceous vegetation development. This was dominated by Carex acuta subsp. broteriana. Classification and CCA ordination results were compared. The TWINSPAN groups could be recognized in the CCA graph. The ordination was related to a pollution gradient associated with altitude. This pollution gradient involved bank ruderalization, incorporation of nitrophilous species and a decrease in the vegetation quality. The influence of the lithological features on vegetation was also evident.
20050906|The coastal prairie ecoregion is located along the northwestern coastal plain of the Gulf of Mexico in North America. Because of agricultural and urban development, less than 1% of the original 3.4 million ha of this ecosystem type remains in native condition, making it one of the most endangered ecosystems in North America. The objective of this study was to characterize the vegetation and environmental relationships in a relatively pristine example of lowland coastal prairie in order to provide information for use in conservation and restoration. The study area was a small, isolated prairie located near the southern boundary of the coastal prairie region. Samples were taken along three parallel transects that spanned the prairie. Parameters measured included species composition, elevation, soil characteristics, indications of recent disturbance, above-ground biomass, and light penetration through the plant canopy. Fifty-four species were found in the 107 0.25-m plots and a total of 96 species were found at the site. Only two non-native species occurred in sample plots, both of which were uncommon. Cluster analysis was used to identify six vegetation groups, which were primarily dominated by members of the Poaceae or Asteraceae. A conspicuous, natural edaphic feature of the prairie was the presence of 'mima' mounds, which are raised areas approximately 0.5 to 1 m high and 5 to 10 m across. Indicator species analysis revealed a significant number of species that were largely restricted to mounds and these were predominately upland and colonizing species. Ordination was performed using nonmetric, multidimensional scaling. The dominant environmental influence on species composition was found to be elevation and a host of correlated factors including those associated with soil organic content. A secondary group of factors, consisting primarily of soil cations, was found to explain additional variance among plots. Overall, this prairie was found to contain plant associations that are now rare in the surrounding landscape. Within the prairie, plant groups were largely separated by a suite of environmental conditions associated with topography. These results suggest that conservation and restoration efforts will need to carefully consider local topographic influences in order to be successful.
20050807|Increasing awareness of the importance of scale and landscape structure to landscape processes and concern about loss of biodiversity has resulted in efforts to understand patterns of biodiversity across multiple scales. We examined plant species distributions and their relationships to landscape structure at varying spatial scales across a pine barrens landscape in northern Wisconsin, U.S.A. We recorded plant species cover in 1  1 m plots every 5 m along a 3575 m transect, along with variables describing macro- and micro-landscape structure. A total of 139 understory plant species were recorded. The distributions of many species appeared to be strongly associated with landscape structural features, such as distinct management patches and roads. TWINSPAN and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) identified three groups of species that overlapped extensively in the ordination, possibly reflecting the relatively homogeneous nature of disturbance in the pine barrens landscape. Distribution of understory plants did not reflect all of the patch types we identified along the transect; plot ordination and classification resulted in three to five plot groups that differed in niche breadth. Wavelet transforms showed varying relationships between landscape features and plant diversity indices (Shannon--Weiner, Simpson's Dominance) at different resolutions. Wavelet variances indicated that patterns of Shannon diversity were dominated by coarse resolutions ranging from 900-1500 m, which may have been related to topography. Patterns of Simpson's Dominance were dominated by 700 m resolution, possibly associated with canopy cover. However, a strong correspondence between overstory patch type and diversity was found for several patch types at ranges of scales that varied by patch type. Effects of linear features such as roads were apparent in the wavelet transforms at resolutions of about 5-1000 m, suggesting roads may have an important impact on plant diversity at landscape scales. At broad scales, landscape context appeared more important to diversity than individual patches, suggesting that changes in structure at fine resolutions could alter overall diversity characteristics of the landscape. Therefore, a hierarchical perspective is necessary to recognize potential large-scale change resulting from small-scale activities.
20051089|Seeds of Plantago lanceolata were collected in a dune grassland ecosystem in the Netherlands. Plants were grown in a greenhouse for 61 days under either low or high nutrient conditions and were exposed to four different levels of biologically effective UV-B radiation. The highest UV-B exposure level simulated 30% reduction of the stratospheric ozone layer during summertime in the Netherlands. Total biomass production of plants at low nutrient supply was 50% lower compared to plants grown at high nutrient supply, while net photosynthesis was decreased by only 12%. Increased levels of UV-B reduced biomass production under non-limiting nutrient conditions only. Biomass production of plants grown at limited nutrient supply was not affected by UV-B. This response was correlated to increased accumulation of carbohydrates under nutrient limitation, which agrees well with the carbon/nutrient balance hypothesis. It is concluded that the increased accumulation of carbon in nutrient-stressed plants, may lead to a reduction of UV-B induced damage because of increased foliar UV-B absorbance by enhanced accumulation of phenolic compounds and leaf thickening.
40212969|The role of seed bank, seed rain, and regeneration from seedlings and sprouts after swidden agriculture was compared in 5-, 10- and 20-yearold secondary forest and in a primary forest in Bragantina, Par, Brazil. The seed bank (0-5 cm soil depth) was largest in the 5-year-old forest (1190  284 seeds m) and decreased nearly tenfold with age to 137  19 seeds m in the primary forest. The highest seed rain was in the 5-year-old forest (883  230 seeds m year) and the least in the primary forest (220  80 seeds m year). Large plants (5 cm dbh) had more individuals and species that regenerated from sprouts than from seeds and the most abundant tree species in the secondary forest stands of all ages appear to be maintained by sprouting. The smaller individuals (1 m tall, <5 cm dbh) in the 5-year-old forest were mainly from sprouts, but those in the older secondary forests originated mainly from seeds. These results show that at the beginning of succession, although many species can be introduced to swidden fallow from seed bank and seed rain, it is the sprout that is the main source of recruits of primary forest species in secondary forests in Bragantina.
20146909|Viola mirabilis is abundant in Estonia; Viola elatior is rare. We tested whether these species differ in their competitive responses to a common grass. We used a pot experiment in which individuals of each violet species grew with 0, 2, 4, or 8 individuals of Festuca ovina in natural soil. The response patterns of shoot and root mass and leaf numbers of the two species were similar: the biomass and leaf number of both violet species decreased with increasing grass density. The decrease of root mass of the rare V. elatior was significantly greater, and the decrease of leaf number tended to be greater, than that of the common V. mirabilis. We conclude that the stronger competitive response of V. elatior compared to V. mirabilis might be one reason behind its lower regional and local abundance.
20146754|This study examined the changes in distribution patterns of 13 herbaceous plant species from 1998 to 2000 in ditch banks along the edges of arable fields in the Netherlands. The objective was to test if spatial dynamics could be related to spatial isolation and disturbance of habitat and to the dispersal and seed bank characteristics of the species. Knowledge of these relations should be used to increase the effectivity of agri-environmental schemes aiming at an increase of botanical diversity. All species frequently colonized empty patches and populations in occupied patches frequently went extinct. Most colonization events occurred within 50 m of conspecific source patches in the preceding year, but colonization events in patches at distances more than 200 m from conspecific source patches were also observed. The colonization probabilities decreased with isolation distance. For nine species this relation was statistically significant, after correction for year and habitat. The extinction probabilities increased with isolation. For only four species this relation was statistically significant. Both colonization and extinction probabilities were more often statistically significant related to isolation for species with transient seed banks than species with persistent seed banks. Implications for management options aiming at survival of plant species in fragmented landscapes are discussed.
40305592|The differential accumulation or loss of carbon and nutrients during decomposition can promote differentiation of wetland ecosystems, and contribute to landscape-scale heterogeneity. Tree islands are important ecosystems because they increase ecological heterogeneity in the Everglades landscape and in many tropical landscapes. Only slight differences in elevation due to peat accumulation allow the differentiation of these systems from the adjacent marsh. Hydrologic restoration of the Everglades landscape is currently underway, and increased nutrient supply that could occur with reintroduction of freshwater flow may alter these differentiation processes. In this study, we established a landscape-scale, ecosystem-level experiment to examine litter decomposition responses to increased freshwater flow in nine tree islands and adjacent marsh sites in the southern Everglades. We utilized a standard litterbag technique to quantify changes in mass loss, decay rates, and phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N) and carbon (C) dynamics of a common litter type, cocoplum (Chrysobalanus icaco L.) leaf litter over 64 weeks. Average C. icaco leaf degradation rates in tree islands were among the lowest reported for wetland ecosystems (0.23  0.03 yr We found lower mass loss and decay rates but higher absolute mass C, N, and P in tree islands as compared to marsh ecosystems after 64 weeks. With increased freshwater flow, we found generally greater mass loss and significantly higher P concentrations in decomposing leaf litter of tree island and marsh sites. Overall, litter accumulated N and P when decomposing in tree islands, and released P when decomposing in the marsh. However, under conditions of increased freshwater flow, tree islands accumulated more P while the marsh accumulated P rather than mineralizing P. In tree islands, water level explained significant variation in P concentration and N: P molar ratio in leaf tissue. Absolute P mass increased strongly with total P load in tree islands (r = 0.81). In the marsh, we found strong, positive relationships with flow rate. Simultaneous C and P accumulation in tree island and mineralization in adjacent marsh ecosystems via leaf litter decomposition promotes landscape differentiation in this oligotrophic Everglades wetland. However, results of this study suggest that variation in flow rates, water levels and TP loads can shift differential P accumulation and loss leading to unidirectional processes among heterogeneous wetland ecosystems. Under sustained high P loading that could occur with increased freshwater flow, tree islands may shift to litter mineralization, further degrading landscape heterogeneity in this system, and signaling an altered ecosystem state.
20050825|Among the several hypotheses on selective advantage of seed dispersal, the directed dispersal hypothesis explains the advantage of non-random seed transportation by animals to particular patch type suitable for offspring establishment. We tested this hypothesis in dispersal of a large-seeded, rodent-dispersed tree (Aesculus turbinata) in a temperate forest. We investigated the change in location of seeds through secondary dispersal, and the survival and growth of seedlings at their destinations. Hemispherical photographs taken at the seed locations both before and after secondary dispersal were used to evaluate the consequence of dispersal. Survival and growth rates of seedlings were measured to evaluate the responses of seedlings to light, the most important factor for seedling establishment in A. turbinata. Survival and growth rates of the seedlings were both positively correlated with light conditions, indicating the advantage of dispersal to the microsites with more light available. However, light levels at seed destinations were not significantly different from those at the locations of seeds before secondary dispersal nor those of the surrounding background forest floor. Survival of newly-emerged seedlings varied as a function of light level but not seedling density. This suggests that the effect of density-dependent mortality was small relative to light-dependent mortality during the seedling stage. Therefore we conclude that the directed dispersal hypothesis for this species is rejected, and that the role of rodents in dispersing large seeds secondarily is more important for finding suitable sites merely by enlarging seed shadow (mean dispersal distance = 12.2-44.7 m during the 3 years studied, max. = 41.5-114.5 m) and relatively less important for escaping natural enemies.
20146633| Decomposition of typhoon-generated and normal leaf litter and their release patterns for eight nutrient elements were investigated over 3 yr using the litterbag technique in a subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest on Okinawa Island, Japan. Two common tree species, Castanopsis sieboldii and Schima wallichii, representative of the vegetation and differing in their foliar traits, were selected. The elements analyzed were N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, Al, Fe and Mn. Dry mass loss at the end of study varied in the order: typhoon green leaves &gt typhoon yellow leaves &gt normal leaves falling for both species. For the same litter type, Schima decomposed faster than Castanopsis. Dry mass remaining after 2 yr of decomposition was positively correlated with initial C:N and C:P ratios. There was a wide range in patterns of nutrient concentration, from a net accumulation to a rapid loss in decomposition. Leaf litter generated by typhoons decomposed more rapidly than did the normal litter, with rapid losses for N and P. Analysis of initial quality for the different litter types showed that the C:P ratios were extremely high (range 896-2467) but the P:N ratios were &lt 0.05 (range 0.02-0.04), indicating a likely P-limitation for this forest. On average 32% less N and 60% less P was retranslocated from the typhoon-generated green leaves than from the normal litter for the two species, Castanopsis and Schima. An estimated 2.13 g m yr more N and 0.07 g m yr more P was transferred to the soil as result of typhoon disturbances, which were as high as 52% of N and 74% of P inputted from leaf litter annually in a normal year. Typhoon-driven maintenance of rapid P cycling appears to be an important mechanism by which growth of this Okinawan subtropical forest is maintained. 
20146848| We studied the effects of elevated CO (180-200 ppmv above ambient) on growth and chemistry of three moss species (Sphagnum palustre, S. recurvum and Polytrichum commune) in a lowland peatland in the Netherlands. Thereto, we conducted both a greenhouse experiment with both Sphagnum species and a field experiment with all three species using MiniFACE (Free Air CO Enrichment) technology during 3 years. The greenhouse experiment showed that Sphagnum growth was stimulated by elevated CO in the short term, but that in the longer term (1 year) growth was probably inhibited by low water tables and/or down-regulation of photosynthesis. In the field experiment, we did not find significant changes in moss abundance in response to elevated CO, although CO enrichment appeared to reduce S. recurvum abundance. Both Sphagnum species showed stronger responses to spatial variation in hydrology than to increased atmospheric CO concentrations. Polytrichum was insensitive to changes in hydrology. Apart from the confounding effects of hydrology, the relative lack of growth response of the moss species may also have been due to the relatively small increase in assimilated CO as achieved by the experimentally added CO. We calculated that the added CO contributed at most 32% to the carbon assimilation of the mosses, while our estimates based on stable C isotope data even suggest lower contributions for Sphagnum (24-27%). Chemical analyses of the mosses showed only small elevated CO effects on living tissue N concentration and C/N ratio of the mosses, but the C/N ratio of Polytrichum was substantially lower than those of the Sphagnum species. Continuing expansion of Polytrichum at the expense of Sphagnum could reduce the C sink function of this lowland Sphagnum peatland, and similar ones elsewhere, as litter decomposition rates would probably be enhanced. Such a reduction in sink function would be driven mostly by increased atmospheric N deposition, water table regulation for agricultural purposes and land management to preserve the early successional stage (mowing, tree and shrub removal), since these anthropogenic factors will probably exert a greater control on competition between Polytrichum and Sphagnum than increased atmospheric CO concentrations. 
41508711|Partitioning of soil CO flux (FS) into autotrophic and heterotrophic components depends on how the plant carbon is allocated above- vs. belowground and how the belowground carbon is allocated for respiration and production of roots and their microbial associations. Data of litterfall (FA), root respiration (FR), and FS of world old-growth or mature forests (> 45 ages) were compiled, and the relationship between carbon allocation above-vs. belowground (indexed as the FA/FS ratio) and FS partitioning (indexed as the FR/FS ratio) was examined. The FA/FS ratio ranged from 0.08 to 0.64 and was positively correlated with mean annual air temperature and mean annual precipitation. The ratio increased from boreal to temperate to tropical forests, and was higher in broadleaved forests than in coniferous forests. Site-specific belowground carbon use efficiency (BCUE, root production per unit carbon used by roots and microbial associations) varied from 0.10 to 0.87, contrasting with the common assumption of a constant BCUE. Sitespecific FR/FS ranged from 0.09 to 0.71 and increased with FS due to a decrease in BCUE. Deciduousness had a significant effect on the FR/FS ratios, with FR/FS ratios greater in deciduous forests than in evergreen forests. Methods of separating root respiration from soil heterotrophic respiration had a significant effect on estimated FR/FS. The estimated FR/FS ratio was negatively related to the FA/FS ratio, indicating that factors favouring carbon allocation belowground over aboveground will increase the autotrophic contribution to total soil respiration. The relatively low explaining power (r = 0.270) of this relationship resulted from deviations from assumptions of constant BCUE and a near steady-state belowground pools.
20051094|The combined effects of additional UV-B radiation and artificial wounding on leaf phenolics were studied in a short term field experiment with the drought semi-deciduous Mediterranean shrub Phlomis fruticosa L. The seedlings were grown under ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation (biologically equivalent to a 15% ozone depletion over Patras, 38.3 N, 29.1 E) for 7 months before wounding. Unexpectedly, supplemental UV-B radiation decreased leaf phenolics. Subsequently, wounding was effected by removing leaf discs from some of the plants, while the rest remained intact and served as controls. Wounding significantly increased phenolics of the wounded leaves and the increase was more pronounced under supplemental UV-B radiation. In addition, wounding had a significant positive effect on the phenolics of the opposite, intact leaf, but only under additional UV-B radiation. We conclude that UV-B radiation, wounding and their combination may affect the chemical defensive potential of Phlomis fruticosa. In addition, increased levels of phenolics after herbivore attack under field conditions may afford extra protection against enhanced UV-B radiation levels.
20051028|Species diversity of vascular epiphyte plant communities was studied in La Carbonera, a montane rain forest dominated by Podocarpaceae in the Venezuelan Andes. We compared the epiphyte communities of the primary, disturbed, and secondary forest areas of La Carbonera in order to augment the scarce knowledge on the effects of anthropogenic disturbance on these important elements of tropical vegetation. Diversity of vascular epiphytes (191 species in the whole forest area) was low in the disturbed and secondary areas (81 spp.) compared to adjacent primary forest (178 spp.). Four types of disturbed forest and secondary vegetation supported different numbers of epiphyte species, showing a decline with increasing degrees of disturbance (65 spp. along a road transect, 42 spp. on relict trees in disturbed forest, 13 spp. in a tree plantation and 7 spp. in a former clearing, both secondary vegetation units). Epiphytic species composition in primary and disturbed or secondary forest areas differed markedly: disturbed habitats harboured fewer fern and orchid species but more bromeliad species than the primary forest. Probably the families occurring only in primary forest sites of our study may be useful as bioindicators to determine the degree of disturbance in other habitats of mountain rain forests as well. Epiphyte abundance was also lower in disturbed habitats: a remnant emergent tree supported only about half as many epiphyte individuals as a member of the same species of similar size in the primary forest. The decrease in species numbers and abundance as well as the differences in species composition are mainly due to the less diverse phorophyte structure and less differentiated microclimate in the disturbed and secondary vegetation compared to the primary forest.
40305748|Because post-agricultural black alder woods have not been the subject of studies on forest recovery, the aim of the research was to investigate the process of colonization of their herb layer by woodland flora. Migration rates of 51 forest plant species in the herb layer of alder woods planted on abandoned meadows, bordering meso-and eutrophic forests, were studied. Mean migration rates calculated for typical wet alderwoods reached
41508722|We focused on responses to grazing by individual species and functional groups in relation to ecological thresholds in Mongolian rangelands, with repeated measures from the same ecological sites to account for rainfall variability. At all sites, even under rainfall fluctuations, there were robust combinations of indicator species that could be used to forewarn managers to take action to minimize the probability of crossing ecological thresholds. Depending on the landscape condition of each site, the cover of functional groups, which shared traits of perennial life history, grass or forb growth form, linear leaf shape, and alternate leaf attachment, or the cover of functional groups of woody shrubs dramatically decreased before an ecological threshold was crossed. Thus, across all sites, the responses of certain functional groups to grazing appeared to predict the crossing of an ecological threshold. The ecological indicators derived in this study should help to improve land managers' ability to prevent adverse changes in states before ecological thresholds are reached.
40540322|"Landscape modulators" are ecosystem engineers that have an impact on community structure by creating patches in the landscape mosaic. Our aim was to study the effect of evergreen-trees, as landscape modulators, on herbaceous plants in a Mediterranean maquis system in northern Israel. We examined the effects of canopy removal and cattle grazing on species richness, plant functional types, and rare plant species in two patch-types: (1) woody under tree canopy (or the location of a removed canopy); (2) herbaceous in open areas with no tree canopy. Patch-type and tree removal affected species richness and plant functional types. The extreme negative effect of the woody patch-type on species richness disappeared soon after the removal of the landscape modulator canopy. We conclude that the dominant effect of the evergreen woody landscape modulators can be regulated by canopy removal and grazing for maintaining patchtype and landscape diversities, and consequent high species richness in Mediterranean ecosystems, which is a main goal of global nature conservation policy.
20051062|Forest canopy structure (sensu latu) is the combination of forest texture (the qualitative and quantitative composition of the vegetation as to different morphological elements), and forest structure (sensu strictu, the spatial arrangement of these elements). Scale is an aspect of major importance. At a regional scale forest types can be distinguished, like broadleaf or coniferous forest. At local scale, distribution and size and shape of tree crowns, and the spatial distribution of leaves and branches within tree crowns determine to a large extent the canopy structure. Which components and sub-components are used, and also the scale at which their spatial arrangements are studied, is of great importance for the possible outcome of the analysis of canopy structure. This is specially the case when canopy structure is needed as a correlate to ecological questions, e.g., on habitat specificity of animals, or epiphytes. Methods available for describing and analysing canopy structure are discussed. At large scale levels remote sensing data are used to describe differences in structure. High-resolution radar images are used to describe canopy structure in detail and over large areas. Repeated measurements over time can be used for monitoring purposes. Ways to measure the three dimensional structure of (components within) individual trees in detail are being developed, and are coupled to physiological models. Currently, use of such methods is only feasible for small plants. Forest tomography (where the vegetation occupation and empty spaces are determined in horizontal and vertical slices of the forest) is proposed as a way to describe vertical and horizontal structure. Vegetation cover and occupation is analysed above grid points in a forest. As an example the vertical structure of a Cameroonian forest is described at several levels of detail. The research question asked should govern completely the choice of the parameters and the methods used for the description of forest canopy structure.
40305653|Small scale disturbances could act as patches that provide sites for the colonization of competitively inferior species, promoting the establishment of non-native species in some cases. We analyzed the vegetation associated with feral horse dung piles in montane pampas grasslands in Mid-East Argentina and described the changes following their abandonment, evaluating whether dung piles act as invasion windows, allowing the entrance of alien plant species. We estimated the portion of the study area directly covered by horse manure and dung height was used to estimate the time elapsed after the abandonment of each pile. Vegetation replacement on dung piles of different ages was assessed and compared with grassland controls using discriminant analysis. We used regression analysis to look for changes in vegetation cover, species richness, species diversity and evenness in response to height (age) of the dung piles, and principal component analyses (PCA) to identify groups of plants associated with different successional stages. We compared cover of alien plant species on dung piles with grassland controls using one-way ANOVA. On average, 2.5% of the study area was covered by horse dung. Total vegetation cover, species richness, diversity and evenness increased after the piles were abandoned. Characteristic plant groups were associated with initial, middle and last phases of the studied succession. Vegetation on the dung piles significantly differed from that in grassland controls and two species were consistently associated with dung piles: the invasive Red Star Thistle, Centaurea calcitrapa, and a native grazing-intolerant grass, Nassella clarazii. Non-native species cover was also higher in dung piles than in control plots. Dung piles cover a significant portion of grassland area in our study site, produce significant changes in the vegetation and are associated with some invasive alien plants that could eventually colonize more pristine areas in the vicinity. On the other hand, they might represent refuges for palatable species, since horses seem to avoid them for grazing.
20146855|In this review all recent field studies on the effects of UV-B radiation on bryophytes are discussed. In most of the studies fluorescent UV-B tubes are used to expose the vegetation to enhanced levels of UV-B radiation to simulate stratospheric ozone depletion. Other studies use screens to filter the UV-B part of the solar spectrum, thereby comparing ambient levels of UV-B with reduced UV-B levels, or analyse effects of natural variations in UV-B arising from stratospheric ozone depletion. Nearly all studies show that mosses are well adapted to ambient levels of UV-B radiation since UV-B hardly affects growth parameters. In contrast with outdoor studies on higher plants, soluble UV-B absorbing compounds in bryophytes are typically not induced by enhanced levels of UV-B radiation. A few studies have demonstrated that UV-B radiation can influence plant morphology, photosynthetic capacity, photosynthetic pigments or levels of DNA damage. However, there is only a limited number of outdoor studies presented in the literature. More additional, especially long-term, experiments are needed to provide better data for statistical meta-analyses. A mini UV-B supplementation system is described, especially designed to study effects of UV-B radiation at remote field locations under harsh conditions, and which is therefore suited to perform long-term studies in the Arctic or Antarctic. The first results are presented from a long-term UV-B supplementation experiment at Signy Island in the Maritime Antarctic.
20146510|Erythronium dens-canis is a geophyte which produces a single flower each season. The fruits produce small seeds with relatively large elaiosomes. We performed experiments to investigate primary and secondary seed dispersal mechanisms of this species in different habitats in the western part of the Cantabrian Range in northwest Spain. Sticky traps were used to measure primary dispersal of seeds up to 0.5 m from mother plants. Seed cafeteria experiments were performed in different habitats to examine the role of ants and rodents in secondary seed transport and seed predation. Our results indicate that: (a) primary seed dispersal is positively skewed (99% of seeds fall within 20 cm of the mother plant) and seed dispersal distances vary significantly among plants; (b) secondary dispersal is exclusively by myrmecochory, although the proportion of seeds removed by ants differs significantly among habitats; (c) ant species composition and abundances vary among habitats; and (d) freshly dropped seeds are more likely to be removed than seeds that have begun to dry out. We conclude that secondary dispersal of seeds is greatly influenced by habitat but not by small-scale microhabitat.
20146892|Both water and nutrients are limiting in arid environments, and desert plants have adapted to these limitations through numerous developmental and physiological mechanisms. In the Mono Basin, California, USA, co-dominant Sarcobatus vermiculatus and Chrysothamnus nauseosus ssp. consimilis are differentially N and P limited. We hypothesized that low leaf N resorption contributes to N-limitation in Sarcobatus and that low leaf P resorption contributes to P-limitation in Chrysothamnus. As predicted, Sarcobatus resorbed proportionally 1.7-fold less N than Chrysothamnus, but reduced leaf P in senescent leaves to lower levels than Chrysothamnus (8.0-10.8-fold lower based on leaf area or mass, respectively), consistent with N, but not P limitations in Sarcobatus. Again, as predicted, Chrysothamnus resorbed proportionally 2.0-fold less P than Sarcobatus yet reduced leaf N in senescent leaves to lower levels than Sarcobatus (1.8-1.3-fold lower based on leaf area or mass, respectively), consistent with P, but not N limitations in Chrysothamnus. Leaf N and P pools were approximately 50% of aboveground pools in both species during the growing season, suggesting leaf resorption can contribute significantly to whole plant nutrient retention. This was consistent with changes in leaf N vs. P concentration as plants grew from seedlings to adults. Our results support the conclusion that N-limitation in Sarcobatus and P-limitation in Chrysothamnus are in part caused by physiological (or other) constraints that prevent more efficient resorption of N or P, respectively. For these species, differential nutrient resorption may be a key physiological component contributing to their coexistence in this saline, low resource habitat.
23500366|A population of Buglossoides purpurocaerulea (L.) I.M. Johnst. (BoraginaceaeLithospermeae) located in Lecceto (Siena Province, Tuscany, central Italy) has been studied to compare floral nectar attributes and forager species between sun-exposed and shaded plants. Flower anthesis and maturity of sexual organs were also investigated. Average flower anthesis lasted 34 days. Stigma receptivity and anther dehiscence occurred on the first day. Nectar production also began on the first day and maximum production occurred on second-third day. Significantly greater volumes and total sugars were recorded in individuals exposed to the sun. Nectar HPLC analysis showed a similar hexose-dominant sugar profile for all the individuals with percentages of sucrose, glucose and fructose around 5, 48 and 47 %, respectively. Protein amino acids represent the 90 % of the overall free amino acids profile. Significant differences between relative percentages of serine and proline were found between sun-exposed and shaded individuals. Empis pennipes and Bombilyus major were the most frequent insect visitors to shaded and sun-exposed individuals, respectively. The hexose dominance of the nectar of B. purpurocaerulea, an exception among the Mediterranean Lithospermeae, may be related to the habitat where this plant generally grows, i.e. the forest-edge, and to pollination mainly performed by dipterans.
20147007|Phytomass structural characteristics are highly related to vegetation flammability. In fire-prone species like Mediterranean gorse, which accumulate standing dead fuel, susceptibility to fire is a function of fuel load, vegetation composition and fuel cover, and these characteristics change with time. Thus, for effective fuel control management, knowledge of the vegetation structural dynamics related to fire risk is crucial for preventing future fires. This study analyses structural dynamics in the above-ground phytomass of Ulex parviflorus shrublands in relation to different stages of flammability, i.e., the amount of time elapsed since the last fire. For this, 152 plants were cut from shrublands at different stages of development (young, mature and senescent), and various dimensional measurements were taken on each. The phytomass was separated into living or dead fuel fractions as well as into twigs or branches depending on the stem diameter. Basal diameter is the variable that best predicted Ulex parviflorus total phytomass as well as that of the different fractions. Both dimensional and phytomass variables increased with plant development. In the young shrublands Ulex parviflorus constitutes 54% of total phytomass, and Ulex parviflorus's dead twigs fraction accounts for 5% of total phytomass. In the mature and senescent shrublands, this species represents 80% of total shrubland phytomass, and dead twigs reach values greater than 40%. Our results show that structural changes in the fuel over short periods of time (young and mature) reveal critical periods in shrub development. Identification of these stages is a necessary tool for planning fuel control programmes.
20050983|We used a soil water simulation model and remotely sensed data to study the long-term dynamics of transpiration, evaporation, drainage and net primary production across a precipitation gradient in Northwestern Patagonia (Argentina). The proportion of precipitation transpired, the precipitation use efficiency and the transpiration use efficiency were constant across the gradient that covered a range of 150 to 600 mm. The proportion of water evaporated was higher than the proportion drained at the driest extreme of the gradient. The opposite relationship was observed at the wet extreme. Two important characteristics of arid-semiarid systems dominated by winter precipitation emerged from our analyses: the importance of drainage losses and the asynchrony between evaporation and transpiration fluxes. These characteristics of the water dynamics influence the relative abundance of plant functional types and are crucial to generate heterogeneity at the landscape level. The coefficient of variation (CV) of transpiration, evaporation and ANPP was, in general, lower than the CV of annual precipitation. This pattern suggests a buffering capacity of the ecosystem. The ecosystem would be able to damp at the functional level inter-annual changes in the availability of resources.
41429357|Indirect facilitation by shrubs has been suggested as a cost-effective way of regenerating oaks in forests of conservation interest. In this study, we tested whether shrubs can enhance growth in pedunculate oak (Quercus robur) by suppressing herbaceous competitors. We studied interactions between young oaks, shrubs, and/or herbaceous vegetation in an openfield experiment, in southern Sweden, over the first 3 years after planting. Oak saplings were grown in four competition treatments: no competing vegetation; with herbaceous vegetation; with shrubs; and with both herbaceous vegetation and shrubs. Competition from shrubs and herbaceous vegetation both reduced stem diameter and biomass accumulation, but they affected biomass partitioning differently. Saplings grown with competition from shrubs partitioned biomass primarily into height growth, while those saplings exposed to competition from herbaceous vegetation invested a relatively higher proportion in root growth. Competition between shrubs and herbaceous vegetation reduced the above-ground biomass of the herbaceous vegetation, resulting in an indirect facilitative effect for the oaks during the first 2 years after planting. However, during the third year, shrubs had a negative effect on biomass accumulation. In summary, results from this study suggest that shrubs indirectly facilitate biomass accumulation of oak saplings by suppressing herbaceous vegetation, possibly by reducing competition for below-ground resources. However, owing to the relatively short duration of positive net outcome for the oak, we recommend that a longer-term assessment of the interaction between oak regeneration and neighboring shrubs be made before the outcome of this study is applied to practical forestry.
20050630|Classification and ordination of plant formations are presented for a seasonally flooded plain of the Brazilian Pantanal. Phytosociological data were collected on 10 physiognomically distinct formations during the rainy, flood, and dry seasons. The degree of association among plant species was measured with Jaccard similarity index, and both Jaccard similarity index and Bray Curtis distance index were employed to classify sample units into similar groups. The ordination of plant species and sample units were performed with Correspondence Analysis. Four groups of plant formations were significantly distinct on a quantitative basis: marsh ponds/waterlogged basins, short grasslands, tall grassland/scrub, and forest-edges. These formation were ordered along a gradient of topographic relief from depressions with permanent standing water (marshes) through flats subject to seasonal flooding (grasslands and scrub) and mounds of sandy soil above the flood level (forests). Although hydroperiod appears to be one of the most important variables, the distribution of plant species within wetlands is most probably explained by the interaction of many additional factors. A few plant species could be used as indicators of the local hydrological and edaphic conditions, e.g., Eleocharis elegans, Aeschynomene fluminensis, Hydrolea spinosa, and Hymenachne amplexicaulis for marsh ponds, and Caperonia castaneifolia, Diodia kuntzei, and Eleocharis acutangula for waterlogged basins. The procedure presented in this study could be developed as a tool for the inventory and management of the Pantanal and other palustrine wetland habitats.
40305531|Soil seed banks are important to many plant communities and are recognized as an important component of management plans. Understanding seed bank composition and density is especially important when communities have been invaded by exotic species and must be managed to promote desirable species. We examined germinable soil seed banks in southern California coastal sage scrub (CSS) that is heavily invaded by exotic grasses and in adjacent exotic grassland. Soils from both communities had similar seed banks, dominated by high densities of exotic grass and forb species. Up to 4,000 exotic grass seeds and at least 400 exotic forb seeds/m were found in most soils, regardless of aboveground vegetation type. Native forbs averaged 400 seeds/m in grass-dominated areas and about 800 in shrub-dominated soils. Shrub seed density was <1 and <10 seeds/m in grass-and shrub-dominated areas, respectively, indicating that the shrub seed bank is not persistent compared to annuals. We also compared pre-and post-burn soil seed banks from one location that burned in October 2003. Late-season burning in both grass-and CSS-dominated areas disproportionately reduced exotic grass seed densities relative to native seed densities. The similarity of the seed banks in adjacent grass and shrub communities suggests that without intervention, areas currently dominated by CSS may become more similar to grass-dominated areas in terms of aboveground vegetation. In such areas, the first growing season following a wildfire is a window of opportunity for increasing native diversity at a time when density of exotic grass seeds is low.
23500414|In infertile environments, the spatial scale and distribution of favourable microsites may be an important determinant of vegetation patterns. Such patterns may be persistent although the association and causality may only be detectable during initial establishment. In this study we investigated experimentally how spatial variation on two different scales and species-specific traits affected seedling survival at an early successional site on Skeiarrsandur, a 1,000 km 2 homogeneous glacial outwash plain in SE-Iceland. Seedlings of eight native species were transplanted into six different micro-topographical combinations: three types of microsites (lee side of small stones and cushion plants, and control), located within two topographical features (shallow depressions and surrounding flats). Seedling survival was then recorded. Only 11 % of transplanted seedlings survived through the second winter, however seedlings that survived past the second growing season were likely to persist. Survival rates varied by species and were positively linked to seed size. Seedling survival was only weakly associated with spatial variation. The strongest association found was that survival was sometimes higher on flats compared to depressions. Sand accumulation in depressions might lower seedling survival there. We conclude that early plant establishment at the site, and the emergent vegetation mosaic, is most likely produced by the interaction of stochastic factors, such as the sand storms that intermittently rage across the plain and species-specific properties like seed size. However, in better-vegetated areas of Skeiarrsandur depressions often have higher moss and vascular plant cover than nearby flats, suggesting that moss may control vegetation patterns seen later in succession.
20146703| In a chalk grassland in north-western France, vegetation and seed rain were studied along two transects. We compared the efficiency of three types of seed traps (funnel traps, sticky traps, pots exposed in the field) to estimate the annual seed rain and to reveal various processes involved in plant community regeneration. Data were analysed to compare seed density, species richness and composition across seed traps and vegetation. Geostatistical analyses (semivariograms) were used to detect possible autocorrelation and to examine patterns of spatial variation in seed rain and vegetation. The results show that (1) funnel traps are most efficient (56 species, 8079 seeds.m). (2) Each type of seed traps brings different information about the processes involved in seed dispersal and seedling establishment. Sticky traps help to understand import and export of seeds in a community through anemochory. Funnel traps may provide a measure of the auto-regeneration capacity of the vegetation through its local seed production. Pot traps integrate various processes involved between seed dispersal and seedling emergence. (3) The exposition to environmental conditions generates marked spatial patterns in species richness measured in pots and in vegetation, selecting species able to survive. Pot traps indicate that numerous species producing seeds in standing vegetation are unable to establish in the field through seedling recruitment. Our study emphasizes the need of using different types of seed traps and spatial sampling configurations to assess the regenerative potential of standing vegetation and the various mechanisms involved in seed dispersal. A standardised protocol for seed rain sampling was finally developed. 
20050997|Pulse amplitude modulation fluorescence was used to investigate whether abscisic acid (ABA) pretreatment increases the desiccation tolerance of photosynthesis in the moss Atrichum undulatum. In unstressed plants, ABA pretreatment decreased the
20146864|Mortality of cacti after grassland fires is usually &lt25% within 2 years. Little, however, is known about long-term mortality. This study followed the fate of 50 marked plants of each of four species of small cacti (Coryphantha vivipara, Echinocereus pectinatus, Echinomastus intertextus and Mammillaria heyderi) on burnt and unburnt desert-grassland in Arizona. All marked plants were dead within 16 years. The first three species suffered increased mortality after being burnt while M. gummifera survived better after fire. The average rate of mortality of burnt plants over unburnt plants was 10.2 times higher in E. pectinatus, 3.7 times in C. vivipara and 1.5 times in E. intertextus. In M. heyderi, however, the mortality of burnt plants was 0.25 that of control plants. Fire more rapidly removed the breeding populations of the first three species, reducing seed availability in the occasional years favourable for establishment, increasing the risk of local extinction. Cacti did establish on the study areas and by the end were of a similar size to the dead cohort giving the superficial impression that the site was unchanged except for a reduction on unburnt sites in total cactus density (burnt: 445/ha in 1987, 401/ha in 2003; control: 2235/ha and 675/ha, respectively). Evidence of fire and dead plants rapidly disappeared, so without plants being marked the death of one population and establishment of another would have been easily missed. Estimates of growth rates support the assertion that the final plants established during the study.
40305792|In the Atlantic Montane Rain Forest of south-eastern Brazil, a field study was carried out to describe the forest disturbance regime, analyse canopy gap composition and evaluate the influence of habitat parameters on gap tree species composition. We characterized canopy gaps considering the group of variables as follows: area, type and number of tree/branch falls, topographic position, soil coverage and surrounding canopy trees. Gap composition was assessed at species level by measuring all individuals inside gaps higher than one meter. Mean gap area of the 42 canopy gaps analysed was 71.9  9.0 m (mean  SE). Out of the studied gaps, 35.7% were created by uprooted and by snapped trees, 16.7% by dead-standing trees and 11.9% by the fall of large branches. The disturbance regime was characterized by gap openings predominantly smaller than 150 m and by spatial patterning related to topography. Ridges had smaller gaps and higher proportions of gaps created by branch falls; slopes had bigger gaps generally created by uprooting events. The more abundant and frequent species were shade tolerant and the more species-rich families found inside gaps did not differ from the forest as a whole. Pioneer species were rare and restricted to medium and large size classes. The Indicator Species Analysis and the Canonical Correspondence Analysis indicated gap area, topography and the percentage of soil cover by the genera Calathea and Ctenanthe were the predominant variables correlated with woody species distribution. So, topography emerged as an important issue not only to the gap disturbance regime, but also to gap colonization. In respect to the influence of gap processes on the Atlantic Montane Rain Forest regeneration, our results support the view that canopy gap events may not be working as promoters of community wide floristic shifts.
20146970|We investigated the effects of herbivory by the dorcas gazelle, Gazella dorcas, on the production of a second inflorescence in a desert lily, Pancratium sickenbergeri (Amaryllidaceae), after the first inflorescence was eaten. In three populations exposed to different levels of herbivory, we conducted an inflorescence-clipping experiment in the flowering seasons of 1997, 1998 and 1999. The experiment was performed on inflorescences at both the emerging stage and the anthesis stage. Plants in each control group were undamaged. Clipped plants had a greater probability of producing a second inflorescence stalk than unclipped plants. In all the populations, the probability of producing a second inflorescence was greater when the first inflorescence was cut in the emerging stage than when it was cut in anthesis, indicating that there was a cost of compensation. In the population with the highest level of herbivory, the production of a second inflorescence stalk was related to resource availability in all 3 years. Plants produced as many flowers or fruits on the second stalk as on the first, indicating that potential reproductive output is double that usually achieved. Although we found no evidence for a trade-off between investment in first and second inflorescence stalks, the lower probability of producing a second inflorescence if heavy investment had been made in the first inflorescence indicates that compensation is costly. These results contradict the mutualism hypothesis that herbivory is beneficial to plants and provide support for the trade-off hypothesis that benefits of herbivory are proximal and are attained at an evolutionary cost.
40305594|Alpine snowbeds are characterized by a long-lasting snow cover and low soil temperature during the growing season. Both these key abiotic factors controlling plant life in snowbeds are sensitive to anthropogenic climate change and will alter the environmental conditions in snowbeds to a considerable extent until the end of this century. In order to name winners and losers of climate change among the plant species inhabiting snowbeds, we analyzed the small-scale species distribution along the snowmelt and soil temperature gradients within alpine snowbeds in the Swiss Alps. The results show that the date of snowmelt and soil temperature were relevant abiotic factors for small-scale vegetation patterns within alpine snowbed communities. Species richness in snowbeds was reduced to about 50% along the environmental gradients towards later snowmelt date or lower daily maximum temperature. Furthermore, the occurrence pattern of the species along the snowmelt gradient allowed the establishment of five species categories with different predictions of their distribution in a warmer world. The dominants increased their relative cover with later snowmelt date and will, therefore, lose abundance due to climate change, but resist complete disappearance from the snowbeds. The indifferents and the transients increased in species number and relative cover with higher temperature and will profit from climate warming. The snowbed specialists will be the most suffering species due to the loss of their habitats as a consequence of earlier snowmelt dates in the future and will be replaced by the avoiders of late-snowmelt sites. These forthcoming profiteers will take advantage from an increasing number of suitable habitats due to an earlier start of the growing season and increased temperature. Therefore, the characteristic snowbed vegetation will change to a vegetation unit dominated by alpine grassland species. The study highlights the vulnerability of the established snowbed vegetation to climate change and requires further studies particularly about the role of biotic interactions in the predicted invasion and replacement process.
41508658|Resprouting has emerged as a key functional trait in plant ecology over the past decade with more than 400 papers published since 2000 (Web of Science). This special issue of Plant Ecology brings together a set of papers that advance our understanding of this functional trait, in the quest for developing a better conceptual framework for predicting community response to disturbance. This special issue highlights current research on all aspects of the effects of fire and other disturbances on plant resprouting behaviour and the importance of the persistence niche in structuring plant communities.
20050419|Terrestrial plant species vary widely in their adaptation to (increasing) solar UV-B radiation. Among the various responses of higher plants to enhanced UV-B are increasing leaf thickness and increasing concentrations of UV-B absorbing compounds. In some (UV-B resistant) plant species increased leaf thickness and UV-B absorbance may form part of mechanisms protecting plants from UV-B damage. However, in UV-B sensitive plant species leaf thickness and UV-B absorbance may increase as well with enhanced UV-B radiation. In the latter case however, this response cannot prevent plant damage and disturbance. In the present field study the relationship between these plant parameters and a natural elevational UV-B gradient on the tropical island of Jamaica was described. Four plant species of the Blue Mountain Tropical Montane Forest, occurring on open forest sites along the roadside and paths were studied along an elevational gradient. Plant species studied are Redbush (Polygonum chinense), Wild ginger (Hedychium gardneranum), John Crow Bush (Bocconia frutescens) and White clover (Trifolium repens). The elevational sites were at 800, 1000, 1200, 1400 and 1600 m above sea level. Leaf thickness was measured of leaves of intact plants around midday in the field. Leaf disks (5 mm) were sampled and extracted with a methanol/HCl mixture. UV-B absorption of these leaf extracts was measured spectrophotometrically. For all species leaves from higher elevations were thicker than those from lower elevations. In addition, the absorption of UV-B of leaf extracts increased with increasing elevations. It is assumed that the calculated gradient of the
20051272|Structure and regeneration of a mid-montane (2200 m a.s.l.) mixed forest codominated by evergreen (Lithocarpus cleistocarpus), deciduous (Acer flabellatum) and coniferous (Tsuga chinensis, Abies fabri, and Taxus chinensis) trees were analyzed in a 40 m  60 m plot on Mt. Emei, Sichuan, China. Plant community structure and composition varied depending on topographic micro-habitat within the plot. Four topographic communities (topo-communities) were distinguished with dominant species corresponding to topography: (1) Abies -- valley bank, (2) Acer -- lower steep slope, (3) Lithocarpus -- upper gentle slope, and (4) Tsuga -- ridge. The coexistence mechanisms of the evergreen, deciduous, and coniferous trees were determined by identifying the regeneration process characteristic of each dominant species, as represented by their seedling dispersion patterns and seedling establishment along the topographic gradients. The saplings and seedlings of the dominants were distributed differently according to the topography: Lithocarpus under the canopy of parent trees and in gaps of the upper gentle slope and ridge, Acer mainly in both well-lit and shady sites on the lower steep slope and on fallen logs, Abies on the valley bank but only in well-lit sites, Tsuga on the ridge, Taxus mostly on rock and well-lit sites on the slopes. Distribution of surviving saplings and seedlings was also related to the species of nearby canopy trees. We suggest that Lithocarpus, Tsuga and Acer tend to be self-replacing in their own topographic habitats, and Abies survives as a fugitive by occupying occasional suitable gaps. The variation in soil conditions, particularly nutrients, with topography affected seedling establishment and the growth of trees. The successional change of quantitative species composition, as predicted by the Markovian model, shows the mixed forest to be in a sustained climax stage.
23500363|Niche partitioning of light among seedling species is a key mechanism supporting coexistence in forests. Species sort along light gradients through direct responses to light and through indirect responses mediated by other environmental factors. Canopy gaps in temperate evergreen rainforests experience sub-zero temperatures and thus gap-dependent species are vulnerable to cold photoinhibition from exposure to high light at low temperatures. We used a shadehouse experiment to test two hypotheses: (1) that gap-dependent species are resistant to cold photoinhibition; and (2) that gap-dependence observed in the field may be driven by the interaction between high light and low temperatures. Specifically, we predicted that some species restricted to shade in the field are excluded from gaps because of low resistance to cold photoinhibition. Gap dependence of angiosperm and conifer seedlings was estimated from expert opinion, and from experimental growth and survival responses to light treatments representing a forest understorey and forest gap. Additional seedlings were used to evaluate resistance to cold photoinhibition (sub-zero temperatures at dawn). Gap-dependent species were resistant to cold photoinhibition. Our second hypothesis was supported by Beilschmiedia tawa (Lauraceae), which had low resistance to photoinhibition, a strong positive growth response to the light treatments, and is restricted to shade in the field. Seedling regeneration niches in temperate rainforest are shaped in part by the interaction between light and low temperatures, and this interaction will be crucial for determining seedling responses to climate warming.
20051194|The theory, methodology and implementation for an ecological and spatially constrained classification are presented. Ecological and spatial relationships among several landscape variables are analyzed in order to define a new approach for a landscape classification. Using ecological and geostatistical analyses, several ecological and spatial weights are derived to recreate landscape pattern and structure in a classification model. An ecological and spatial constrained classification is obtained such that it describes the forms of scale and spatial variation of several ecological variables. As an example, several ecological factors are identified applying multivariate analysis methods on a collection of variables (remotely sensed measures of vegetation activity and water balance variables) to define ecological weights. Posteriorly, by analyzing the forms of spatial variation and scales through semivariogram analysis, several necessary spatial weights are derived to spatially constrain the classification. Ecological and spatial information derived from previous analysis is used as GIS mapping tools (i.e, constrained rules) to recreate patterns of regional ecosystems. The approach is successfully implemented for the analysis of tropical forest ecosystems in Mexico.
20051286|A field experiment was designed to evaluate the importance of facilitative and competitive interactions in Picris hieracioides, a facultative biennial that colonises the early and the mid-stages of secondary succession in the Mediterranean region. Seedlings of Picris hieracioides from populations of the early- (1 year) and the mid-stages of field abandonment (15-40 years) were transplanted in two adjacent old fields, abandoned for 4 (F4) and 20 years (F20) and that differed markedly in floristic composition and vegetation structure. For two years, we experimentally manipulated competition (no-neighbours vs. natural vegetation) and resource availability (addition of water and fertiliser vs. controls) in an attempt to evaluate their influence on survival, reproductive timing, growth and reproductive output throughout the life cycle. Early mortality was higher in non vegetated plots in both fields. Mortality of seedlings was mainly due to herbivory by larvae of genus Agriotes. Flowering throughout the whole experiment was also facilitated by vegetation in the F4 field as a result of the positive effect of annual vegetation and remained unaffected in the F20 field because of the high competitive effect of established perennial vegetation. The addition of resources altered the effect of facilitation and competition on late seedling survival. Survival was enhanced in the vegetated plots of the F4 field, because resource addition increased the shade provided by the canopy of vegetation, protected seedlings from temperature extremes and reduced water loss. Seedling mortality also decreased in the F20 field but in a similar manner to vegetated and non-vegetated subplots, and consequently the outcome of positive and negative interactions remained neutral. The net effect of facilitation and competition resulted in interference later in the life cycle and appeared through final lower growth and reproduction in both fields. However, the greater competition in 1994 than in 1995 in both fields, probably because the size of the rosettes, makes them less susceptible to competition, illustrates the difficulty in predicting the outcome of competition solely of one season for facultative biennial plants. The relative competition intensity calculated using only survivors (
20146496|Litterfall is an important cause of seedling mortality in many forests ranging from wet tropical to boreal. However, there is a lack of studies that investigate differences between species in seedling resilience to litterfall damage. We selected seedling pairs of seven tree species and simulated litterfall damage by pinning one of each pair to the ground. The mortality and growth rates varied significantly between species for pinned individuals, but were similar for unpinned seedlings. The mortality of pinned Nestegis cunninghamii and Prumnopitys ferruginea was significantly greater than that of unpinned individuals (P &lt 0.05). However, contrary to expectations, the growth rates of pinned Hedycarya arborea and Nothofagus menziesii were much greater than for those left unpinned (P &lt 0.05). In general, seedling resilience to the bending damage differed substantially between species. N. cunninghamii and P. ferruginea suffered high mortalities and did not increase growth rates in response to damage, whereas, H. arborea and N. menziesii suffered few mortalities and regained height quickly. Other study species demonstrated intermediate resilience. This study demonstrates that some species are more likely to survive in high-risk litterfall regimes than are others. Given that litterfall risk can vary greatly between microsites, these results suggest that litterfall can contribute to regeneration niche differentiation.
41508661|Plants often survive disturbances such as fire by resprouting which involves having both protection traits and carbohydrate storage capacity. Protection traits not only act directly to insulate meristems but also prevent combustion of carbohydrate stores. Rapid stem growth also allows replenishment of carbohydrate stores ensuring persistence through another event. Resource availability may, however, constrain the ability to develop resilience to high-severity fires through either nutrient limitation or light limitation. We tested whether fire severity influenced resprouting ability of woody plants in two contrasting environments, low nutrient dry sclerophyll forest and more fertile wet sclerophyll forest. We tested which fire protection and growth traits were associated with resprouting ability (27 species) and resprouting vigour (16 species). Fire severity did not limit the ability of most species to resprout in either forest type. There was no generalized protection syndrome for surviving top kill, but combinations of bud protection and growth together with storage capacity appear to drive resprouting ability. In nutrient-limited forests, low specific leaf area (SLA) may reduce stem growth in resprouters, causing more reliance on bud protection through bark thickness. Conversely, in the more fertile forests, where light becomes limiting with timesince-fire, high SLA appears to increase the capacity for rapid stem growth with less emphasis on developing thicker bark. These different syndromes appear to be adaptive as fire severity did not influence survival in either forest type.
20051205|It has been hypothesized that clonal integration between ramets in environments with spatially variable rates of herbivory and nutrient availabilities leads to increased growth and fitness in the genet. An increase in genet growth could potentially influence ecosystem processes such as primary productivity and nutrient cycling. I tested the idea that clonal integration would lead to greater aboveground productivity, compensatory response to defoliation, and N re-distribution in a factorial experiment in field plots in the Serengeti Ecosystem, Tanzania. Each plot had either all stolons severed or left intact, had repeated defoliation (to simulate grazing by the African buffalo) or none, and was either located next to a plot that received urea (to simulate a urine-hit) or next to a plot that remained untreated. Plots that received stolon severing treatments had 32% less peak biomass than did connected control plots, and this suggests that plants grew better when ramets remained connected. However, compensatory response by plots to repeated defoliation was inconsistent with the hypothesized benefits of ramet integration at the ecosystem level: productivity response to defoliation was similar between plots with connected vs. severed ramets (i.e. no stolon severing  defoliation interaction was found). When averaged across other treatments, defoliated plots had increased productivity compared to nondefoliated plots during the growing season. Thus, ramet connection and defoliation did increase productivity when they were considered alone, but productivity response to defoliation was unaffected by ramet connections. Urea additions, which led to a 78% increase in productivity in adjacent "urine-hits", had no consistent effect on productivity but did increase leaf percent N in adjoining study plots. Thus, in the Serengeti, urine hits probably have very localized effects on productivity during the initial growing season.
41508796|The response of organisms to anthropogenic or natural modification of the environment is one of the most important questions in conservation biology and ecological theory. In spite of the fact that orchids are one of the most studied groups of plants, little information exists regarding their response to habitat alteration. The few existing studies are biased toward European orchid species and no consensus exists with regard to the response of orchids to human and natural disturbance. In this study, we sampled 30 transects (0.1 ha each) of oak forest located in Morelos, Central Mexico, and measured 13 variables related to forest aging and stump abundance, and six variables of orchid species richness and abundance. Neither abundance nor the richness and specific abundance of orchid genus or species were related to timber extraction. The abundance of dead standing trees in the forest, a surrogate variable of forest age, was positively related to abundance of orchids of the genus Malaxis, orchid richness and orchid abundance. This finding suggests that the conservation of all facets of the studied forest orchid community is dependent on natural processes (such as self-thinning) and the maintenance of older areas of the forest, and concurs with previous studies that suggest that natural disturbance is a key process for orchid survival.
20146593| The study was carried out in 16 gaps produced by bamboo clump death (Merostachys riedeliana Rupr. ex Doell) in a semideciduous mesophytic forest in the Santa Genebra County Reserve (224945" S and 470633" W), Campinas, SP, south-eastern Brazil. All shrub and tree individuals in the gap with height  0.50 m were sampled. The floristic similarity among the colonizing vegetation in these gaps and in gaps produced by treefall was assessed by the Jaccard similarity index and cluster analysis. The colonization process of these gaps was found to be similar to that in gaps formed by treefall, but this colonization only began after the bamboo clump death. The gap area varied from 35 m to 454 m, but small gaps predominated. In the set of gaps, 3677 individuals were sampled belonging to 40 families, 83 genera and 114 species. The families with the greatest species richness in the gaps were Myrtaceae (10), Euphorbiaceae (9) and Solanaceae and Rubiaceae (8 each). The species with the greatest number of individuals in the gaps were the pioneers Celis tala Gillies ex Planchon and Croton priscus Muell. Arg. and the shade-tolerant shrubs Actinostemon klotschii (Muell. Arg.) Pax, Polygala klotzschii Chod., Psychotria hastisepala Muell. Arg. and Galipea multiflora Engl. Late secondary species predominated because of the greater number of small gaps. The gaps formed by bamboo clump death contributed to the successional and structural organization of the forest, creating suitable environments for colonization by shrub and tree species of the different successional groups. 
41508645|Habitat fragmentation decreases plant population sizes and increases spatial isolation, which hampers the exchange of seeds and pollen between fragmented populations. This may result in decreased population viability. We compared the effects of population size and isolation on the reproductive success of two orchid species, Gymnadenia conopsea (nectar-producing) and Orchis mascula (nectarless) growing in highly fragmented calcareous grassland in southern Belgium. We expected that the nectarproducing species would be more susceptible to the negative reproductive consequences of habitat fragmentation compared to the nectarless species. Nectar production has been associated with increased geitonogamous pollination and, therefore, with lower seed viability. Our results show that seed viability increased with increasing population size in O. mascula, whereas it was always low in G. conopsea, even in large populations. In contrast, percentage fruit set was positively related to population size in the nectarproducing G. conopsea, but no such effect was observed in the nectarless O. mascula, where fruit set was low even in large populations. Population isolation was not related to reproductive success for either species. Our results suggest that even in large populations, where pollinators are expected to be more abundant, increased geitonogamous pollination reduces seed viability in the nectar-producing G. conopsea. In contrast, seed viability in O. mascula seems to benefit from increased pollinator availability in larger populations. For the latter species, however, fruit set remains low, even in large populations, compared to G. conopsea. This may be explained by the relatively low attractiveness of nectarless orchid species for pollinators. Our results indicate that small population size may negatively influence reproductive success in both nectarless and nectar-producing orchids by reducing seed viability and fruit set, respectively.
40305436|The objective of this study is to determine the height and age at which reproduction begins (i. e., production of flowers and fruits; the transition to adulthood) in the giant saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) in four geographically and environmentally distinct populations, and to relate observed variability to environmental differences. The onset of reproduction has been estimated at a height of 2.2 m in near optimal conditions. This value has been widely accepted and applied to populations in less optimal conditions, although variations under less ideal conditions have not been investigated. In addition, previous research has demonstrated that Carnegiea growth rates are highly variable over their range. Thus, even if 2.2 m is a consistent transition height to adulthood over their range, the age of individuals in different populations would be different. I investigate the age and height at which this transition occurs. The author sampled the heights of the shortest reproductive individuals and the tallest non-reproductive individuals to estimate the mean height of the onset of flowering in each of four locales in the northern Sonoran Desert. Using a previously published age-height-growth model, the mean age of the start of reproduction was also computed for the four sites. ANOVA and r-tests were used to compare the average transition to adulthood across sites by both age and height. Statistical results are robust and significant variations in the onset of reproduction are observed by both age and height across the four sites. Saguaro National Park and Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument individuals are transitioning to adulthood, on average, at younger ages and shorter heights than the other two locales. At the arid and marginal Kofa site, individuals that established during the regeneration peak of the late 1800s-early 1900s are only now becoming reproductive (individuals that established around 1899), while at Saguaro National Park, on average, individuals that established in the 1950s are already transitioning to adulthood. These results have implications for regeneration, particularly in marginal locales where regeneration is already limited.
20146722|While much is conjectured about the ecological significance of fallen timber, there has been little work on the influence of logs on plants and nutrient distributions on periodically inundated floodplains. We compared distributions of seeds, germinated plants and a suite of soil properties around logs on (a) the floodplain proper, (b) in 'flood runners' (floodplain drainage channels) and (c) at randomly selected log-free locations on the floodplain. Sampling was conducted on logs oriented parallel to the river, so that we could compare the sides of logs closer to and further from the river. Numbers of exotic species germinating around flood-runner logs was much reduced compared with the other two locations. Native seeds accumulated to a greater extent on the river-side of flood-plain logs compared to flood-runners logs. Densities of plants were lowest in the immediate proximity of logs, increasing up to two-fold 2 m away on both sides of logs. Gravel fraction was highest around flood-runner logs, while the fraction around floodplain logs was higher than at log-free locations. Extractable Na was higher around flood-runner logs (2.6%) than at log-free points (1.2%), but levels for floodplain logs were intermediate (2.1%). Soil samples taken near flood-runner logs were slightly more acidic than samples taken elsewhere. Our results generally were not consistent with expectations that floodplain logs would act as favourable areas for plant germination and survivorship. While certain sediment characteristics did appear to be influenced by the presence of logs (e.g., gravel fraction, pH and Na), effects were relatively small and most other measured characters were not affected by location.
41508854|Explaining relationships between species richness and biogeographical patterns over a broad geographic scale is a central issue of biogeography and macroecology. We document the realized climate niches for grasses in China's nature reserves and discuss its formation mechanism using grass richness data combined with climatic, physiological, and phylogenetic data. Our results suggest that climate niche structure of grasses is phylogenetically conservative for BEP (Bambusoideae, Ehrhartoideae, and Pooideae) and PACMAD (Panicoideae, Arundinoideae, Chloridoideae, Micrairoideae, Aristidoideae, and Danthonioideae) clades along temperature gradients and for Chloridoideae and Panicoideae along precipitation gradients. At the national scale, the divergence patterns of climate niches between two major clades are more distinguishable than between C and C grasses. High rates of climate niche evolution are found in C clades in the subtropical forest region. There appears to be a strong association between elevation gradients and grass diversity: the specific environmental conditions (e.g. energy) and the rapid shifts of climate conditions drive high grass diversification. Evolutionary conservatism of climate niches may be influenced by the specific adaptive ability to changing environmental conditions within NAD-ME/NADP-ME clades. Our results indicate that adaptations to major climate changes may be accomplished by C grass nodes of high climate niche evolutionary rates in China's nature reserves.
20146960|We examined the immediate effects of a hurricane (Hurricane Andrew, August 1992) in a coastal landscape in sub-tropical Florida, and then monitored stand recovery in Fringe mangrove sites of different productive capacity for 9 years after the disturbance. Structural impacts of the hurricane were confined almost entirely to forests within 200-300 m of the coast. Mortality and damage were concentrated on canopy individuals. Following the hurricane, rapid canopy recovery and the early onset of competition among Fringe forest stems, as evidenced by relatively high mortality of smaller individuals, magnified the initial dominance of hurricane survivors and early-established seedlings over later cohorts, and limited recruitment to the brief period prior to canopy closure. Changes in the relative abundance of the two dominant mangrove species following disturbance varied strongly along the productivity gradient. The shade-tolerant Rhizophora mangle L. generally became the overwhelming canopy dominant in the competitive environment of the recovering Coastal Fringe forest following hurricane, but the shade-intolerant Laguncularia racemosa (L.) C. F. Gaertn was better represented in less productive Interior Fringe sites, where canopy closure was delayed. Site productivity is an important determinant of the success of mangrove species during posthurricane stand development, and consequently of the zonation of communities in the coastal landscape.
20050519|The composition and structure of the subalpine coniferous forest communities on Changbai mountain, China, were studied. Two mixed-conifer forest types, indicated by different combinations of Picea jezoensis var. komarovii, Picea koraiensis, Abies nephrolepis, Pinus koraiensis, and one type dominated by Larix olgensis and Abies nephrolepis were sampled. The number of woody species become less towards the higher elevation, while the herb layer was richer in the upper part due to the lower crown density. The Larix-dominated stand was established in a large gap presented as a building phase, and its composition and structure were simpler than the other two types. The dynamics of the forest zone, which had a mosaic structure consisting of Picea- and Larix-dominated patches, is characterized by patches transforming from one to another. This mosaic structure, with patch interchanging, is defined as the climax of the forest zone. Larix played an important role in sustaining the coniferous forest communities as a gap revegetator and a conditioner for the regeneration of Picea and Abies. Windfall was considered to be a frequent disturbance factor which caused the vegetation to become more heterogeneous and offered opportunities for Larix to establish.
41686744|Soil chronosequences provide an opportunity to examine the influence of long-term pedogenesis on the biomass and composition of associated tree communities. We assessed variation in the species composition of trees, saplings, and seedlings, and the basal area of adult trees, in lowland temperate rain forest along the Haast chronosequence on the west coast of the South Island of New Zealand. The sequence consists of Holocene dune ridges formed following periodic earthquake disturbance and is characterized by rapid podzol development, including a marked decline in phosphorus concentrations, accumulation of a thick organic horizon, and formation of a cemented iron pan. Tree basal area increased for the first few hundred years and then declined in parallel with the decline in total soil phosphorus, consistent with the concept of forest retrogression. There were also marked changes in the composition of the tree community, from dominance by conifers on young soils to a mixed conifer-angiosperm forest on old soils. Although a variety of factors could account for these changes, partial Mantel tests revealed strong correlations between tree community composition and soil nutrients. The relationships differed among life history stages, however, because the adult tree community composition was correlated strongly with nutrients in the mineral soil, whereas the seedling community composition was correlated with nutrients in the organic horizon, presumably reflecting differences in rooting depth. The changes in the tree community at Haast are consistent with disturbance-related succession in conifer-angiosperm forests in the region, but the opposite of patterns along the nearby Franz Josef post-glacial chronosequence, where conifers are most abundant on old soils. The Haast chronosequence is therefore an important additional example of forest retrogression linked to long-term soil phosphorus depletion, and provides evidence for the role of soil nutrients in determining the distribution of tree species during long-term succession in lowland temperate rain forests in New Zealand.
40305528|Although both dry-and humid-forests have been intensively studied, their physiognomic and structural differences have not yet been well characterized. The present work seeks to identify the physiognomic and structural differences between fragments of humid-and dry-forests in the state of Pernambuco, Brazil. The humid-forest fragment was located in the municipality of So Vicente Frrer (737' S 3528' W) and the dry-forest fragment in the municipality of Aliana (738' S  3514' W). Fifty 10  20 m plots were delimited in each area and all individual plants with a diameter at breast height (DBH) 5 cm were included. It was observed that the total density
40606963|Resident diversity and resource enrichment are both recognized as potentially important determinants of community invasibility, but the effects of these biotic and abiotic factors on invasions are often investigated separately, and little work has been done to directly compare their relative effects or to examine their potential interactions. Here, we evaluate the individual and interactive effects of resident diversity and resource enrichment on plant community resistance to invasion. We factorially manipulated plant diversity and the enrichment of belowground (soil nitrogen) and aboveground (light) resources in low-fertility grassland communities invaded by Lolium arundinaceum, the most abundant invasive grass in eastern North America. Soil nitrogen enrichment enhanced L. arundinaceum performance, but increased resident diversity dampened this effect of nitrogen enrichment. Increased light availability (via clipping of aboveground vegetation) had a negligible effect on community invasibility. These results demonstrate that a community's susceptibility to invasion can be contingent upon the type of resource pulse and the diversity of resident species. In order to assess the generality of these results, future studies that test the effects of resident diversity and resource enrichment against a range of invasive species and in other environmental contexts (e.g., sites differing in soil fertility and light regimes) are needed. Such studies may help to resolve conflicting interpretations of the diversity-invasibility relationship and provide direction for management strategies.
24553730|The theory of optimal nitrogen (N) distribution predicts that the carbon gain of plants will be maximised when leaves of higher irradiance have higher N content per area (Narea). Most previous studies have examined optimal N distribution without explicitly considering the branching status of plants. I investigated light environment, N distribution and photosynthetic traits of individual leaves of an herbaceous species, Xanthium canadense. X. canadense was grown solitary under high (HN) and low nutrients (LN). Light availability, leaf mass per unit area and Narea were measured for all leaves within plants. Daily photosynthesis of the plants of actual N distribution was compared with those of optimal and constant N distribution. Branch production was facilitated in HN but not in LN plants. Narea was correlated more with leaf order than with leaf light environment. Although N was more limited and the light environment was less heterogeneous within crowns in LN than in HN plants, leaf N distribution was closer to optimal in the latter. These results suggest that leaf N distribution was not optimised in solitary plants of X. canadense. Because this species often regenerates in a dense stand, leaf N distribution might be selected to maximise carbon gain only in such a stand. Leaf N distribution might thus be constrained by the regeneration strategy of the species.
20050752|In a field experiment, Psammochloa villosa plants were subjected to rhizome severing. Severing rhizomes reduced growth in the young, detached rhizome segments compared to the controls in terms of all measured clonal growth-related characters, i.e. number of rhizomes and shoots, total rhizome length and total number of rhizome nodes. In a container experiment, the control ramets received uniform water and nutrient supply but in heterogeneous treatments high and low levels of water and nutrient supply, respectively were established. The number of ramets, total rhizome length, dry weight per ramet and biomass allocation to the rhizome had higher values at high water and nutrient supply, while spacer length (length of rhizome between shoots) and rhizome internode length were not affected. The local response of ramets given low water supply was enhanced due to connection to a well watered parent ramet in terms of number of ramets, total rhizome length and dry weight per ramet. A remote effect was not observed in the other treatments or in the other measured characters.
23267389|Increased or fluctuating resources may facilitate opportunities for invasive exotic plants to dominate. This hypothesis does not, however, explain how invasive species succeed in regions characterized by low resource conditions or how these species persist in the lulls between high resource periods. We compare the growth of three co-occurring C4 perennial bunchgrasses under low resource conditions: an exotic grass, Eragrostis curvula (African lovegrass) and two native grasses, Themeda triandra and Eragrostis sororia. We grew each species over 12 weeks under low nutrients and three low water regimes differentiated by timing: continuous, pulsed, and mixed treatments (switched from continuous to pulsed and back to continuous). Over time, we measured germination rates, time to germination (first and second generations), height, root biomass, vegetative biomass, and reproductive biomass. Contrary to our expectations that the pulsed watering regime would favor the invader, water-supply treatments had little significant effect on plant growth. We did find inherent advantages in a suite of early colonization traits that likely favor African lovegrass over the natives including faster germination speed, earlier flowering times, faster growth rates and from 2 weeks onward it was taller. African lovegrass also showed similar growth allocation strategies to the native grasses in terms of biomass levels belowground, but produced more vegetative biomass than kangaroo grass. Overall our results suggest that even under low resource conditions invasive plant species like African lovegrass can grow similarly to native grasses, and for some key colonization traits, like germination rate, perform better than natives.
20051211|The effect of heat shock on the germination of seeds of 21 plant species from fire-prone wooded savanna ecosystems in western Ethiopia was analysed in order to examine the possible implications of fire upon plant regeneration after this disturbance. Seeds were subjected to 6 different heat intensities (20, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 200 C) for 1 or 5 minutes, in order to simulate the situation in the upper soil layers or on the soil surface during fires. Germination tests were carried out in pots in a greenhouse over 20 weeks. After 9 weeks no more seedlings emerged. There was wide interspecific variation in the responses of seeds to the different treatments. In all species, germination was significantly affected by the temperature treatment level. Short exposure of seeds to high temperatures generally stimulated germination whereas prolonged exposure reduced seed germination. However, some species even tolerated 5 min treatment at 200 C. Seed heat resistance was positively correlated with seed length and mass among the species. Hence, production of large seeds with protective tissues promotes survival in fire-prone savanna areas. Also, the seeds of some species showed both a low and a high temperature optimum which ensures that at least some seeds germinate in the absence of fire, but also that viable seeds still remain if subsequent late fires kill emerging seedlings. Frequent and light burning in wooded savanna grasslands seems to stimulate and enhance germination of most of the studied plant species.
20146947|Open-canopy moss-rich woodlands dominated by Picea abies and Betula pubescens in northern Finland may undergo cyclic development with reciprocal replacement of the tree species due to the positive feedbacks on soil conditions. Although relations to the abiotic environment are well understood, intra- and interspecific interactions during development of sparse boreal forests have received less attention. We studied tree regeneration, growth and survival with respect to size and density of neighboring trees in four stands representing roughly four stages of the Picea-Betula forest cycle. We conducted spatial analysis (Ripley's K-function) of mapped locations of live and dead stems to reconstruct the distribution of stems prior to mortality, and to infer possible causes of tree population decline. The prevalence of standing dead stems enabled us to test if mortality was associated with density and size of neighboring trees. Logistic regression was used to test for relationships between tree survival and local crowding indices. We also examined spatial autocorrelations of individual size characteristics to determine the mode and spatial extent of tree interactions. Picea abies had reduced recruitment in open areas occupied by mosses and dwarf-shrubs, and preferentially regenerated near B. pubescens, whereas B. pubescens formed small clumps (and occasionally these consisted entirely of stems from a single tree) that showed local repulsion from large P. abies trees. Size of neighboring trees was the primary determinant of individual growth and survival, whereas neighborhood density per se had only a weak effect. Picea abies had negatively correlated sizes among close neighbors (0-4 m radius) indicating that dominant trees suppress their smaller neighbors. Negative autocorrelations prevailed at the transition stages where the patches of smaller trees were concentrated around evenly spaced large trees. Tree sizes became spatially independent at the mature phase. We hypothesize that both low light and soil nutrient availability causes the P. abies population decline. Dominant trees in this high latitude forest have large light depletion zones and shallow root system to promote strong above- and below-ground competition with younger trees. Higher mortality rates within canopy patches were not compensated for by recruitment in gaps, causing P. abies population to decline steadily.
40212887|We identified the principal factors causing losses in reproductive potential (i.e. quantity of potentially dispersable seeds) over the predispersal period of the reproductive cycle of Sorbus aucuparia L. (Rosaceae) in various populations in the NW Iberian Peninsula. Over the period 1999-2002 we examined the magnitude and variability of losses observed in each stage from bud production to seed production (i.e. bud to flower, flower to initiated fruit, initiated to full-size fruit, and full-size to mature fruit). We also investigated spatial and temporal variation in these losses. Reproductive potential showed very significant losses over the predispersal period in all 4 years: in no case did the number of mature fruits available for dispersal exceed 20% of the initial number of flower buds. In all 4 years of study, we detected statistically significant variation among populations in total losses. The principal cause of loss of reproductive potential over the predispersal period in our Sorbus aucuparia populations was non-initiation of fruit. The plant's interactions with predispersal predators of buds and seeds show high spatial and temporal variability. Also, the proportions of loss due to the different components did not show within-individual consistency over time. It thus seems unlikely that the different factors contributing to predispersal losses in rowan are currently generating significant selective pressures in our study populations.
20051005|The epiphytic vegetation on 24 pollarded trees of Fraxinus excelsior at the farm Grinde, Leikanger, western Norway was investigated. Each trunk was divided into a basal zone, a middle zone and a top zone. In each zone the four different aspects were analysed (12 sampling units from each trunk). Within a total of 276 sampling units, 162 taxa were recorded (99 lichens, 56 bryophytes, 7 vascular plants). The trunks were covered mainly by an old, thick and occasionally swollen bark, but decaying wood did not occur. Their habitats were different, and each trunk was classified into one of four categories: open meadow, wooded hay meadow, deciduous wood, and spruce plantation. A climate station was established in each habitat to measure important parameters. The floristic and environmental data were analysed by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). The floristic data were classified into eight TWINSPAN groups that have been taken into account in the CCA diagrams. At Grinde all the pollarded trunks grew under fairly homogeneous conditions during a more extensive agricultural period until about 1962. The deciduous wood developed by tree colonization on old meadows and wooded hay meadows, whilst spruce has been planted in a small part of the area. Floristic differences in the epiphytic vegetation between the four different habitats were found, which suggests that changes in the vegetation have developed during the last two or three decades. The spruce plantation was the most shady habitat having a very sparse epiphytic vegetation, mainly remnants from vegetation established during more open area conditions.
20051056|The canopy of rain forests exhibits several distinct features that determine avian adaptations. Light intensity and colour, wind, and temperature are the most important components of the physical environment. Tree architecture poses many challenges for the evolution of avian morphological features, and resource availability varies greatly. The canopy is easily accessible for birds that are equipped to travel over considerable distances. Given these conditions, high behavioural flexibility, and adaptations in behaviour and morphology related to a nomadic lifestyle, should prevail among canopy birds. The easy access for certain groups of birds also has consequences for the historical processes that shape canopy bird communities. Birds may contribute greatly to forest dynamics and composition, mainly due to their role as seed dispersers. We elaborate on these points with behavioural, morphological, and ecological data collected at our Neotropical study site in southern Venezuela (Surumoni Canopy Crane Project). We discuss how behaviour and morphological features reflect the ecological demands in the canopy. We contrast the specific behavioural and ecological characteristics of canopy birds with those of species found in the other tiers of the rain forest. It is pointed out that much of our knowledge is biased towards the Neotropics, and that better knowledge of the larger canopy species is needed for conservation.
40666571|Biological homogenization is defined as a process that occurs when native species are replaced by common and dominant exotic species or due to depletion and expansion of native species, reducing the beta diversity between areas or habitats. Islands are particularly vulnerable to plant invasion, and as a consequence, homogenization is a process that can become faster and more intense in islands than in continental areas. We recorded vascular plant species composition in roadside communities along a strong altitudinal gradient using plots beside the road and at two distances from the road (0-50 and 50-100 m). We analyzed the results separately for each group of plots with a Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) including and excluding exotic species. The results revealed that where exotic species were most abundant, i.e., at the road edge, they can create an effect of floristic homogenization where three similar roads are compared. At a distance of >50 m from the road, where exotic species are less frequent, this effect has already disappeared, indicating that it is a local phenomenon, closely related to the highly disturbed roadside environment. Furthermore, floristic homogenization seems to be more important at higher altitudes (>1000 m), probably related to higher diversity in native plant communities and lower levels of human disturbances. Roads allow humans to reach relatively remote and sometimes well-conserved areas, and, at the same time, facilitate the spread of exotic plants and the most common native species which can locally create floristic homogenization in roadside communities on this oceanic island. A deeper understanding of the effects of these anthropogenic corridors at the local and regional scales is therefore required to integrate road planning and management with the aim of conserving the value of the natural areas.
41508850|There is increasing evidence that some natural disturbances are increasing in frequency and intensity with global change, but the effects of these changes on plant populations is poorly understood. It is estimated that for every 1C increase in the summer mean minimum temperature, there is a 40% increase in hail damage. Severe hailstorms can cause large impacts on biological communities. In 2008, a strong hailstorm hit the speciose and endemic rupestrian vegetation in Serra do Cip, Brazil. This event prompted us to record its effects on the narrowly distributed and threatened species Coccoloba cereifera (Polygonaceae). About 33 to 60% of the leaves on the 246 individuals surveyed were lost. The disturbance also influenced some of the physiological traits of C. cereifera, increasing the concentration of photosynthetic pigments (chlorophyll and carotenoid) and polyphenols in the leaves. The most pronounced increase of chlorophyll was in young leaves (ca. 60%). Carotenoid content increased by ca. 50% in all leaf ages, while polyphenols increased tenfold. Contrarily, the endophyte richness decreased drastically after the event (from 104 to 33 species), only 12% of similar species remain. The hail storm strongly influenced all variables evaluated in this study, i.e., structure, physiology, and associated fungi. These results show that hailstorm had a dramatic and immediate impact on C. cereifera and may also severely affect other endemic or threatened plant species. Therefore, it is imperative that we broaden our knowledge on global climate change impacts for the conservation of native species.
20050594|Compositional patterns of vegetation and their relationship to temporal and spatial environmental variation, with emphasis on climatic factors, were investigated in plant communities located in the southernmost portion of the North American Graminetum, in central Mxico. Data from 353 samples, obtained in four ecologically contrasting plant communities during 11 years, were analyzed by partial canonical correspondence analysis. Eight climatic variables and eighteen covariables (seventeen edaphic and one resource management) were included in the ordination. A relationship between floristic change and weather variation, once covariables effects were fitted, was examined. Despite a strong contrast in ecological conditions among study sites, a set of four climatic variables was finally found in which each variable contributed independently and statistically (P &lt 0.01) to the total variance in the vegetation data. Thus, environmental variables other than climatic could not conceal the important role of weather as a mediator of floristic change through time. Summer precipitation and summer maximum temperature showed the highest correlations with the first two species axes, 0.77 and -0.39, respectively. Contribution of these two climatic variables to variance in the vegetation data explained by environmental variables was approximately 81%. Annual species were abundant during rainy years, while abundance of perennial grasses and shrubs showed no clear relationship to weather variation. This study explicitly probes the important role of rain patterns in shaping structure and composition of semiarid communities and considers how other environmental factors can affect plant communities at the southernmost part of the North American Graminetum.
40305685|Biotic homogenization, with its emphasis on invasions, extinctions, and convergence in taxonomic similarity, provides an important framework for investigating changes in biodiversity across scales. Through their selective foraging, large populations of white-tailed deer are altering population sizes, driving extirpations, and facilitating invasions of plants throughout the eastern United States. I hypothesize that deer can drive biotic homogenization in forest understory communities by shifting species composition to one dominated by grasses, sedges, and ferns (all wind-pollinated plants). I report the effects of 16 years of deer exclusion in a hemlock-northern hardwood stand in N Wisconsin using a block design. Species composition showed greater convergence in control plots than exclosure plots, indicating deer can drive biotic homogenization at the stand level. Total percent cover is nearly 4 times greater in exclosure plots. Percent cover by woody plants, broadleaf herbs, and ferns is 150,63, and 20 times greater in exclosure plots, respectively, while cover by sedges and grasses is 3.8 and 2.2 times greater in control plots. Cover by species with showy, insect-pollinated flowers is 79 times greater in exclosures. Graminoid-dominated control plots represent a novel state not observed fifty years ago, and could reflect the emergence of a grazing lawn. The increase in graminoids at this study area and throughout the region could under some global change scenarios be an early stage of conversion from forest to savanna or wood pasture.
20050876|Few hurricanes affect intact stands of subtropical pines. We examined effects of winds in the eyewalls of Hurricane Andrew, where wind speeds were &gt 200 km
20146658|Studies of spatial patterns in grassland plant communities have focused on above-ground patterns, ignoring the fact that in clonal plant communities, such as those found in grasslands, above-ground spatial structure must reflect below-ground horizontal growth. The present study examines, at both a fine and a coarse spatial scale, relationships between rhizome and ramet distribution. At the coarse scale, the dominance of species differed between above- and below-ground; some species dominated only above- or below-ground, and other dominated in both layers. At the fine scale, a single species' ramet aggregation above-ground significantly differed from its rhizome aggregation below-ground, for many species. Even for a given species, quantitative relationships between above- and below-ground dominance varied among localities. The variation in spatial pattern among species can be explained by attributes of clonal growth form, including rhizome size, rhizome origin and pattern of above-ground ramet aggregation. Using these parameters of clonal growth, four major space occupation patterns were described for mountain grassland species. For species with a high abundance of evenly distributed rhizomes, ramets either i) reflect rhizome distribution, or ii) do not fully reflect rhizome distribution, but rather are spatially aggregated, and rhizomes are typically developed below-ground. For species with a low abundance of rhizomes, ramets either iii) reflect rhizome distribution and rhizomes are typically of above-ground origin, or iv) do not reflect rhizome distribution and are aggregated only at the growing tips of rhizomes. Spatial correlation above-ground among species was the same as below-ground for some pairs of species but was significantly different for other pairs.
20050818|The impact of fire on hard-coated Cistaceae (Halimium ocymoides, Cistus ladanifer, and C. salvifolius) soil seed banks in a Mediterranean 'maquis' shrubland, and its effect on seed germinability were studied. The study also contrasts the effectiveness of two widely used techniques for quantifying seed banks, the seedling emergence and the physical separation methods, in relation to fire. The null hypothesis that a massive enhancement of physically-dormant Cistaceae seed germination by fire would make use of the time-consuming physical separation technique unnecessary was tested. Fire reduced Cistaceae seed banks in the 0-2 cm deep soil layer by both seed fire-consumption and lethal temperatures, revealed by the significant decreasing of the seed bank density and by the increase of apparently-intact but soft-unviable seeds, respectively. In contrast, no damage was recorded in the 2-5 cm soil layer. A dramatic seed bank depletion (&gt 90%) in both soil layers was recorded one year after fire in the burnt area, coinciding with a significant increase of seedling density confined to the first post-fire year. The ecological consequences of this massive post-fire seed bank input are discussed. A germinability test revealed that germination of surviving Cistaceae seeds was significantly enhanced in all cases except for the C. salvifolious seed bank in the deeper soil layer. However, final germination levels (60-75%) did not correspond to the magnitude of seed bank depletion, especially for C. salvifolious, which suggests that other environmental factors not exclusively associated with fire may also be important in softening Cistaceae seeds. Germination enhancement by fire soil-heating was not high enough to reject the physical separation technique, at least in the deeper soil layer. The simultaneous use of both seedling emergence and physical separation is recommended for reliable seed bank estimates when a physically-dormant hard-seeded component can be expected in the soil, as in many Mediterranean ecosystems, regardless of fire occurrence.
20146571|Spatial and temporal aspects of recruitment play a central role in plant population and community dynamics and have important basic and applied implications. Here we summarize and discuss the results from studies of spatiotemporal dynamics of recruitment stages (seeds-seedlings-saplings) in Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis) throughout the species' native range. Seed release is induced either by fire (pyriscence) or by drying atmospheric conditions (xeriscence), each generating a distinct temporal pattern. In both cases most seeds travel relatively short distances (&lt30 m). Pyriscence is not expected to promote long-distance seed dispersal, but xeriscence is associated with relatively strong winds that can transport seeds over 1 km and more, as predicted by a new mechanistic dispersal model. In the absence of fire, seed survival increases with distance from adults because of higher competition with adults and sibs and higher seed predation near the seed sources. New data provide further evidence for such distance-dependent seed predation and also show that predation rates vary among habitats and are lowest in times of high seed abundance. The resulting recruitment patterns in the absence of fire are characterized by rapid spread and complex spatiotemporal dynamics that are fairly unpredictable and give rise to variable age structure. In contrast, the spatial pattern of the first post-fire generation is highly predictable because it explicitly replicates the spatial pattern of the pre-fire population. Unlike fire-free regeneration in which multiple factors operating at various stages are likely to be important, post-fire regeneration is governed by a fairly specific set of factors (the chemical properties of ash) operating during a specific stage (saplings) and at a specific location (the canopy projection of large burned pines). Post-fire forests are therefore even-aged and have predictable spatiotemporal dynamics. Most studies of Aleppo pine recruitment have focused on the seedling and sapling stages and on post-fire regeneration; we call for greater attention to the seed stage and to more extensive sampling of all recruitment stages in both space and time.
41508690|Sedum oxypetalum is one of the dominant species in the xerophilous shrublands in the lava fields of the Basin of Mexico. Germination of this species was evaluated to understand its ecological response. We tested the effects of different pre-germination treatments (cold, and dry and wet heat) and storage time, as well as those of natural priming in two microhabitats with different disturbance levels. Experiments were performed in laboratory conditions under constant (25C) and fluctuating (20/30C) temperatures. Seeds did not germinate during burial and proved to be positively photoblastic. Under pregermination treatments, final germination percentage was higher at 20/30C in seeds after four or more months of storage. None of the pre-germination treatments favored germination. Seeds can survive for more than 1 year and form a seed bank. Thus, seeds underwent natural priming that favored final germination percentage; however, germination rate and lag time were not affected by this process. In natural conditions, germination is delayed until the rainy season, improving the success of seedling establishment and growth. We discuss the role of fluctuating temperature in germination processes and the adaptations of seeds to their seasonal environment.
40305678|We present an approach to derive baseline conditions for the radiation intercepted by vegetation in the largest remaining patches of homogeneous vegetation of the Iberian Peninsula. These baseline conditions can serve as a reference to assess environmental changes. We also characterized the major vegetation types of the Peninsula in the functional space defined by the NDVI dynamics and analyzed the climatic controls of NDVI dynamics. We analysed the attributes of the NDVI seasonal dynamics: annual mean (NDVI-I), relative range (RREL), NDVI maximum and minimum values (MAX and MIN), months of MAX and MIN (MMAX and MMIN), and their inter-annual variabilities (1982-1999). We selected as reference sites only homogeneous pixels occupied by natural vegetation. We described their relationship with climatic variables using regression models. NDVI-I and RREL captured most of the variability of the NDVI annual profile. Eurosiberian vegetation types were more productive, with winter minima and summer maxima. Mediterranean vegetation had summer minima and maxima distributed from autumn to spring. Interannual differences (higher in the Mediterranean) were low for NDVI-I and MAX and high for RREL and MIN. Precipitation was the main driver of NDVI-I for the Mediterranean pixels while temperature constrained it in the Eurosiberian ones. Seasonality (RREL) was associated with winter temperatures in Eurosiberian areas and with summer drought in Mediterranean ones. The Iberian vegetation types mainly differed in terms of total production and seasonality. Such differences were related to mean and inter-annual variation in precipitation and temperature associated with the Eurosiberian and Mediterranean climate zones. The NDVI dynamics allowed us to identify a functional signature for each vegetation type which captures differences that go beyond their range of climatic factors. Our baseline descriptions, based on a common approach to characterize vegetation functioning, are proposed as reference situations to evaluate the impact of environmental changes on the remaining large patches of single major natural and seminatural vegetation types.
20146792| Plant biomass, mineral composition and the amounts of nutrients in the different fractions of the vegetation were determined for a dense dry deciduous forest growing on light red sands in south-western Madagascar. Complete harvesting and soil coring were used to determine the above- and below-ground biomass respectively. The above-ground biomass, weighing 118 t ha (dry matter), was mostly (96%) made up of phanerophytes (woody trees and shrubs &gt 25 cm tall). Dead material (litter and dead wood on the soil surface) represented 13.8 t ha. These results fit well into the range of values reported for other tropical ecosystems. The below-ground biomass was 17.8 t ha giving a root/shoot ratio of 0.15. Rooting is superficial. The nutrient concentration in this dry forest on light reddish-brown sands is, as in other dry forests, considerably higher than that usually found for humid forests. Calcium is the most abundant element. The plant biomass Ca/K ratio is much higher than that of humid tropical forests. In spite of its high originality, this Madagascan dry forest has the same behaviour as other dry forests of the world. 
20051254|Polymnia canadensis, an herbaceous plant species of the North American Temperate Deciduous Forest heretofore reported as being perennial, is shown to be primarily monocarpic. In common garden experiments, the majority of plants grown from seeds or seedlings collected in Kentucky, Alabama, Virginia, Ohio, and Missouri were monocarpic, but some were dicarpic, tricarpic or polycarpic. Observations in natural populations of P. canadensis suggested that there is variation in the life history of this species throughout its geographic range. Anthesis date and height of plants at anthesis were significantly different between mesic and dry field sites in central Kentucky populations, but common garden and reciprocal transplant experiments showed that these were due mainly to environmental (and not to genetic) effects. The latter was also true for age of maturity and rate of change in plant height. Lack of significant site  source interaction for these characters indicated that plants did not differ in their plastic responses between sources at each site. Winter annual, biennial, triennial, and dicarpic and tricarpic perennial life histories occurred within populations in both common garden and reciprocal transplant experiments. In the latter experiments, most matured plants were either biennials (most common) or winter annuals (second most common), with the order reversed in the former experiments due to a more benign environment favoring earlier maturity. The extensive phenotypic plasticity displayed by P. canadensis for phenology and life history enables the species to inhabit a wide range of environments.
40540338|In African savannas, bottom-up soil nutritional factors and top-down herbivory have both been suggested to control the distribution patterns of bunch and lawn grasses. We tested the separate and combined roles of these factors on grassland distribution in a South African savanna by focusing on three main objectives, namely (1) are grazing patches and lawns restricted to specific soils or sites, (2) does herbivory alter rates of nutrient cycling which facilitates lawns and (3) are there any differences in foliage quality between lawn and bunch grass-dominated sites that might influence animals in choosing to feed on lawns? We set up ten sites along a grazing gradient in the Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. At these sites, we measured total soil nutrients, soil nutrient turnover rates and grass foliage nutrient concentrations. We found that in the Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park the spatial distribution of lawn and bunch grassland types appears to be an animal-driven phenomenon and not dependent on specific soil properties. The short-structured and distinct species found in lawns do not appear to be restricted to nutrient-enriched patches. However, the grasses of these lawns had significantly higher nutrient concentrations, in their foliage, which might explain the high attraction to these patches by herbivores. We also did not find any animal-induced stimulation of nutrient cycling rates that are often associated with lawn grass species.
40305604|We asked the following questions regarding gap dynamics and regeneration strategies in Juniperus-Laurus forests: How important are gaps for the maintenance of tree diversity? What are the regeneration strategies of the tree species? Thirty canopy openings were randomly selected in the forest and in each the expanded gap area was delimited. Inside expanded gaps the distinction was made between gap and transition zone. In the 30 expanded gaps a plot, enclosing the gap and transition zone, was placed. In order to evaluate the differences in regeneration and size structure of tree species between forest and expanded gaps, 30 control plots were also delimited in the forest, near each expanded gap. In the 60 plots the number of seedlings, saplings, basal sprouts and adults of tree species were registered. Canopy height and width of adult individuals were also measured. The areas of the 30 gaps and expanded gaps were measured and the gap-maker identified. Juniperus-Laurus forests have a gap dynamic associated with small scale disturbances that cause the death, on average, of two trees, mainly of Juniperus brevifolia. Gap and expanded gap average dimensions are 8 and 25 m, respectively. Gaps are of major importance for the maintenance of tree diversity since they are fundamental for the regeneration of all species, with the exception of Ilex azorica. Three types of regeneration behaviour and five regeneration strategies were identified: (1) Juniperus brevifolia and Erica azorica are pioneer species that regenerate in gaps from seedlings recruited after gap formation. However, Juniperus brevifolia is a pioneer persistent species capable of maintaining it self in the forest due to a high longevity and biomass; (2) Laurus azorica and Frangula azorica are primary species that regenerate in gaps from seedlings or saplings recruited before gap formation but Laurus azorica is able to maintain it self in the forest through asexual regeneration thus being considered a primary persistent species; (3) Ilex azorica is a mature species that regenerates in the forest.
41412362|Given prior evidence for local ecotypic and species-specific adaptation in trees, we hypothesized that: (1) Acer rubrum and Quercus rubra provenances with different climate origins should differ in photosynthetic temperature optimum (T opt ) even after long-term growth in a common environment; (2) congeneric species Populus tremuloides and Populus deltoides with differing but overlapping ranges should not differ in T opt when co-occurring, due to the likelihood of both ecotypic thermal adaptation and phenotypic thermal acclimation. To address these questions, we investigated the temperature responses of pairs of A. rubrum and Q. rubra provenances planted in a common garden and the temperature responses of P. tremuloides and P. deltoides at four sites where the species ranges overlap in Minnesota, USA. Both studies showed significant signals of temperature adaptation. The provenances of both A. rubrum and Q. rubra that originated from northern sites with lower ambient temperature had lower T opt . This supported the hypothesis about the dominance of local ecotypic adaptation of photosynthesis to temperature despite opportunity for both long-term (12-year) acclimation to the common-garden temperature regime and short-term temperature acclimation. However, acclimation capacity to the temperatures experienced in the days and weeks before the gas exchange measurements differed among the contrasting provenances suggesting that the observed differences in r opt could be due to either fixed genotypic differences (e. g., adaptive T opt ), acclimation of T opt , or both. In contrast, the Populus species with the colder home range, P. tremuloides, showed significantly (P < 0.05) lower T opt on average than co-occurring P. deltoides. Thus, despite the opportunity for both ecotypic adaptation and local acclimation, phylogenetic inertia still constrained the species with the colder overall range to a different temperature optimum than the one with a warmer overall range. Our results also imply that rapid but modest climate change may create mismatches between photosynthetic physiology and local climate because of lags in population or species-level adaptation.
20050902|The Chilean matorral is characterized by multispecific shrub clumps in dry areas but has a continuous canopy in wetter sites. It has been hypothesized that this difference is due to easier recolonization of open patches by shrub seedlings under more mesic conditions. Within the mesic range of the matorral we designed a field experiment to compare shrub seedling emergence, growth, and survival under the closed canopy of a secondary forest versus three types of open patches: burned, cleared of shrubs but with a herbaceous layer present, and clear without a herbaceous layer. After the first summer, survival of Quillaja saponaria seedlings was 75% in the burned site, 30% in the cleared patch without herbaceous vegetation, and 15% with herbaceous vegetation present, whereas there was 0% survival under the secondary forest canopy. After eight years, the percentages had dropped to: 22%, 12% and 3%, respectively. These results contrast strongly with the seedling establishment patterns in drier areas of the matorral where early seedling survival is higher under the shade of large shrubs. In the experimental mesic sites, seedlings did best on the burned site, not only in terms of survival, but also in terms of growth. After one year, seedling mean height was 10.2 cm in the burned site, whereas 3.8 cm and 5.3 cm in the cleared patches without and with herbaceous respectively. After eight years, mean height differences between treatments had increased further: 147.7 cm in the burned site, 40.3 cm in the cleared patch without herbaceous cover and 13 cm in the cleared patch with herbs. Our results indicate that the facilitative effect of nurse shrubs on seedling establishment found in dry ranges of the matorral is less important in more mesic sites. This difference may explain the continuous shrub cover in relatively mesic areas as opposed to the characteristic patchy structure of the matorral in its drier range.
20050726|The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of grazing on shoreline meadows. To accomplish this, five ungrazed and four grazed meadow transects (a total of 411 1 m plots) were studied on the west coast of Finland (6130-6133 N/2128-2141 E). The summed cover of all species was decreased by grazing. The abundances of annuals+biennials, perennials, dicots and pteridophytes were decreased while the cover of monocots was increased by grazing. This trend was similar in all elevation classes and mainly both in the seashore and the delta. In the seashore grazing decreased the cover of chamaephytes and therophytes and in delta it seemed to increase the cover of geophytes and hemicryptophytes, but these results were influenced by differences in elevation. The height of vegetation and the dry biomass were smaller in the grazed than in the ungrazed plots. Agrostis stolonifera, Carex nigra, Festuca rubra, Juncus gerardii, Leontodon autumnalis, Poa subcaerulea and Potentilla anserina were more abundant in grazed, while the abundances of Filipendula ulmaria, Galium palustre, Lathyrus palustris and Phragmites australis were greater in ungrazed plots. Shores are multi-stress environments in which the water level fluctuation narrows the species pool. Grazing cattle is a disturbance, which has varied effects on different vegetation zones and on different kinds of species. Overall, it appears that stress-tolerant perennial monocots and halophytes are favored by grazing in those shoreline communities.
20146565| As a potential means of monitoring functional properties of plantations of Pinus pinaster and Pinus radiata established as part of land rehabilitation in the wheatbelt of Western Australia, we examined aspects of the ecophysiology of ectomycorrhizal fungi associated with tree roots. A single species of ectomycorrhizal fungi, Rhizopogon roseolus, dominated the mycorrhizal flora. Sporocarps of Rhizopogon roseolus appeared with the onset of winter rains in May, increased in number and total biomass to peak in September, and decreased to negligible levels at the beginning of the summer drought in December. A greater number of sporocarps, and consequently a greater biomass of sporocarp tissue, was associated with roots of P. radiata than P. pinaster. A similar seasonal pattern of mycorrhizal root infection was determined by counts of individual ectomycorrhizal root tips from bimonthly collection of soil core samples. At the low rainfall (380 mm annually) site, greater numbers of live root tips were more strongly correlated with soil moisture than organic matter content of soil. In contrast, in wetter areas closer to Perth (800 mm annually), highest numbers of active root tips and greatest amounts of organic matter were both within 0-10 cm depths. Results suggest an overriding importance of soil moisture rather than nutrient status of the soil as the key determinant of spatial and temporal distribution of the fungus. Results from a range of assays determining enzyme activity of soil (protease, phosphomonoesterase, cellulase, L-asparaginase, L-glutaminase and -glucosidase) surrounding mycorrhizal roots indicated seasonal patterns to be similar to those described for reproductive activity of mycorrhizal fungi. Factors responsible for patterns of seasonal activity and distribution of ectomycorrhizal roots are discussed in terms of managing systems in order to maximise tree growth and form while effectively restoring soil water balance. 
20146359|Seed predation by rodents affects plant population dynamics and it may respond to changes in vegetation structure at forest edges. This study investigates the magnitude and direction of a potential edge effect in temperate deciduous forests, and it seeks possible explanations based on predator abundance and vegetation structure. The study was conducted at twelve forest edges in northern Switzerland; in six sites all shrubs at the forest edge were removed, whereas the other sites maintained a structurally rich shrub layer. In each site three transects were laid out from the edge towards the forest interior. In six plots along these transects (at 1, 3, 6, 12, 25, 50 m) we studied seed removal from experimental dishes, rodent abundance in live-traps and four characteristics of the vegetation structure. For both woody seed species (Prunus avium, Viburnum lantana) predation was significantly higher near the forest edge in the structurally rich sites; in the other sites no such gradient was found. Selectively accessible dishes revealed that rodents were the main predators, whereas predation by insects or molluscs was not observed. Abundance of rodents (Apodemus flavicollis, A. sylvaticus, Clethrionomys glareolus) was highest under dense shrubs close to the forest edge. In the structurally rich sites there was a clear gradient of decreasing shrub cover from the edge towards the forest interior; a weaker gradient was observed in the structurally poor sites. We conclude that high shrub cover near the forest edge is the main determinant for edge effects in seed predation, and edges without a shrub belt show no such effect.
20146434|Aeschynomene virginica is a rare annual plant found in freshwater tidal wetlands of the eastern United States. We hypothesized that standing vegetation and water inundation were two important environmental factors in its population dynamics. To test these hypotheses, we sowed seeds into plots with undisturbed vegetation or plots with all aboveground vegetation removed in 1998 and 1999. Presence/absence of seedlings was noted and seedling survival to reproduction, final size, and seed set were measured throughout both growing seasons. Seedling establishment from germination to the first true leaf stage increased with decreasing water depth. Vegetation removal plots had greater seedling establishment, higher seedling survival, and higher seed set per plant than non-removal plots. In a greenhouse study designed to test the effects of water level on seed germination and seedling establishment, no seedlings established in submerged soils, and seed germination and seedling establishment were lower in waterlogged soil than in wet soil. Physical stress associated with deeper water likely limits the distribution of A. virginica to higher elevations, where seeds that colonize patches with low vegetative cover are more likely to produce reproductive adults that produce more seeds relative to patches with established vegetation. A. virginica appears to be a fugitive species specializing on open habitat patches in tidal wetlands. This species may be dependent on disturbances for population establishment and maintenance.
41508801|Many gull species (Laridae) are opportunistic feeders with diverse diets. Seeds and fruits are common in gull diets, often in small proportions but sometimes dominant in certain periods and areas. Moreover, the large body sizes and high population densities of gulls increase their ecological importance. Hence, they can be significant seed dispersers even with relatively few seeds in diets. Gulls are highly mobile and have long gut-retention times, thus may provide long-distance dispersal for plants. Most information of the potential role of gulls as seed dispersers is from dietary studies, not focused on plant-animal interactions, thus the role of gulls on plant population dynamics is little known. Nevertheless, gulls have been shown to be effective dispersers of some coastal plants, and vectors for plant movement to and between islands. Here, I review this topic and hope to stimulate more research into the role of gulls as seed dispersers, particularly in coastal and island habitats.
23267449|We investigated the effects of exotic species invasion and 3 years of nitrogen (N) fertilization on the soil seed bank in Joshua Tree National Park, California, USA at four sites along an N deposition gradient. We compared seed bank composition and density in control (no N added) and fertilized (30 kg N ha -1 year -1 ) plots to determine if the seed bank would reflect aboveground changes due to N fertilization. Soil samples were collected and germinated in a greenhouse over 2 years. In the field, invasive species cover responded positively to N fertilization. However, we did not observe increased seed density of exotic invasive species in fertilized plots. While no significant differences were detected between treatments within sites, exotic invasive grass seeds overwhelmed the seed bank at all sites. Significant differences between sites were found, which may be due to differences in level of invasion, historic N deposition, and soil surface roughness. Sites experiencing low N deposition had the highest seed bank species richness for both control and fertilized treatments. Aboveground plant density did not correlate well with seed bank density, possibly due to the inherent patchiness of soil seed banks and differential ability of species to form seed banks. This seed bank study provided insight into site-specific impacts on native versus invasive species composition of soil seed banks, as well as magnitude of invasion and restoration potential at invaded sites.
20050583|Few studies have analyzed the production of plant species at regional scales in grassland ecosystems, due in part to limited availability of data at large spatial scales. We used a dataset of rangeland surveys to examine the productivities of 22 plant species throughout the Great Plains of the United States with respect to three environmental factors: temperature, precipitation and soil texture. Productivity of plant species was obtained from Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) range site descriptions. We interpolated climate data from 296 weather stations throughout the region and used soil texture data from NRCS State Soil Geographic (STATSGO) databases. We performed regression analyses to derive models of the relative and absolute production of each species in terms of mean annual temperature (MAT), mean annual precipitation (MAP), and percentage SAND, SILT and CLAY. MAT was the most important factor for 55% of species analyzed; MAP was most explanatory for 40% of the species, and a soil texture variable was most important for only one species. Production of C species tended to be negatively related to MAT, MAP and positively related to CLAY. Production of C shortgrasses, in general, was positively related to MAT and negatively related to MAP and SAND, whereas C tallgrass productivity tended to be positively associated with MAP and SAND, and was highest at intermediate values of MAT. Our results indicate the extent to which functional types can be used to represent individual species. The regression equations derived in this analysis can be important inclusions in models that assess the effects of climate change on plant communities throughout the region.
40305750|The direct competitive effects of exotic plants on natives are among the leading causes of plant extinctions worldwide. Allelopathy, one type of direct plant competition, has received relatively little research, particularly in aquatic and wetland systems, even though allelopathy can be a potent mechanism through which plant communities are structured. Typha angustifolia (narrow-leaved cattail) is an invasive exotic plant in North America that often forms monocultures in disturbed wetlands and is more invasive than native members of its genus. We tested whether T. angustifolia was allelopathic and whether it produced different biochemicals than a native congener by growing it with the native bulrush Bolboschoenus fluviatilis (river bulrush) in soil with and without activated carbon and by qualitatively and quantitatively comparing soluble phenolics produced in the roots of T. angustifolia and the native Typha latifolia (broad-leaved cattail). T. angustifolia had a strong allelopathic effect on B. fluviatilis, reducing the longest leaf length and root, shoot, and total biomass of B. fluviatilis. When the allelopathy of T. angustifolia was ameliorated by activated carbon, however, longest leaf length, ramet number, root biomass, shoot biomass, and total biomass of T. angustifolia were greatly reduced due to resource competition with B. fluviatilis. Furthermore, T. angustifolia produced different, but not more, soluble phenolics than T. latifolia suggesting that the identity of the phenolics is different between the two species rather than the concentrations. The allelopathic effects of T. angustifolia on a North American native wetland plant and its production of root biochemicals that appear to differ from those produced by a native congener are consistent with the possibility that T. angustifolia may use a novel allelochemical in its invasion of North American wetlands.
20050926|The dynamics of the tall perennial Chamerion angustifolium, as a component of neutral grassland vegetation of a roadside verge near Bibury, Gloucestershire, UK, is described for a 39-year period. Observations were made in July annually of its performance (height and above-ground biomass) and of its major co-dominant, the grass Arrhenatherum elatius. The expansion of a single colony of C. angustifolium by clonal growth from a small cluster of shoots to a substantial highly vigorous stand and its subsequent rapid decline, which was followed by some recovery, are considered especially with respect to weather data. Shoot biomass and flowering were found to be promoted by warm summers and mild winters. The switch of dominance between C. angustifolium and A. elatius is discussed and possible reasons for the decrease of the former are suggested.
41429065|Herbivores can affect future forest composition by feeding selectivity. At temperature-sensitive treelines, herbivory can exacerbate or constrain climate-driven distributional shifts in tree species. This study analyses the impact of herbivory in a Mediterranean treeline of widespread Pinus sylvestris and P. nigra pinewoods, testing whether herbivory damage reinforces or inhibits the climatic responses of these trees. We used naturally occurring sapling pairs of similar size and age of both species, thereby isolating plant characteristics from environmental effects in herbivore behaviour. Herbivory damage by ungulates proved higher than that caused by insects in saplings of both species. Low plant density and extreme abiotic conditions at the treeline could in part be responsible for the observed low incidence of insect herbivory. Ungulates preferred P. sylvestris over P. nigra, implying heavier browsing damage for a large number of P. sylvestris saplings, suffering reduced internode growth as a consequence. In addition, P. sylvestris could not compensate height-growth reductions due to browsing with higher growth rate than P. nigra. In fact, P. sylvestris showed similar or lower relative height growth with respect to P. nigra. Under a scenario of increasing aridity and maintenance of ungulate populations, the upward migration of P. sylvestris in its southern range could be restricted by higher drought vulnerability than P. nigra, a situation exacerbated by ungulate herbivory. Our results indicate that ungulate herbivory reinforces climatic response of coexisting P. sylvestris and P. nigra at treeline, favouring a potential change in community dominance towards Mediterranean P. nigra.
40666626|Flowering timing is of fundamental biological importance for its tight association with preflower growth states and subsequent reproduction success. Here, we selected plant height and seed size to represent plant growth and reproduction states, respectively, and analyzed their associations with flowering time in 11 communities together representing a QingHai-Tibetan flora. Trait associations were examined using Pearson correlation analyses (TIPs) and phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs) within individual communities and meta-analyses across all communities. The results of TIPs-based and PICs-based analyses were generally congruent, although fewer contrasts were significant with PICs, probably because of low statistical power. Overall, flowering time was negatively correlated with seed size and plant height (i.e., plants with larger seeds and stature started flowering earlier) in various woody communities, but correlations were neutral or positive in herbaceous communities. The seed sizeflowering time relationship was negative for woody and herbaceous perennials but not for annual herbs in most communities. The relationship between plant height and flowering time was negative for woody but positive for herbaceous plants. Moreover, the lack of difference in time-size relationships between anemophilous and entomophilous plants suggests that pollination type may only be a secondary force in controlling flowering phenology. Our studies demonstrate that environmental conditions, community structure, and plant life history strategies may affect community flowering time singly or in combination.
20050670|The application of Burnaby's similarity index is discussed by using structural data from mediterranean vegetation. The index, suggested to compare objects described by characters measured on different scales (mixed data), was applied in a fuzzy theory context. Ordinations of vegetation relevs and structural characters by joint plots have been obtained. These are very useful to map vegetation structural diversity in multidimensional spaces and to test the efficiency of an intuitive classification based on qualitative assessment.
40212957|A new Lobelia species is described from Mount Guiting Guiting, an ultramafic mountain on Sibuyan Island in the Philippines.
20051231|We study the effect of ingestion by birds on seed germination and the consequences of absence of dispersal, with the persistency of the seeds inside the fruit. We collected seeds of four woody species of the temperate rainforest of Chilo: Gaultheria mucronata, Luma apiculata, Myrteola nummularia, and Myrceugenia planipes. The seeds tested had the following origins: 1) Ingested seeds: seeds collected from the feces of birds, 2) Extracted seeds: seeds obtained directly from the fruits, and 3) Intact fruits: fruits collected directly from the plants. Germination of Myrceugenia planipes under greenhouse conditions, Luma apiculata, and Myrteola nummularia under laboratory conditions, and Gaultheria mucronata under both conditions was analyzed. We found that the seeds reach their maximum germination between 15-20 days after sowing, with the exception of those of G. mucronata sown in the greenhouse, which showed a low germination rate. In the greenhouse assay, seeds of G. mucronata ingested by birds, seeds extracted manually from the fruits, and seeds inside the fruits did not show significant differences in their germination percentages. In the laboratory assays, the seeds of G. mucronata and M. nummularia ingested by birds and the seeds extracted manually from the fruits also did not show any significant difference in germination. Under laboratory conditions, the seeds of L. apiculata ingested by birds presented a statistically greater percentage of germination than the seeds extracted manually. Under greenhouse conditions, seeds of M. planipes ingested by birds did not present a statistically different germination percentage from those seeds extracted from the fruits. The seeds of M. planipes, and L. apiculata inside the intact fruits did not germinate. We conclude that birds do not affect the seed viability of any of the four species studied.
24553723|Plant species richness can increase primary production because plants occupy different niches or facilitate each other ("complementarity effects") or because diverse mixtures have a greater chance of having more productive species ("selection effects"). To determine how complementarity and selection influence dune restoration, we established four types of plant communities [monocultures of sea oats (Uniola paniculata), bitter panicgrass (Panicum amarum) and saltmeadow cordgrass (Spartina patens) and the three-species mixture] under different soil treatments typical of dune restorations (addition of soil organic material, nutrients, both, or neither). This fully factorial design allowed us to determine if plant identity, diversity and soil treatments influenced the yield of both the planted species and species that recruited naturally (volunteers). Planted species responses in monocultures and mixtures varied among soil treatments. The composition of the plantings and soils also influenced the abundance of volunteers. The mixture of the three species had the lowest cover of volunteers. We also found that the effect of diversity on production increased with fertilizer. We partitioned the biodiversity effect into complementarity and selection effects and found that the increase in the diversity effect occurred because increased nutrients decreased dominance by the largest species and increased complementarity among species. Our findings suggest that different planting schemes can be used to meet specific goals of restoration (e.g., accelerate plant recovery while suppressing colonization of non-planted species).
20146426|The last decade has seen spirited debates about how resource availability affect the intensity of competition. This paper examines the effect that a dominant introduced species, Carrichtera annua, has upon the winter annual community in the arid chenopod shrublands of South Australia. Manipulative field experiments were conducted to assess plant community response to changing below-ground resource levels and to the manipulation of the density of C. annua. Changes in the density of C. annua had little effect on the abundance of all other species in the guild. Nutrient addition produced an increase in the biomass of the most abundant native species, Crassula colorata. An analysis of the root distribution of the main species suggested that the areas of soil resource capture of C. annua and C. colorata are largely segregated. Our results suggest that intraspecific competition may be stronger than interspecific competition, controlling the species responses to increased resource availability. The results are consistent with a two-phase resource dynamics systems, with pulses of high resource availability triggering growth, followed by pulses of stress. Smaller plants were nutrient limited under natural field conditions, suggesting that stress experienced during long interpulse phases may override competitive effects after short pulse phases. The observed differences in root system structure will determine when plants of a different species are experiencing a pulse or an interpulse phase. We suggest that the limitations to plant recruitment and growth are the product of a complex interplay between the length and intensity of the pulse of resource availability, the duration and severity of the interpulse periods, and biological characters of the species.
40305479|Litterfall and its subsequent decomposition are important feedback mechanisms in the intrasystem cycling of nutrients in forest ecosystems. The amount of litterfall and the rate of decomposition are expected to vary with stand age and climate. Over a 2-year period, decomposition of five litter types were measured in two second-growth forest stands and one old-growth stand in the Cascade Mountains of southern Washington state, USA. Both second-growth stands were dominated by Douglas-fir [Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.,) Franco] but one had a significant proportion of red alder (Alnus rubra Bong.), a nitrogen (N) fixer. The old-growth stand was dominated by Douglas-fir and western hemlock [Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Sarg.]. All stands had a relatively shallow layer of forest floor mass. The five litter types were placed in each stand to evaluate decomposition patterns. Despite significant differences in stand age, microclimate and mean residence times for carbon (C) and N, the rates of litter mass loss varied only slightly between sites. The relative order of species litter mass loss was: vine maple > salal = western hemlock > Douglas-fir (from the youngest stand) > Douglas-fir (from the N rich stand with red alder). The initial litter lignin concentration, not lignin: N, was the primary determinant of decomposition rates, although the initial N concentration was the predictor for mass loss after 2 years in the N rich Douglasfir-alder stand. All litter types showed immobilization of N for nearly 2 years. Data for Douglas-fir litter suggest that higher levels of N may retard decomposition of tissues with greater amounts of lignified material. The retention of N by the litter appeared influenced by the nutrient capital of the stands as well as the forest floor C: N ratio. Decomposition was minimal during the cold winter months, but displayed a definitive peak period during early Fall with wet weather, warm soils, and fungal activity. Thus, longterm climatic change effects on forest floor C storage may depend more on changes in seasonally of precipitation changes than just temperature changes.
20147005| Recruitment, establishment and survivorship of seed- and vegetatively-derived shoots were quantified biweekly in annually burned and infrequently burned tallgrass prairie to investigate the contributions of seed and vegetative reproduction to the maintenance and dynamics of tallgrass prairie plant populations, the demography of seedlings and ramets, and the influence of fire on the demography of grasses and forbs. Clonally produced grass and forb ramets comprised &gt 99%of all established shoots present at the end of the growing season, whereas established seedlings accounted for &lt 1%,emphasizing the rarity of successful seedling establishment and the importance of vegetative reproduction in driving the annual regeneration and dynamics of aboveground plant populations in tallgrass prairie. Most recruitment from vegetative reproduction occurred early in the growing season and was higher in annually burned than infrequently burned sites, although low levels of new stem recruitment occurred continuously throughout the growing season. Peak recruitment on annually burned prairie coincided with peak recruitment of the dominant C grasses Andropogon gerardii and Sorghastrum nutans prior to prescribed spring fire, with a second peak in recruitment occurring following fire. On infrequently burned prairie, grass and forb recruitment was highest in early April and declined steadily through May. The naturalized C grass, Poa pratensis, was responsible for most of the early recruitment on unburned sites, whereas A. gerardii contributed most to recruitment later in May. Infrequently burned prairie was dominated by these two grasses and contained a larger forb component than annually burned prairie. The principal demographic effect of fire was on ramet natality rather than mortality. Fire regime, plant functional group, or timing of cohort emergence before or after fire did not affect ramet survivorship. C grass shoots that emerged early and were damaged by fire showed similar survivorship patterns to tillers that emerged after fire. Differences in species composition between annually burned and infrequently burned prairie are driven by fire effects on vegetative reproduction and appear to be related principally to the effect of fire and detritus accumulation on the development of belowground vegetative meristems of C grasses and their emergence dynamics. 
20146971|High species richness, resource availability and disturbance are community characteristics associated with forest invasibility. We categorized commonly measured community variables, including species composition, tonography, and landscape features, within both mature and 15-year-old clearcuts in West Virginia, USA. We evaluated the importance of each variable for predicting the degree of forest invasion by early-establishing exotic invasive plants. Biotic variables, including overall richness (excluding exotic invasive species) and mutually exclusive native and exotic non-invasive species richness, were the strongest indicators of invasibility. Sites that were located on northeast-facing slopes, more mesic conditions, or in clearcuts were more likely to be invaded by exotic invasive plants. Invasion of clearcut sites was more dependent on available microsites (e.g., lower solar radiation, northeast-facing slopes, and lower elevations) within each site than on the condition of the surrounding landscape, whereas invasion into the mature forests was dependent more on the surrounding landscape (e.g., proximity to paved roads). Our results indicate that exotic invasive plant species in our study area respond similarly as other plant species to resource availability and that competitive interactions are relatively unimportant. Current invasion into this landscape is more likely to be a passive reaction to site conditions instead of a driver of change.
20050610|The effect of seven different constant temperatures and five ranges of alternating temperatures on seed germination of seven species of cacti from Puebla, Mxico was analyzed. Six cacti species germinated in a wide range of temperature. Columnar cacti were more tolerant to low temperatures and germinated in a wider range of temperature than barrel cacti. One of the barrel cacti studied (Ferocactus recurvus) only reached full germination at 25C. Temperature fluctuations did not produce significant effects on germination compared to the results obtained at constant temperatures. This may reveal differing ecophysiological adaptations with respect to temperature requirements during the establishment conditions for each life form. Columnar cacti may become established mainly under the shade of desert shrubs, whereas barrel cacti maybe can also become established in open areas, beneath the shade of small rocks or soil irregularities. In both cases, temperature fluctuations are attenuated by the shade, but mean temperatures may be higher in the second condition than beneath the shade of plants.
40305421|Historical ecological data are valuable for reconstructing early environmental and vegetation community conditions and examining change to vegetation communities and disturbance regimes over decadal and longer temporal scales, but these data are not free from error. We examine the spatial uncertainties associated with 18,000 vegetation plots in the decades-old California Vegetation Type Mapping (VTM) dataset that has been digitized for use in modern ecological analysis. We examine the relationship between plot location error and basemap year, basemap scale, plot elevation, plot slope, and general plot habitat type. Bivariate plots and classification and regression tree analysis (CART) confirm that basemap scale and age are the strongest explanation of total error. Total error in spatial location for all plots ranged from 126.9 m to 462.3 m; plots drawn on 15-min (1:62,500-scale) basemaps had total error ranging from 126 m to 199.7 m, and plots drawn on coarser-scale basemaps (1:125,000-scale) had total errors ranging from 241 m to 461.2 m. Relocation of individual VTM plots is considerably easier for plots originally marked on 1:62,500-scale maps produced after 1904, and more difficult for plots originally marked on 1:125,000-scale maps produced before 1898. Biogeographical analyses that rely less on relocating individual plots, such as environmental niche modeling or multivariate analyses can alleviate some of these concerns, but all researchers using these kinds of data need to consider errors in spatial location of plots. The paper also discusses ways in which the differing spatial error might be reported and visualized by those using the dataset, and how the data might be used in modern environmental niche models.
40926905|We determined concentrations of major nutrients in the vegetation of six habitat types (hummock, scrub, lawn, fen meadow, hollow and marginal stream), spanning a broad range of environmental conditions as regards water-table depth and water chemistry, in five mires on the southern Alps of Italy. Our study was based on chemical analyses of living tissues of plant species, grouped into growth-form based plant functional types (PFTs). We aimed at assessing to what extent the observed differences in tissue nutrient content were accounted for by community composition (both in terms of species and PFTs) and by habitat. Nutrient concentrations were overall lowest in Sphagnum mosses and highest in forbs, although the latter showed large variations presumably due to heterogeneity in mechanisms and adaptations for acquiring nutrients among species within this PFT. Nutrient content patterns in the other three PFTs varied greatly in relation to individual nutrients, with evergreen shrubs showing low nitrogen (N) concentrations, graminoids showing high N concentrations but low potassium (K) and magnesium (Mg) concentrations and deciduous shrubs showing rather high phosphorus (P) concentrations. Habitat accounted for a modest fraction of variation in tissue concentration of all nutrients except P. We concluded that the nutrient status of mire vegetation is primarily controlled by community composition and structure although habitat does exert a direct control on P concentration in the vegetation, presumably through P availability for plant uptake.
41412360|Community structure and leaf traits are important elements of terrestrial ecosystems. Changes of community structure and leaf traits are of particular use in the study of the influence of climate change on terrestrial ecosystems. Patterns of community structure (including species richness, above-and belowground biomass) and leaf traits (including leaf mass per area (LMA), nitrogen content both on mass and area bases (N mass and N area ), and foliar C) from 19 grassland plots along an altitudinal transect at Hongchiba in Chongqing, China, were analyzed. Species richness along the altitudinal transect had a humpshaped pattern. Above-ground biomass had a quadratic decrease along the altitudinal gradient whereas below-ground biomass had the opposite pattern. Change of above-ground biomass of various taxonomic groups with altitude was also studied. Poaceae showed strong negative relationships and Asteraceae showed a hump-shaped relationship with increase of altitude. Five common species of the grassland, Trifolium pratense, Geranium wilfordii, Aster tataricus, Leontopodium leontopodioides, and Spiraea prunifolia, were particularly studied for variation of leaf traits along the altitudinal gradient. Averaged for all species, LMA, N area . and foliar C had positive correlations with altitude. N mass did not change significantly as altitude increased. LMA and Narea showed significant positive relationships with foliar C. The adaptive features of leaf traits among different species were not consistent. The study highlights specific adaptation patterns in relation to altitude for different plant species, provides further insights into adaptive trends of community structure and leaf traits in a specific ecological region filling a gap in the definition of global patterns, and adds to the understanding of how adaptive patterns of plants may respond to global climate change.
20051288|To examine spatial scale-dependent variation in the vegetation in Mu Us sandy land, in the semi-arid area of NW China, two transects (5 km in length, meeting at right angle) were set, and two vegetation attributes (quantitative descriptors), vegetation cover and number of plant species, were investigated. The data were analyzed combining geostatistics and fractal geometry. Nested spatial structures were revealed for both vegetation attributes, indicating the existence of multi-scale variations. The large fractal dimensions (&gt 1.70) commonly found in the vegetation suggest the dominance of small-scale variations. Shifting in fractal dimensions was detected, implying scale-dependent spatial variation of the vegetation, as well as its hierarchical organization. Significant differences in spatial variation of the vegetation attributes between the different directions were also found, suggesting a zonal anisotropy of geomorphologic processes.
41686749|The tropical coastal dunes in central Gulf of Mexico have been stabilizing over the last decades resulting in reduced substrate mobility, and promoting primary succession. We describe changes in species richness and diversity in dune vegetation during 20 years. Our questions: (a) Do species richness and diversity increase over time as predicted by models of ecological succession or do they show a hump-backed manner similar to the observations in temperate coastal dunes?, (b) What is the interaction between vegetation cover and diversity and species richness?, (c) Is there a relationship between species diversity and succession rate and does succession rate change over time?, and (d) How do plant functional types change during succession? In order to answer these questions, we set 140 4 x 4 m permanent plots in a mobile dune area and monitored vegetation cover and species richness from 1991 to 2011. In time, diversity increased in a logistic manner toward an asymptotic value once vegetation cover surpassed 60 %. Species richness increased in a humped-back shape, also reaching a maximum peak at 60 % vegetation cover. The succession rate of diversity was measured by the Euclidean distance, and showed a significant humpedback relation, meaning that it was slower in early and late successional stages. The study supports the intermediate disturbance theory. The conservation of coastal dunes vegetation should focus on all, speciespoor and species-rich habitats that help to maintain the ecological integrity of these ecosystems. The understanding of community dynamics and diversity patterns becomes an essential component of coastal dune management and conservation.
20051266|It is believed that abiotic, rather than biotic, factors are of paramount importance to the performance of plants in alpine and arctic habitats. This study examines how Salix lapponum affects 15 associated species by comparing individual growth and reproductive performance of adult plants growing inside and outside shrub canopies. The study also includes experimental removal of Salix lapponum shrubs, and measurements of shoot density of five species inside and outside intact canopies. Mean above-ground plant weight of nine species was significantly higher inside canopies compared to outside. Mean leaf number inside canopies was significantly higher for two species, and total seed number was significantly higher inside for one species. Mean leaf number was significantly lower inside canopies compared to outside for one species. Mean seed weight was significantly lower inside canopies for one species. Removal of Salix lapponum shrubs increased bulbil weight of Bistorta vivipara and seed number and plant weight of Euphrasia frigida. These results suggest that canopy removal relaxed competition. Shoot density was substantially higher outside canopies compared to inside for four species and slightly higher outside for one species. Soil moisture, soil organic content, soil pH, and temperature inside canopies were not significantly different from outside, whereas photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) was markedly reduced inside canopies. Increased growth inside canopies is likely a compensatory mechanism to decreased PAR, which enable plants inside canopies to achieve reproductive outputs that equals those on outside plants. The lower plant density inside canopies is probably caused by reduced germination and establishment possibilities there, due to reduced PAR and higher litter accumulation.
20146479|The seed germination of Polymnia canadensis was studied in relation to its wide variation in life history and its ecology as a mostly facultative biennial, a life cycle type that is rare in stable forest habitats in eastern North America. The seed dormancy and germination characteristics of P. canadensis were like some other herbaceous woodland species of diverse life cycle types. That is, its seeds have physiological dormancy, and they (1) germinated to higher percentages after cold stratification, (2) germinated better in light than in darkness and (3) formed a persistent soil seed bank. Since its seed dormancy and germination characteristics are not uncommon and are not particularly associated with any one life cycle type in woodlands, those properties do not contribute to the rarity of its life cycle type in deciduous forests. These properties are also found in many facultative biennials of open, disturbed habitats and in other Asteraceae of various life cycle types. In addition, the germination phenology of P. canadensis differed between mesic and dry field sites in central Kentucky. At the dry sites, most of the yearly germination occurred in fall, while at the mesic sites most germination occurred in the spring due to being inhibited during fall. A reciprocal seed transplant experiment conducted in two different years demonstrated that the cause of this difference was environmental and that there was no source x site interaction; i.e., no difference between sources in phenotypic plasticity for germination phenology. Absence of genetic effects was also shown by no consistent pattern in the few differences between seed sources in seed incubation laboratory experiments and in a germination phenology experiment in glasshouse flats. Exposure of seeds to a high ratio of far-red/red light prior to or during incubation did not inhibit germination. Neither did changes in leaf litter thickness qualitatively alter germination phenology in field quadrats or in glasshouse flats. Thus, germination in fall at mesic sites was inhibited by other unknown factor(s), perhaps interacting with the effects of closed tree canopy and/or thick leaf litter.
40305571|Aquatic carnivorous plants of the genus Utricularia capture and utilise a wide range of small aquatic organisms. Most of the literature focuses on animals as prey. In this study, we investigate the occurrence of algae inside the traps of four species of bladderwort. We observed that algae of 45 genera form up to 80% of the total prey; algae were found frequently in traps without animal prey. The majority are coccal and trichal algae of the families Desmidiaceae and Zygnemataceae. The percentage of algae increases significantly with decreasing electric conductivity of the water (
40305548|Long-distance dispersal is a key process in biological invasions. Previous research has emphasized the role of nonstandard dispersal vectors, but consequences of a change in dispersal vector for the establishment of invasive plant species have received less attention. We analyzed how water-mediated dispersal rather than the more expected wind-mediated dispersal can affect the establishment of the invasive tree Ailanthus altissima in riparian corridors by changing the germination rate and velocity and by providing the option of a new pathway of vegetative propagation. We analyzed the potential of different types of propagules (fruits that have floated or been submerged, current-and second-year stem fragments) to establish new individuals after contact with water for 0, 3, 10, and 20 days. Length and type of seed contact with water led to divergent germination responses. Seeds that had floated for 3 days had an increased level of seed germination (87%), while a 20-day stay in water water-curbed germination to 32% compared to 53% in control. After floatation, the maximum number of emerged seedlings was achieved more than 3 weeks earlier than in all other treatments. In general, the germination was enhanced in floating compared to submerged fruits. Experiments with stem fragments revealed the option of a novel pathway for long-distance dispersal in river corridors: Except for stem fragments that floated for 20 days, 33-75% of buried stem fragments produced adventitious shoots, 10% also set roots. The results suggest that both generative and vegetative propagules of A. altissima can be dispersed at regional scales in river corridors. Hence, water as an additional dispersal vector is expected to enhance invasions by species with wind-dispersed seeds. Our findings suggest the importance of control of initial colonizations in riparian habitats and emphasize the need to include consequences of secondary dispersal when modeling the spread of invasive species.
41686748|The conservation of endangered species critically depends on the understanding to which degree short-term fitness and long-term trends are affected by intrinsic local conditions and external global dynamics. However, studies combining longterm demographic data with population level analyses of site conditions, genetic variation, and reproduction as well as with climatic data are still rare. Here we studied the endangered orchid Anacamptis mono, representative for species with a sub-mediterranean distribution. For populations at the northern range edge, we combined long-term monitoring data (1977-2010) with climatic data and analyzed reproductive fitness components, genetic variation, and abiotic site conditions. Reproduction was generally low as expected from the deceptive pollination system, and was positively influenced by population size and xerothermic site quality. The majority of populations showed a positive population trend, which was paralleled by an increase in spring temperature and positively affected by site quality. High levels of genetic variation were found in the populations which were at gene flow-drift equilibrium. A. morio may profit from increasing spring temperatures because of increased reproductive output. Nevertheless, whether climate change results in fitness increase or not may depend on the maintenance and provision of optimal site quality, i.e., xerothermic and nutrient poor conditions.
40540376|Few studies have been performed on the importance of nutrient availability for plant productivity at < 200 mm annual precipitation and available meta-analyses have produced contradicting results. Here, we present data from a 3-year experiment on the effects of NPK-fertilisation under ambient precipitation in dry Central Asian steppes. The study site had an annual mean precipitation of ca. 160 mm and represented an intensively grazed montane desert steppe. One year of NPK-fertilisation at levels equivalent to 10 and 20 gN/m (100 and 200 kg/ha) increased above-ground mean standing crop in a moist year to 1130 and 1490 kg dry mass/ha, respectively, compared to the 615 kg/ha from the control. The absolute increase was smaller in subsequent drier years, but the crop again more than doubled under fertilisation. The effects were most pronounced for the main fodder plants Agropyron cristatum and Allium polyrrhizum, which benefited from fertilisation more than other less palatable species. Both species also showed increased levels of foliar N. Fertilisation enhanced flowering activity on the community level, and soil analyses revealed that nutrients accumulate in the soil. Effects are therefore expected to be long lasting. Our results imply that nutrient shortage may co-limit plant growth at well below 200 mm annual precipitation. Considering that predominantly nomadic land use is known to result in nutrient withdrawal, our data raise concerns of a largely unnoticed potential pathway to pasture degradation.
40540361|The short-term effects of fire severity and post-fire management on maritime pine recruitment were evaluated in a mature serotinous pine stand in a coastal area of Galicia (NW Spain) burned by a wildfire occurred in the summer of 2001. Two levels of fire severity estimated by the levels of tree crown damage scorched and unaffected crown were compared. Seed dispersal and first cohort pine (November 2001) seedling density, before salvage logging, were significantly and positively affected by fire severity. Between November and January, a fungal attack caused a noticeable decrease in seedling density in both levels of fire severity. The first cohort survival was significantly reduced by harvesting and slash treatments carried out in February 2002. However, slash chopping favoured a new pine cohort, particularly in the unaffected crown plots, in which seedling density was significantly higher than in the scorched crown plots between July 2002 and February 2003. First cohort seedling survival and height were positively related. Fire severity levels, combined with post fire management, did not appear to determine final pine seedling density and height. Finally, reduction in seedling density caused by post-fire management did not threaten pine establishment and may reduce the need for subsequent thinning operations.
40305535|Riparian-zone vegetation increasingly is seen as critically important ecologically in landscapes. While generally of limited relative area, its roles as biodiversity haven and in mediating landwater exchanges are vital. Therefore, identifying boundaries of such vegetation is important and has clear management significance. We measured 20 sites from first to fourth order streams, with vegetation sampled at 10 m intervals for 100 m transects running perpendicularly to the streams. We identified locations of sharp transitions by using Bayesian model-selection. There did not appear to be a clear relationship between the width of riparian-zone vegetation and stream order and other factors such as local topography. These outcomes suggest that the delineation of widths of riparian vegetation zones needs to be established on a stream-by-stream, if not locality-by-locality basis, and that strict operational management prescriptions (e. g., set distances from streams within which logging or other disturbances are prohibited) for safeguarding potentially sensitive areas, such as many riparian rainforest areas, often will be inappropriate.
40305474|Through tabular and average linkage cluster analyses, 737 phytosociological releves were classified. Based on these releves, we described and typified the associations, alliances, orders, and classes grouping the coastal plant communities of the Baja California peninsula. Diagnostic tables, classification by average linkage clustering, and climatic, edaphic, and biogeographical data were used to establish floristic affinities among these syntaxa and to interpret their distributions. Syntaxa were characterized by their floristic composition, physiognomy, and biogeographical distribution, along with their positions in halophilous and psammophilous gradients. Thirtythree associations were identified, of which 22 are here described for the first time. Our syntaxonomical proposal includes descriptions of nine new alliances, seven new orders and four new classes: Allenrolfeetea occidentalis, Atriplici julaceaeFrankenietea palmeri, Euphorbio leucophyllaeSporoboletea virginici and Achyronichio cooperiAbronietea villosae.
20146518|Recent studies emphasise the potential importance of scale and species pool on the humped-back or unimodal relationship between species richness and productivity. We use a classic phytosociological data-set from Rondane, central south Norway, to evaluate the relative importance of these factors in an alpine area. The effect of species pool is assessed using plot scores from a Correspondence Analysis (CA) of the data. Generalised Additive Models (GAM) are used to relate vascular plant species richness to cover of vascular plants, CA plot scores, and plot area in different combinations. Species richness of vascular plants is unimodally related to total vascular plant cover. Plot scores of the first three CA axes (representing the effect of species pool) have a complex relationship with species richness, but explain a large fraction of the total deviance in richness. A humped relationship between richness and cover remains after accounting for CA plot scores in the model, i.e. the relationship is independent of species pool. The results suggest that the relationship between richness and cover changes from one vegetation type to another, as evaluated statistically through the importance of the interaction between cover and CA scores in explaining variation in richness. Plot area also influences the relationship. A unimodal relationship is only evident when small plot sizes are used, whereas a monotonically increasing relationship is found at large plot sizes. Plot area has the strongest effect on the unimodal relationship between richness and cover, whereas vegetation type has only a minor effect on this relationship.
23267446|Many grassland plant species have limited capacity to disperse their seeds beyond local boundaries by natural means. Meanwhile, various forms of human transportation are observed to provide long-distance dispersal. However, the contribution of human-mediated dispersal to the spatial dynamics of established (meta)populations on the regional scale has only scarcely been addressed. Trifolium micranthum is a very small legume that is rare in western Belgium. It is found (i) inland, as a lawn weed on war cemeteries that are managed by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, and (ii) in coastal grasslands that are managed for conservation. These stations lie over 30 km apart, though interestingly, a number of satellite war cemeteries are found within the vicinity of the coastal reserves, and these also harbor T. micranthum. We have sampled plants from these populations to study their affinities through genetic analysis (AFLP). Results indicated that the coastal cemetery populations were closely related to the inland cemeteries and not to the coastal reserves. This most likely is the result of exchange of seeds with composted lawn material among regions, whereas mowing machinery and livestock may effectuate frequent dispersal within regions. Assignment tests nonetheless indicated limited genetic admixture to have taken place at the coastal cemeteries. Thus, human management is responsible for the realization of gene flow among these remote gene pools. Human-mediated long-distance dispersal is likely to play a role in the local or regional dynamics of many other native plants, including more common and well-dispersing species.
40305636|We investigate the persistent soil seed bank composition and its relation to the above-ground flora of grazed and non-grazed sub-Mediterranean deciduous oak forests of NW Greece. Twenty-eight taxa were recorded in the soil seed bank and 83 taxa (70 taxa in plots of seed bank sampling) in the aboveground vegetation. The dominant tree species and many woodland species found in the above-ground vegetation were absent from the soil seed bank. Similarity between the soil seed bank and the aboveground vegetation decreased with grazing, and grazing led to a decrease of species richness in above-ground vegetation and soil seed bank. Beta diversity of vegetation among grazed and among nongrazed plots did not differ, but was significantly higher between grazed and non-grazed areas. Beta diversity of the soil seed bank declined with grazing. When applying classification tree and logistic regression analyses, non-grazed forest sites are clearly differentiated by the presence of Phillyrea latifolia, Euphorbia amygdaloides and Brachypodium sylvaticum. PCA ordination of above-ground species composition reflected a gradient from sites grazed by ruminants to non-grazed sites, but no clear structure was detected in the seed bank.
20146945|In a 4383 ha beech forest in central Belgium, we investigated whether, within clearcuts, microclimate gradients are detectable, and we tested for correlations between plant species composition and microclimatic heterogeneity. The results highlight a strong correlation between microclimatic parameters and distance from the forest edge. Of the 47 taxa found, 38 (81%) showed a significant change in expected occurrence in response to at least one of the investigated microclimatic parameters (air and soil temperature, air humidity, light intensity). The results suggest that a substantial number of forest herbaceous species with broad European distributions show particular microclimatic requirements. Furthermore, many species show a different response to combined factors, such as for instance soil temperature with increasing air humidity, which indicates that combinations of microclimatic parameters stronger determine the actual temperature, humidity or light levels at which species are expected to be present or not.
23362474|Native species' response to the presence of invasive species is context specific. This response cannot be studied in isolation from the prevailing environmental stresses in invaded habitats such as seasonal drought. We investigated the combined effects of an invasive shrub Lantana camara L. (lantana), seasonal rainfall and species' microsite preferences on the growth and survival of 1,105 naturally established seedlings of native trees and shrubs in a seasonally dry tropical forest. Individuals were followed from April 2008 to February 2010, and growth and survival measured in relation to lantana density, seasonality of rainfall and species characteristics in a 50-ha permanent forest plot located in Mudumalai, southern India. We used a mixed effects modelling approach to examine seedling growth and generalized linear models to examine seedling survival. The overall relative height growth rate of established seedlings was found to be very low irrespective of the presence or absence of dense lantana. 22-month growth rate of dry forest species was lower under dense lantana while moist forest species were not affected by the presence of lantana thickets. 4-month growth rates of all species increased with increasing inter-census rainfall. Community results may be influenced by responses of the most abundant species, Catunaregam spinosa, whose growth rates were always lower under dense lantana. Overall seedling survival was high, increased with increasing rainfall and was higher for species with dry forest preference than for species with moist forest preference. The high survival rates of naturally established seedlings combined with their basal sprouting ability in this forest could enable the persistence of woody species in the face of invasive species.
40802520|The general applicability of CSR classification (a methodology for applying CSR theory) has not been tested outside Britain. We hypothesised that principal axes of trait variation for plant species native to southern European continental, sub-alpine and alpine bioclimatic zones correlate with CSR classification scores. Functional traits were quantified in situ for 506 species of 57 families. Multivariate analysis revealed three main modes in which plants invested biomass: (1) architectural extension of individual ramets (tall canopies, large leaves), (2) durable tissues (high leaf dry matter contents and carbon contents, low specific leaf areas) or (3) regenerative development (early, extensive flowering with delicate, nitrogen-rich leaves). These were highly significantly correlated with the extent of competitive ability (C), stress-tolerance (S) and ruderalism (R), respectively, determined by CSR classification. Despite being calibrated using only 43 British species, CSR classification is consistent with trait variation in a phylogenetically broader sample of species native to a wider range of bioclimatic zones.
41508752|Biodiversity maintenance is a key component of Mediterranean forest management, yet studies on the effects of silvicultural treatments on plant diversity are scarce. Our experiment assessed the impact of five different site preparation treatments on the composition, diversity, ecological traits (life-form, pollination mode, leaf morphology, seed dispersal mode), indicator values (shade tolerance, nutrients demand) of the understory vegetation in a mature thinned Pinus halepensis stand in southern France. The treatmentschopping, chopping followed by scarification in one or two directions, prescribed burning, controlwere replicated four times and applied on a total of 40 plots. Vegetation relevs were performed on each plot in the first, second and fourth year following treatment applications. Plant diversity, measured by the species richness or Shannon's index, increased in the non-control treatment plots in the first year but then decreased through time. Vegetation composition differed between treatments, with the chopping treatment exhibiting composition and ecological trait values more comparable to those of control plots than the other treatments. The burning and scarification treatments led to higher abundance of therophytes, plants with malacophyllous leaves and insect-pollinated plants, and shade-intolerant and nutrient-demanding species. However, these changes were transient in time, the shade-intolerant species remained abundant but the ruderal species decreased while the ligneous species increased indicating a gradual return to a forest vegetation composition. For the Mediterranean area, most of the findings were similar to those in temperate forests subjected to the same site preparation treatments.
20146512|Pinus halepensis, a Mediterranean pine tree, is a partially serotinous species: individual trees of this species carry both non-serotinous and serotinous cones. Serotinous cones open mainly after fire, whereas non-serotinous cones open in absence of fire. In this study we addressed the question, whether or not this cone response is linked with the germination response of seeds to fires. Two main factors associated with fire are heating of seeds and soil pH. A combination of high heat and high pH simulates a scenario with fire, whereas low heat and low pH simulates a scenario without fire. We assessed the separate and combined effects of heat and pH on the germination rate and the percentage of germination of seeds from non-serotinous cones and two age classes of serotinous cones of P. halepensis. Heat had no effect on the percentage of germination of seeds from any of the cone types, but did positively affect the germination rates of seeds from both age-classes of serotinous cones. High pH negatively affected the germination rate of seeds from all cone types as well as the percentage of germination of seeds from non-serotinous cones. The combinations of heat and pH had different effects on the three cone types: percentage of germination and rate of germination of seeds from non-serotinous cones was higher in the combination high heat-high pH than in the combination low heat-low pH. In the combination high heat-high pH, seeds from serotinous cones germinated better than seeds from non-serotinous cones. The different germination responses of seeds from non-serotinous and serotinous cones could not be attributed to differences in cone age. Our results indicate that the cone response is linked to the germination response of the seeds in P. halepensis, with seeds from serotinous cones being more tolerant to fire related factors.
20050632|The main focus of the study was to find out whether and how the forestry management in the Biaowiea Forest has influenced the mosaic diversity of field layer vegetation and habitat heterogeneity in the temperate hard wood forest (Tilio-Carpinetum). Five belt-transects represent natural and semi-natural old-growths in Biaowiea National Park (BNP), the commercial forest (CF), and secondary stands in the CF. Along the transects, distinct patches of field layer vegetation were identified and delimited, and their species composition was assessed. Along central lines of the transects the environmental data was collected from sample points established at regular intervals: soil pH and the distances to the 4 closest trees, their species, and dbh (diameter at the breast height = 135 cm). The group of patches (on average 50 per transect) was subjected to the dichotomous classification in order to identify a number of characteristic types of microphytocoenoses -- synusiae. Beta-diversity of the vegetation was expressed with the Simpson diversity index calculated on the basis of areas occupied by synusiae. The most structurally diversified were the transects representing natural old-growths in the BNP. A calculation of similarity coefficients between the transects on the basis of their mosaic composition displayed sharper differences between old-growth and secondary communities in summer than those found in spring. Forestry management has seriously modified the tree species composition in two studied stands, through planting oak or initiating succession. This resulted, both in plantation and pioneer stand, in loss of the main components of natural old-growths: hornbeam (Carpinus betulus), Norway spruce (Picea abies), lime (Tilia cordata) and maple (Acer platanoides). Significantly a wider range of soil pH values in natural old-growths coincided with a higher diversity of herbaceous mosaics comparing to secondary stands. The elimination of spruce (the species being most commonly blown down, projecting an acid canopy shadow) in two studied areas, elimination of dead wood, and destruction of humus layers through ploughing, could contribute to a reduction of specific microenvironments. A lower mosaic diversity of secondary stands coinciding with the unification of environmental conditions along the transects may indicate that forestry management can lead to the disappearance of a highly structural character in natural forest communities.
40305507|Elymus repens (L.) Gould and Agrostis stolonifera (L.), are competitive grasses with guerrilla strategy that invade grasslands with a low stocking rate. In this work, we tested the hypotheses that grazing exclusion facilitates vegetative development of rhizomes and stolons of these clonal grasses and that such change is a key mechanism for their abundance in set-aside grasslands. The competitive capacities of these two guerrilla species were characterised by samples in plant community (species richness and biomass) and on the level of individual species (morphometric measurements on stolons and rhizomes) during a growing season. Compared to grasslands where grazing was excluded for three years, species richness was higher in grazed site and the plant community structure differed. Indeed, with grazing exclusion, a shift from annual species with a diversified growth-form to perennial species with a tall tussock and graminoid growth-form was monitored. In ungrazed situation, Elymus repens and Agrostis stolonifera were the dominant grasses, and the standing biomass for the lowland community showed a significant increase compared to the grazed site. Vegetative development increased competitive capacities of these two guerrilla species and led by phenomenon of competitive exclusion to the disappearance of annuals species. With grazing cessation, Elymus repens was found to increase the size of aerial traits (shoot length and the number of leaves per shoot) and this may both be propitious for achieving dominance within plant communities and also maintaining its competitive local advantage. By contrast, Agrostis stolonifera showed an increase in a root trait, i. e. rhizome length, in the fenced site, which provide good ability for spatial propagation and then to explore adjacent patches. We concluded that Elymus repens presented a morphological capacity to change its colonising strategy from a guerrilla strategy to a phalanx strategy, by morphological variability of aerial organs, when it was submitted to competitive stress and environment modifications. Agrostis stolonifera showed a capacity to escape aerial competition resulting from grazing cessation, than to increase underground propagation capacity. The present study highlighted the capacities of Elymus repens to respond in an adaptative way to competitive pressure.
23500355|The montane forest in central Veracruz, Mexico is a hotspot of biodiversity. We asked whether lower and upper montane forests could be distinguished in this ecoregion. Variables of vegetation and seasonality in precipitation were tested across 14 sites between 1,250- and 2,550-m elevations. A total of 1,639 individuals and 128 tree species was recorded. There was a unimodal pattern in the richness of species, genera, and families; their richness was positively correlated with precipitation in the wettest quarter of the year, though there were no differences in the basal area and density. Rarefaction, species turnover, nonmetric multidimensional scaling, and a cluster histogram suggest two major groups: lower elevation forests that are less diverse, have low beta diversity and are more similar in composition, with Clethra macrophylla, Liquidambar styraciflua, and Quercus lancifolia as indicator species; and higher elevation forests that are more diverse, have high species turnover, and include forests with Quercus corrugata and Prunus rhamnoides, and forests with Fagus grandifolia, Persea americana, and Ternstroemia sylvatica as indicator species. However, other communities (an Oreomunnea mexicana at the upper site, and a limestone site in the lower forests), exemplify the high regional heterogeneity. We conclude that elevation and seasonality in precipitation produce a directional change in richness and indicator species, but not in vegetation structure. Lower montane forests differed from cloud forests at upper elevations. However, other factors should be includedmainly biogeographic affinities, historic and recent anthropogenic disturbanceto conclusively distinguish them. Montane forest can still be considered very heterogeneous and very high in beta diversity.
20051356|The effects of stratification temperatures and burial in soil on dormancy levels of Carex pendula L. and C. remota L., two spring-germinating perennials occurring in moist forests, were investigated. Seeds buried for 34 months outdoors, and seeds stratified in the laboratory at temperatures between 3 and 18C for periods between 2 and 28 weeks, were tested over a range of temperatures. Seeds of the two species responded similarly to stratification treatments, except for an absolute light requirement in C. pendula. Primary dormancy was alleviated at all stratification temperatures, but low temperatures were more effective than higher ones ( 12C). Dormancy induction in non-dormant seeds kept at 5C occurred when seeds were subsequently exposed to 18C. Dormancy was not induced by a transfer to lower temperatures. Buried seeds of both species exhibited seasonal dormancy cycles with high germination from autumn to spring and low germination during summer. Temperatures at which the processes of dormancy relief and of dormancy induction occurred, overlapped to a high degree. Whether, and when, dormancy changes occurred depended on test conditions. The lower temperature limit for germination (&gt 10%) was 9C in C. remota and 15C in C. pendula. Germination ceased abruptly above 36C. Germination requirements and dormancy patterns suggest regeneration from seed in late spring and summer at disturbed, open sites (forest gaps) and the capability to form long, persistent seed banks in both species.
20050557|The structure and composition of riparian forests were examined along the Tokachi River, northern Japan. Both the hydrogeomorphic gradient and the temporal gradient were analyzed in attempt to explain the present pattern of riparian forests. The stability of floodplain surfaces was estimated on the basis of the elevation above the riverbed and the distance from the river channel. The characteristics of the substratum on which trees were established were also examined by excavation of buried sediment. The results indicated that soil moisture and organic content increased while the size of particles in the substratum decreased with increased elevation and distance from the river channel. Gradient analysis was employed to examine the distribution of dominant species, such as Alnus hirsuta, Toisusu urbaniana, Populus maximowiczii, Picea jezoensis and Abies sachalinensis. The relative dominance of each could be arrayed across the elevation gradient. Although the three broad-leaved pioneers dominated bars and floodplains near the river channel, their modes shifted from lower to higher elevation and amplitudes of distribution curves decreased in the following order: A. hirsuta, T. urbaniana, P. maximowiczii and conifers, which were located on the highest floodplains. Sites could be divided into three classes in terms of stability. There were fewer species at active sites, which favored the three pioneer species, but species richness and diversity increased with stand age. Semi-active and stable sites were more diverse with the establishment of conifers and other broad-leaved trees, which included upland species. However, species richness peaked and then decreased after trees reached 50 to 60 years of age. The growth of dwarf bamboo and the development of conifer-dominant stands impeded the establishment of other species, thereby reducing species richness and diversity in mature stands. Chronologically, floodplains could be differentiated into high- and low-frequency zones of flood disturbance, with pioneer species occupying the former, and late successional species found largely in the latter.
41508643|The development of species richness and plant cover through time are two important measures that are often used to assess success in land reclamation schemes. We expand this approach by considering functional groups in terms of life-history traits and dispersal strategies, as important components of ecosystem function and colonisation. Here, we test, if the species richness and cover of these functional groups are changed during post-treatment succession in 26 reclaimed coal mines, and whether these changes are related to selected soil variables (C:N, total N, and available P). Species richness showed a skewed unimodal response with time since reclamation, with a peak at 13 years. The richness of life-forms showed a clear dominance order starting with annuals, followed by perennial herbs and then woody species; whereas, when plant cover was considered, perennial herbs dominated the entire sequence. Dispersal strategies showed that anemochorous and zoochorous species were the most important groups. Soil variables were correlated with richness and cover of perennial herbs, woody species, and with anemochorous richness and zoochorous species cover. Our findings indicate that those species which respond during succession on reclaimed coal wastes are controlled in some part, by the attributes of functional groups, whereas the colonisation process is more dependent on seed sources from the local species pool than on soil properties. Our results also highlighted that the use of life-forms and dispersal strategy patterns improved the description and prediction of vegetation dynamics, and allowed us to identify successional stages better. We discussed the implication of these findings for future reclamation approaches in similar areas.
20050747|Clonal growth is characterised by the ability of plants to produce shoot and root units (ramets) which are genetically identical to the parent, and which are potentially independent. Ramets of clonal plants are likely to experience environmental heterogeneity in the form of resource distribution patterns or exposure to other environmental factors. For certain species the key attributes of clonality that appear to confer ecological success under heterogeneous growing conditions can be fairly readily identified, but for the majority of clonal species the mechanisms that may be of particular importance are less certain. Future lines of research should continue to investigate the ecological and evolutionary implications of plant clonality in the context of realistic scales of environmental heterogeneity, as such information may be of considerable practical value.
40926899|Liana species have a variety of habitat preferences. Although morphological traits connected to resource acquisition may vary by habitat preference, few studies have investigated such associations in lianas. In previous work on temperate lianas, we observed (1) free standing leafy shoots and (2) climbing shoots that clung to host plants; we examined relationships between habitat preference and shoot production patterns in five liana species. Among the five species, two were more frequent at the forest edges (forest-edge species), and two were more common within the forests (forest-interior species). The proportion of climbing shoots in current-year shoot mass of young plants (3-8 m in height) was greater in the forest-edge species (45-60%) than in the forest-interior species (6-30%). In consequence, there was a greater leaf mass ratio in the total currentyear shoots of forest-interior species. This, combined with a greater specific leaf area, endows forestinterior species with a leaf area per unit shoot mass double that of forest-edge species. Forest-edge species had longer individual climbing shoots whose length per unit stem mass was smaller than in forestinterior lianas. Extension efficiency, measured as the sum of the climbing stem length per unit current-year shoot mass, was thus similar between forest-edge and interior species. In conclusion, liana shoot production patterns were related to species habitat preferences. A trade-off between current potential productivity (leaves) and the ability to search for hosts and/or well-lit environments (climbing stems) may underpin these relationships.
20051256|The bamboo Chusquea quila (Poaceae: Bambuseae) is the most abundant understory species of Nothofagus-dominated forests at low elevations in the Chilean Lake District. Species of this genus strongly inhibit the establishment and growth of tree species, especially those of the genus Nothofagus. At intervals of many years, this bamboo flowers synchronously and dies, creating large-scale disturbances. The main objective of this study was to determine the influence of bamboo dieback on tree regeneration, especially of shade-intolerant species. The forest studied is a remnant stand of old-growth forest dominated by emergent individuals of N. obliqua and Eucryphia cordifolia which project about 10 m above a main canopy formed by Aextoxicon punctatum, Laurelia philippiana, and Podocarpus saligna. Tree seedlings that established prior to bamboo dieback were recorded in six gaps densely covered by bamboo. After the dieback event in the early 1990's, recruitment, height growth and survivorship were monitored in four gaps during two growing seasons. After the synchronous mass flowering and death of Chusquea quila, both reorganization of advance regeneration and new seedling recruitment were observed in gaps. The advance regeneration consisted mainly of the shade-tolerant species A. punctatum, L. philippiana, and Amomyrtus luma. These species together with E. cordifolia accounted for over 90% of the total individuals in gaps. During the following two seasons, c. 40% of the advance regeneration either died or was damaged. Root suckers of E. cordifolia and L. philippiana were taller and grew faster than the seedlings of other species. Nothofagus obliqua was unable to establish advance regeneration in gaps formerly dominated by bamboo. New recruitment resulted in the synchronized establishment of tree seedlings, especially less shade-tolerant species such as N. obliqua, Aristotelia chilensis, Rhaphithamnus spinosus, and E. cordifolia. These species recruited into the gaps almost entirely during the first season right after the bamboo dieback. However, by the end of the second season, these species had a lower density due to a combination of lower recruitment rate, shortened recruitment period, and greater mortality rate compared to the shade-tolerant species. New bamboo seedlings grew faster and were more abundant than tree seedlings, except for root suckers (both new establishment and advance regeneration) of E. cordifolia which is more likely to successfully recruit into the canopy. Seedlings of N. obliqua compete poorly with bamboo seedlings; its successful recruitment may require bamboo flowering coincident with a mast seed year for the tree species.
23500331|Seed dispersal by scatter hoarders is widely assumed to involve directed dispersal, in which microhabitats selected for caching also benefit seedling establishment and growth. However, in many systems, this may not be true if animal-favored cache sites do not match the safe sites for plants, or if cache sites benefit the plant in one life stage and not another. Here, we investigated whether cache sites selected by rodents are favorable for seedling establishment and growth of shade-intolerant wild apricot (Prunus armeniaca Linn.) in northern China. We tracked tagged seeds and compared the germination and growth of seedlings from rodent-cached seeds with that of naturally established seedlings in a secondary forest and shrubland stand. Rodents preferred to cache seeds under shrubs with medium canopy cover (3160 %) in litter substrate in the secondary forest, and under shrubs with high canopy cover (>60 %) in soil or litter substrate in the shrubland stand, neither of which conveyed an advantage for seedling establishment. Although fewer caches were made along shrub edges, or under low canopy cover (30 %) in the secondary forest, or along shrub edges, open areas of grass, or under low canopy cover in the shrubland stand, these cache sites consistently contributed to higher survival rates. The microhabitats of grass, soil, or low canopy cover significantly promoted the emergence, survival, and growth of naturally established seedlings. Our results are best explained by the conflicting demands of rodents for caching seeds in more secure sites and P. armeniaca's high-light requirements for seedling recruitment. We argue that the relationship between favored cache sites for seed hoarders and safe sites for plants will often not match but may still allow a reasonable rate of establishment and regeneration.
40540343|The sand dune habitats found on barrier islands and other coastal areas support a dynamic plant community while protecting areas further inland from waves and wind. Foredune, interdune, and backdune habitats common to most coastal dunes have very different vegetation, likely because of the interplay among plant succession, exposure, disturbance, and resource availability. However, surprisingly few long-term data are available describing dune vegetation patterns. A nine-year census of 294 plots on St. George Island, Florida suggests that the major climatic drivers of vegetation patterns vary with habitat. Community structure is correlated with the elevation, soil moisture, and percent soil ash of each 1 m plot. Major storms reduce species richness in all three habitats. Principle coordinate analysis suggests that changes in the plant communities through time are caused by climatic events: changes in foredune vegetation are correlated with temperature and summer precipitation, interdune vegetation with storm surge, and backdune vegetation with precipitation and storm surge. We suggest that the plant communities in foredune, interdune, and backdune habitats tend to undergo succession toward particular compositions of species, with climatic disturbances pushing the communities away from these more deterministic trajectories.
20146503|The hydraulic properties of Pinus pinea, Pinus halepensis and Tetraclinis articulata were studied in a coastal dune area from Eastern Spain. The measured variables include vulnerability to xylem embolism (vulnerability curves), hydraulic conductivity and carbon isotopic discrimination in leaves. Leaf water potentials were also monitored in the three studied populations during an extremely dry period. Our results showed that roots had always wider vessels and higher hydraulic conductivity than branches. Roots were also more vulnerable to xylem embolism and operated closer to their hydraulic limit (i.e., with narrower safety margins). Although it was not quantified, extensive root mortality was observed in the two pines during the study period, in agreement with the high values of xylem embolism (&gt 75%) predicted from vulnerability curves and the water potentials measured in the field. T. articulata was much more resistant to embolism than P. pinea and P. halepensis. Since T. articulata experienced also lower water potentials, safety margins from hydraulic failure were only slightly wider in this species than in the pines. Combining species and tissues, high resistance to xylem embolism was associated with low hydraulic conductivity and with high wood density. Both relationships imply a cost of having a resistant xylem. The study outlined very different water-use strategies for T. articulata and the pines. Whereas T. articulata had a conservative strategy that relied on the low vulnerability of its conducting system to drought-induced xylem embolism, the two pines showed regulatory mechanisms at different levels (i.e., embolism, root demography) that constrained the absorption of water when it became scarce.
20146805|The aim of this study is to compare the recovery dynamics in three shrub communities subjected to experimental burning and cutting, and situated on an altitudinal gradient. Climatic features are different in each area, but all had the common characteristic of very homogeneous vegetation cover before the disturbances, with only one shrub species clearly dominant, a different taxon in each area, and with different regeneration strategies. The first area was a heathland dominated by Calluna vulgaris, situated at an altitude of 1600 m, with a continental climate (mean annual precipitation 1320 mm). The second area was a heathland dominated by Erica australis, located at an altitude of 1000 m (mean annual precipitation 840 mm). The third area was a Cistus ladanifer shrubland, located at 900 m altitude, with a Mediterranean climate similar to that of the previous area, but with lower mean annual precipitation (470 mm). Erica australis recovers by vegetative resprouting, but Cistus ladanifer is an obligate seeder, as is Calluna vulgaris in these areas. Each experimental disturbance was carried out over 100 m in each area. Post-fire recovery is faster in Cistus ladanifer: 2 years after burning there was 40% cover vs. less than 20% in the other two species. However, recovery after cutting was similar for Cistus ladanifer and Erica australis. Calluna vulgaris recovers very slowly, with cover values below 20% even 10 years after both disturbances. Cover of dominant shrub species is negatively correlated with cover of herbaceous species. So different recovery of dominant species lead a different community dynamic in each area.
20146959|About 45% of the total surface area of the Castile and Leon region today can potentially be occupied by semi-deciduous forests, chiefly dominated by Quercus faginea Willd. and Quercus pyrenaica Lam. On the basis of extrapolated trends in annual mean temperature and precipitation in Castile and Leon observed over the 37-year period from 1961 to 1997 [del Ro et al. 2005], predicted changes in the areas covered by Q. faginea and Q. pyrenaica forests in 2025, 2050 and 2075 were made. A decrease in Q. faginea forests may occur if observed trends in temperature and precipitation continue. With respect to Q. pyrenaica forests, they may increase in present Mediterranean areas and decreases in Temperate Submediterranean areas. In some cases, both types of forests could be replaced by deciduous forests. The predicted results in the natural distribution of vegetation types by the bioclimatic models can be used to establish policies for improved future nature conservation and land management.
20051207|Species composition and forest structure change with topography. However, mechanisms for topographical vegetation changes are still not well understood, because a topographical gradient is a complex environmental gradient inclusive of many factors. The foot of Mt. Kinabalu is covered with three types of geological substrates, i.e. Quaternary and Tertiary sedimentary rocks and ultrabasic (serpentine) rock. Quaternary and Tertiary sedimentary rocks are different in site age, but controlled in primary minerals. Tertiary sedimentary and ultrabasic rocks are contrasting in primary minerals, but are comparable in age. This setting provides an opportunity to examine the vegetation differentiation along topographical gradients that are contrasting in major-nutrient supply due to the difference in site age and parent rock. We established a total of nine study plots by choosing three topographical units (ridge, middle- and lower-slope) on each substrate in the tropical lower montane forest. Pool size and supply of soil N and P decreased upslope on each substrate, and the magnitude of the reduction from slope to ridge decreased in the order of Quaternary sedimentary &gt Tertiary sedimentary &gt ultrabasic rock. Between-substrate difference in soil nutrient condition was greater on the lower-slopes than the ridges. Maximum tree size decreased and stem density increased upslope on each substrate. Detrended correspondence analysis demonstrated that species composition also changed along topographical gradients on all substrates. However, the magnitude of topographical changes in forest structure and species composition varied with substrate and decreased from Quaternary sedimentary &gt Tertiary sedimentary &gt ultrabasic rock. The greatest between-substrate difference in vegetation occurred on the lower-slopes. Accordingly, our results suggest that the magnitude of vegetation changes due to topography becomes smaller with decreasing pool size and supply of nutrients.
20146449|The relationship between vegetation cover and soil seed banks was studied in five different ungulate herbivore-prairie dog treatment combinations at three northern mixed-grass prairie sites in Badlands National Park, South Dakota. There were distinct differences in both the seed bank composition and the aboveground vegetation between the off-prairie dog colony treatments and the on-colony treatments. The three on-colony treatments were similar to each other at all three sites with vegetation dominated by the forbs Dyssodia papposa, Hedeoma spp., Sphaeralcea coccinea, Conyza canadensis, and Plantago patagonica and seed banks dominated by the forbs Verbena bracteata and Dyssodia papposa. The two off-colony treatments were also similar to each other at all three sites. Vegetation at these sites was dominated by the grasses Pascopyrum smithii, Bromus tectorum and Bouteloua gracilis and the seed banks were dominated by several grasses including Bromus tectorum, Monroa squarrosa, Panicum capillare, Sporobolus cryptandra and Stipa viridula. A total of 146 seedlings representing 21 species germinated and emerged from off-colony treatments while 3069 seedlings comprising 33 species germinated from on-colony treatments. Fifteen of the forty species found in soil seed banks were not present in the vegetation, and 57 of the 82 species represented in the vegetation were not found in the seed banks. Few dominant species typical of mixed-grass prairie vegetation germinated and emerged from seed banks collected from prairie dog colony treatments suggesting that removal of prairie dogs will not result in the rapid reestablishment of representative mixed-grass prairie unless steps are taken to restore the soil seed bank.
40212895|Leaf litter accumulation can have either positive, negative or neutral effects on seed germination and seedling recruitment. In montane woodlands of the Mediterranean zone of central Chile, large amounts of leaf litter accumulate beneath the crowns of the summer semideciduous tree Kageneckia angustifolia and no regeneration of this or other plant species has been observed beneath this tree throughout the year. In a sample plot of 5000 m we selected ten K. angustifolia trees and measured (1) leaf litter accumulation beneath and outside canopy; (2) the effects of time elapsed since burial on viability of K. angustifolia seeds with and without a leaf litter cover; (3) field seed germination with presence or absence of leaf litter and (4) the possible chemical effects of K. angustifolia leaf litter leachates on seed germination of its own seeds and of other two co-occurring native shrubs species (Guindilia trinervis and Solanum ligustrinum). Our results show that a considerable accumulation of leaf litter occurred beneath K. angustifolia, and litter negatively affected seed viability and germination of this species in the field. Under laboratory conditions, K. angustifolia leaf litter leachates inhibited seed germination of its own seeds and of the two native shrub species. Chemical effects are likely involved in the negative effects of leaf litter on the recruitment of K. angustifolia in the montane sclerophyllous woodland of central Chile.
20050506|This study was conducted during the 1990 planting cycle and focused on interactions between trees and the herbaceous layer caused by their phenological behaviour in a Sahelian semi-arid savanna. The results show that (1) the plant phenological development (tree and grassy group) was synchronous; (2) the tree phenological behaviours were most clearly differentiated because reproduction, flowering and fructification phases were spread out throughout the year and (3) the herbaceous species cycle was then essentially determined by the short biologically damp period, 60 days in 1990. The foliage stage of the ligneous species spread on the considered period, with a reduced realization rate (30 to 40%) due to an invasion of locusts. At the grassy group level, the considerable growth rate in every development stage indicated that there was apparently no competition for soil water. Both trees and grass used the available soil water with grass only exploiting the upper soil layer. /// Cette tude se propose d'tablir les interactions Herbe/Arbre  travers les stades phnologiques des principales espces ligneuses et de la strate herbace tablie sous l'arbre  partir d'observations menes au cours du cycle 1990. Les rsultats montrent une superposition des cycles phnologiques du peuplement ligneux et du groupement herbeux. La phase de feuillaison des espces ligneuses tudies s'tale sur toute la priode considre. Le taux d'accomplissement des diffrentes phnophases est gnralement faible (30  40%) en raison de l'invasion par des criquets. Le taux d'accomplissement des phnophases au niveau du groupement herbeux indique qu'il n'y a apparemment pas de comptition pour l'eau; le partage de l'eau du sol entre l'herbe et l'arbre se faisant principalement dans l'espace.
20146466|The Bolivian Prepuna is a high-altitude, summer-rain semidesert. The aim of this work was to sample, for the first time, the composition, abundance, and distribution of its seed bank in two different seasons. Soil samples were collected at four sites with a corer (3.5 cm diameter, 2.5 cm deep), 80 in January (summer) and 80 in May (autumn). On each date, half the samples came from under shrubs and half from between shrubs. Seeds were separated from the soil by a flotation-filtering technique and compared with a reference collection established previously. Seeds belonging to a few species, mostly summer annuals, were found in the seed bank. These had heterogeneous distribution in the soil. However, there were more seeds in areas under shrubs. The relatively low seed bank density (1150-1650 seeds/m) may have been due mainly to precipitation values well below the average in the previous growing season. Despite its low density, seeds &gt 0.25 mg represented 92% of seed bank's total dry weight. Long-term studies are needed to assess true seasonal and annual fluctuations of Prepuna's seed bank.
40606962|The application of niche-based modelling techniques to plant species has not been explored for the majority of taxa in Europe, primarily due to the lack of adequate distributional data. However, it is of crucial importance for conservation adaptation decisions to assess and quantify the likely pool of species capable of colonising a particular region under altered future climate conditions. We here present a novel method that combines the species pool concept and information about shifts in analogous multidimensional climate space. This allows us to identify regions in Europe with a current climate which is similar to that projected for future time periods in Germany. We compared the extent and spatial location of climatically analogous European regions for three projected greenhouse gas emission scenarios in Germany for the time period 2071-2080 (+ 2.4C, + 3.3C, + 4.5C average increase in mean annual temperature) to those of the recent past in Europe (1961-90). Across all three scenarios, European land areas which are characterised by climatic conditions analogue to those found in Germany decreased from 14% in 1961-1990 to ca. 10% in 2071-2080. All scenarios show disappearing current climate types in Germany, which can mainly be explained with a general northwards shift of climatically analogous regions. We estimated the size of the potential species pool of these analogous regions using floristic inventory data for the Iberian Peninsula as 2,354 plant species. The identified species pool in Germany indicates a change towards warmth and drought adapted southern species. About one-third of the species from the Iberian analogous regions are currently already present in Germany. Depending on the scenario used, 1,372 (+ 2.4C average change of mean annual temperature), 1,399 (+3.3C) and 1,444 (+ 4.5C) species currently not found in Germany, occur in Iberian regions which are climatically analogous to German 2071-80 climate types. We believe that our study presents a useful approach to illustrate and quantify the potential size and spatial distribution of a pool of species potentially colonising new areas under changing climatic conditions.
40305506|Floodplain vegetation occupies disturbance prone habitats vulnerable to exotic plant invasion. Black willow {Salix nigra Marshall) is a flood-tolerant tree native to the southeastern United States and recently invasive in Australia, where it is considered detrimental to riparian environments. Effective management of 5. nigra requires understanding the impacts of hydrological conditions on population dynamics at each stage of the plant's life cycle. The influence of inundation events (timing, duration, and recession rates) on S. nigra stand dynamics and relative growth rate (RGR) was quantified across a hydrological gradient on the shorelines of Blowering Dam reservoir (NSW, Australia). Successful recruitment (sexual and asexual) and establishment is highly dependent on the position of S. nigra recruits above reservoir water levels and exposure to flooding during the first few years of establishment. Recruitment was ubiquitous along the hydrological gradient but a greater number of asexual recruits were found at higher elevations where inundation events are less frequent. Juvenile mortality was highest at lower elevations, which experienced greater depth and duration of inundation. Mean RGR was greatest in S. nigra stands experiencing no inundation over the study period and declined as inundation duration increased. Flooding events inhibit adult growth, but create suitable conditions for seedling recruits, provided the depth and duration of the flood does not exceed complete submersion for more than 30 days. To investigate relative tolerance to water table decline rooted S. nigra cuttings were grown in rhizopods, controlled growth devices that allow watertable manipulation. Water-table decline rates of 0, 1, 2,4, and 8 cm day" 1 were applied and the response of leaf abscission measured. 5. nigra cuttings were not significantly impacted at water-table decline rates of between 1 and 4 cm day" 1 . Spatial location of S. nigra recruits in Australian floodplains represents a trade-off among hydrological conditions that promote recruitment without inducing mortality, resulting in a narrow spatial and temporal regeneration window critical to successful establishment. Future distribution and abundance of 5. nigra in Australia will be determined by propagule availability and the degree to which current and future flow regimes create suitable hydrological conditions for successful establishment.
40305741|The survival of alpine species in changing climates depends on dispersal or adaptation. However, it is unclear whether trait variability along elevation/climatic gradients is adaptive or represents stress towards lower/warmer elevations, particularly for the endangered endemics for which protected status and plant longevity preclude experimental study. We chose one such species, known for its phenotypic variability (Primula glaucescens, endemic to the southern Alps), and quantified key functional traits in situ throughout its range, correlating these with elevation as a proxy for climate. Larger leaves were evident towards lower elevations, but tissue nitrogen dilution and limited regenerative fitness were symptomatic of stress. Specific leaf area, a correlate of relative growth rate, was consistently low: the entire species exhibits conservative leaf economy and inherently slow growth. This seemingly variable species exhibits superficial variability around a fundamentally conservative, cold-adapted survival strategy, and thus phenotypic variability is unlikely to facilitate the persistence of alpine endemics during rapid climate warming.
20051311|Lake Bardawil is the only oligotrophic hypersaline lagoon along the Mediterranean coast of Egypt. Its ecological significance is increasing due to the progressive degradation of comparable wetlands in the region. The aim of this study is to analyse the structure and life forms of the vegetation along the lake before the execution of the North Sinai Agricultural Development Project (NSADP) which will threaten the ecosystem of the lake. A data set of 150 stands was analysed using multivariate procedures (TWINSPAN, DCA and CCA), to classify the lake's vegetation, and to determine the relationship between the plant community structure and the environmental factors. The classification and ordination resulted in a clear demonstration of nine vegetation groups associated with four habitat types: submerged sea grasses, salt marshes and sabkhahs, eastern and middle calcareous dunes, and western non-calcareous dunes. The first axis of the CCA-ordination separates the salt marshes and sabkhahs species from those of the sand dunes along the soil salinity, water table depth, cations, and pH gradients. CaCO and soil texture showed highly significant correlation with the second axis of CCA which was an important predictor for the psammophytic species distribution. The life forms ranged from hydrophytes (sea grasses) to phanerophytes with the dominance of therophytes and chamaephytes. Geophytes and chamaephytes dominate the saline habitats, while therophytes and hemicryptophytes dominated the sandy dunes. Eventhough the eastern section of the lake (Lake Zaraniq) was declared as a RAMSAR site, Lake Bardawil needs urgent management to prevent its pollution by the new land use system.
20050683|Early succession from annuals to herbaceous and woody perennials on abandoned fields and grasslands is marked by vegetation heterogeneity; i.e., variation in canopy composition and structure over the field through time. Soil resource heterogeneity could promote vegetation heterogeneity. We created soil resource patchiness on two newly ploughed fields by establishing two types (fertilized, unfertilized) of checkerboard plots with two, four, or eight subplots (trenched, untrenched) to test effects of soil fertility heterogeneity scale on vegetation heterogeneity during early succession. Canopy composition and structure were censused in years 2, 4 and 6. On both fields, soil resource heterogeneity did not affect canopy composition or structure. Differential abundance of dominant species, Ambrosia trifida on one field and Solidago altissima on the other, between fertilized and unfertilized plots led to decreased vegetation heterogeneity among subplots within plots and increased vegetation heterogeneity among plots. Soil enrichment promoted taller and layered, but species-poor, canopy. In general, soil fertility effects on abundance, expansion, and dominance of individuals of dominant species promoted variation in canopy composition and structure, or vegetation heterogeneity, among plots on the two fields.
20050572|A quantitative gradient study in a central Himalayan mixed Quercus forest (Q. semecarpifolia and Q. lamellosa) was made to evaluate the relationships between environmental variables and species composition at different scales. The data (91 taxa  120 sub-plots) were sampled at three sites, where groups of four sub-plots (2.5 m  2.5 m) were sampled within 10 m  10 m. The species data were analysed together with the environmental data (elevation, relative radiation (RI) and soil variables) using Correspondence Analysis (CA) and its constrained version (CCA). The environmental variables used in CCA were chosen by forward selection. Elevation was the over-riding complex gradient (2000-3000 m a.s.l.), with loss-on-ignition, total nitrogen, and RI covarying. The most important factors independent of elevation were available phosphorus and tree canopy cover, whereas pH and nitrogen had minor independent influences. The overall species environment correlation was highest for the largest plot size. The species environment correlation increased with spatial extent for the largest plot size. The field-layer and shrub-tree strata did not consistently differ in their concordance between species and environment. The field-layer species had a stronger relationships with the soil variables, which may relate to rapid changes over a short spatial extent both for the field-layer species and for the soil variables.
40305707|I studied the relationship between seedset patterns within inflorescences and temporal variations in light and pollinator availabilities for 2 years in the spring ephemeral species Gagea lutea in a deciduous forest. Timing of canopy closure and seasonal trend of pollinator frequency did not synchronize with the annual fluctuation in flowering phenology. In the early snowmelt year, seed-set success reflected the seasonal pollinator abundance from early to middle flowering periods. In the late snowmelt year, however, seed-set rates were independent of pollinator activity and decreased with canopy closing even after hand pollination. The restricted seed production by defoliation and the increase in seed-set rates at the forest edge suggested that seed production was supported by current photosynthetic carbon gain. Thus, annual fluctuations of reproductive success can explain the variation in flowering phenology within a population although seasonal light deterioration would serve as a selective force for flowering in the early season.
41508756|To investigate the variations of anatomical and photosynthetic carbon metabolic characteristics within one species in response to increasing soil water stress, leaf anatomical characteristics, gas exchange and the activity of key enzymes in photosynthesis and photorespiration were compared in different ecotypes of Phragmites communis growing in an oasis-desert transitional zone (ODTZ) from swamp habitat (plot 1-3) via heavy salt meadow (plot 4-7) and light salt meadow habitat (plot 8-9) to dune habitat (plot 10-13) in Northwest China. The results showed that interveinal distance (ID) decreased with increasing water stress except that in plots of dune reed (DR). Vein mean diameter (VMD) in plot 10, 11 and 12 of the DR was significantly larger than that in other ecotypes. Leaf specific porosity (LSP) enhanced from plot 4 to plot 13 from heave salt meadow reed (HSMR) to light salt meadow reed (LSMR) and to DR. Chlorophyll fluorescence in bundle sheath cells were microscopically found in four ecotypes, especially significantly in the DR. Net CO assimilation rate (A n ) dropped rapidly from the swamp reed (SR) to the HSMR and then increased progressively from the LSMR to the DR. Stomatal conductance (g s ) decreased and the water use efficiency (WUE) rose from the wet to the dry ecotypes. Sensitivity of g s to intercellular CO concentration (C i ) increased, but glycolate oxidase (GO) activity gradually reduced with increasing soil water deficiency. The RuBPCase activity did not reduce in four ecotypes even in DR, but, the PEPCase and NAD-ME activities as well as the ratio of PEPCase/RuBPCase were gradually enhanced with increasing soil water stress. We concluded that anatomical and photosynthetic carbon assimilating characteristics in P. communis were developing to the direction of C metabolism in response to the increasing drought stress in desert areas. The DR enduring severe water stress had more C like photosynthetic features than the HSMR and LSMR as well as SR, according to significantly increased VMD and LSP and higher g s sensitivity to C i as well as higher PEPCase activity and lower GO activity in the DR.
20051144|The shortgrass steppe is co-dominated by two C perennial grasses, Bouteloua gracilis and Buchlo dactyloides. At our site and throughout eastern Colorado Bouteloua gracilis has higher cover and biomass than Buchlo dactyloides. We hypothesized that the interaction between seedling recruitment differences and disturbance regime and tolerance to drought conditions were the most likely causes of the observed differences in relative abundances. We used a simulation model to investigate the relative importance of the three factors. We studied plant biomass of these two species in 18 simulated treatments that resulted from a factorial combination of seedling recruitment differences, disturbance regime, and tolerance to drought conditions. Analysis of the simulation outputs with ANOVA indicated that biomass of each species responded positively to increases in recruitment probability. Increasing disturbance frequency favored Buchlo dactyloides over Bouteloua gracills, whereas the susceptibility Buchlo dactyloides to drought favored Bouteloua gracilis. The results indicated that differences in drought tolerance and seedling recruitment probabilities along with their interactions with disturbance regimes exert a major control on the biomass of the species. In the absence of or with intermediate disturbance, a higher recruitment probability and greater tolerance to drought of Bouteloua gracilis than Buchlo dactyloides yielded patterns of relative biomass similar to the patterns observed in the shortgrass steppe.
20050755|The effect of artificial shoot clipping on the vegetative growth and sexual reproduction of the evergreen bearberry, Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, and the deciduous bog bilberry, Vaccinium uliginosum, was studied in the vicinity of a copper-nickel smelter in SW Finland. According to the research hypothesis, heavy metal induced shoot death breaks the apical dominance in the clones growing in a polluted environment. This causes activation of dormant axillary and adventitious buds and an increase in branching on the older parts of the stem. Regrowth after shoot death was studied by clipping off all the current-year shoots from experimental branches in autumn (1994) and spring (1995). Within-clone and between-clone control branches were used to test the data. Both species displayed a considerable ability to activate dormant meristems after the damage. Regrowth of the current shoots during the next growing season (1995) was about 80% compared to the within-clone control in both species after autumn clipping. Shoot clipping in early summer was more detrimental for both species, and the regrowth of A. uva-ursi was less than that of V. uliginosum. Differences in the storage reserves and source-sink mechanisms of carbon allocation between evergreen and deciduous species probably explain their distinct response. When the removed biomass was added to the living biomass of the branches, there was overcompensation in the total dry weight of A. uva-ursi after autumn clipping, and the weight was almost 90% of the control after spring clipping. The total dry weight of V. uliginosum also equalled that of the control when the removed biomass was added. No berries developed on either species in the year following the autumn treatment, because clipping removed all the flower buds. Spring clipping had no effect on the sexual reproduction of A. uva-ursi, but decreased the berry production of V. uliginosum. The degree of compensatory growth of both species was only slightly affected by the distance from the smelter. It is suggested that dormant bud activation, rapid regrowth and plastic branching contribute to the resistance mechanism to heavy metals.
20050940|Most of the area in pine woodlands is occupied by perennial seeders that regenerate from seeds in the first winter after the fire and by annuals. Control of the germination in the regenerating vegetation after wildfire is therefore a primary ecological component of the post-fire succession in this ecosystem. The aim of the study presented here was to determine the distribution of Pinus, Cistus and other plants seeds around burned Pinus halepensis trees, and to measure the condition related to seed germination in the upper soil layers in the same locations. The study was carried out in a 50-year old planted Pinus halepensis woodland that was burned down by a wildfire in July 1995. The variation of seedbank density was determined by collecting samples under the canopies of burned trees and in a nearby open area. Pine seedbank density decreased and that of Cistus and annuals increased with increasing distance from the burned trunks. Most pine seeds were present in the ash layer while those of the other plants were in the soil. In situ germination experiments showed that seedling density decreased with distance from the burned trunks while the proportion of pines in the seedling population increased. This was a result of seedbank variation and germination inhibition by the high pH conditions caused by the ash. The establishment of sparse pine seedling under the dead tree canopies insured their rapid development without interference by other plants and played a key role in the regeneration and stability of the pine woodland community. The concomitant mass germination of the perennial seeders in the rest of the area prevented invasion by annuals.
20146577|Recurrent anthropogenic and natural perturbations, resource limitations and heterogeneous environments contribute to the maintenance of a remarkable biodiversity in Mediterranean plant communities. Yet, the essential mechanisms of community assembly in these systems remain largely unexplored. In the current paper we investigate the coexistence of Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Mill.) and Holm oak (Quercus ilex L.), two of the most widely distributed species in the Iberian Peninsula, in relation to gradients in water availability and disturbance. A spatial model of landscape forest dynamics was implemented, calibrated with experimental data, with stands arranged on a heterogeneous lattice and coupled by dispersal. It was found that pine population persistence in the landscape can be explained independently by a competition-colonization tradeoff (in mesic homogeneous environments) and by a tradeoff between shade and drought tolerance (in heterogeneous low disturbed environments). Both mechanisms reinforce mutually to maintain a shifting mosaic of both taxa along disturbance and aridity gradients. This view is consistent with palynological, historical and forest inventory records. In turn, equilibrium theories of vegetation dynamics (phytosociological), that neglect the role of heterogeneity and disturbances may be inadequate for Mediterranean forests, and have been shown to result in mismanagement practices. We claim that biologically informed models of forest dynamics are desperately needed as diagnosis tools for sustainable forest management.
41508763|Climate change-induced droughts have contributed to large-scale die-offs of dominant tree species throughout much of the southwestern United States. These mortality events provide ecologists with the opportunity to determine whether afterlife effects associated with the die-off occur and the potential implications for future ecosystem changes. We studied both the afterlife and interaction effects of condition (dead trees, living trees, and open areas) on understory vegetation in a Juniperus monosperma woodland of northern Arizona 7 years after a major mortality event. Five major findings resulted: (1) there was a positive afterlife effect on understory plants, in which vegetation under dead junipers contained almost double the amount of cover; (2) the competitive effect on understory plants was exemplified by a 1.3 times greater cover and 1.6 additional species in open areas compared to under living junipers; (3) plant community composition significantly differed by aspect and condition; (4) the highly invasive cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) was 1.5 times greater under dead junipers compared to live junipers; and (5) litter depth and light availability were negatively and positively correlated with plant cover, respectively, but weakly correlated with afterlife effects. Our results indicate that mortality events can promote changes in understory vegetation through afterlife effects. In ecosystems where foundation species suffer high rates of mortality, changes in plant population dynamics and ecosystem function may promote an altered trajectory in community composition with the potential to increase the presence of invasive species. Continued species die-offs associated with climate change-induced drought may contribute to an increased occurrence and legacy of afterlife effects.
20146700| The impact of interspecific competition is usually measured by its effect upon plant growth, neglecting impacts upon other stages of the life cycle such as fecundity which have a direct influence upon individual fitness and the asymptotic population growth rate of a population (). We used parameterized matrix models for three perennial plant species grown with and without interspecific competition to illustrate how the methodology of Life Table Response Experiments (LTRE) can be used to link any change in population dynamics to changes in any part of the life cycle. Plants were herbaceous grassland species grown for two years in a field experiment at Rothamsted Experimental Station, England. Interspecific competition reduced  by over 90% in all species. Survival and growth were slightly affected by competition whereas plant fecundity was greatly reduced. Nearly all of the observed difference in  between the competition treatments was explained by the fecundity terms, and more precisely by a large difference in the number of seeds, and a high sensitivity of  to the germination rate. Whereas most competition studies focus on the measurement of change in individual fitness, our study illustrates how informative it is to take account not only of the effect of competition upon vital rates but also of how different vital rates affect population growth rate. 
41508745|Along the Atlantic coast of South America, the northern salt marshes (lower than 43S) are dominated by Spartina species while the southern salt marshes (greater than 43S) are dominated by Sarcocornia perennis. The most abundant Spartina species are Spartina densiflora which is present in most coastal marshes, and Spartina alterniflora that was never recorded above the ~4225'S. It is not clear why S. alterniflora has not succeeded in the southern marshes, in which the low marsh zone remains as an extensive bared mud flat. We address the hypothesis that the absence of S. alterniflora in the south is driven by the cold temperatures inversely related with increasing latitudes along the East coast of Patagonia. To evaluate this hypothesis, we carried out an experiment in which we manipulated the temperature in combination with frost formation and photoperiod. We found that cold temperature produced a negative effect on S. alterniflora, and this effect seems accentuated by the frost but not by the reduction in the photoperiod. Our results support the hypothesis that the absence of S. alterniflora in the southernmost salt marshes of Patagonia is a consequence of the frost as an outcome of the co-occurrence of low temperature and high humidity. The importance of our results are discussed in the context of the global warming and how Spartina species enlarge their distributional range toward higher latitudes.
20050665|We assessed patterns of herbaceous and woody species richness, plant-environment interactions, and correspondence between the herb and tree layer in a riparian landscape (the Ozark National Scenic Riverways, Missouri, USA). A total of 269 herb and 70 tree species were identified on 94 sample plots. Gradient analysis revealed that environmental variables and vegetation were influenced by a strong elevation gradient. However, high variability in environmental variables (pH, elevation, slope, sand, clay, organic matter) indicated a high level of substrate heterogeneity across the riparian landscape. We were unable to predict the composition of the herb understory from the canopy trees with any detailed accuracy and no clear characterization of herb species assemblages was found using cluster analysis or ecological land type (ELT) classifications. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) results for both tree and herb plots showed that elevation (height above river) and pH were the dominant environmental gradients influencing vegetation patterns on the first CCA axis while soil particle size exhibited the strongest correlation with the second CCA axis. Secondary gradients of importance included slope, soil container capacity, and organic matter. No significant linear or quadratic correlation was found between elevation and herb or woody species richness. Environmental variables alone or in combination, were weak predictors of herb and woody species richness, despite the patterns observed in the gradient analysis and the correlations observed in the CCA results. Ecotonal analysis showed that the herb layer exhibited a high species replacement rate at the lower elevations most susceptible to flooding (0-3 m). Above the flooding zone, there was more or less continuous species replacement, suggesting the presence of a gradual ecotone/ecocline. The tree layer exhibited much stronger discontinuities than the herb layer in the lower elevations along the height gradient (0-10 m). Recognizing the limitations of classification techniques for riparian herb assemblages and the importance of scale and heterogeneity in vegetation layers is especially important in light of mandates to preserve, protect, and manage for plant diversity.
40305662|Here, we investigated how species from different floodplain meadow plant communities differ in their ecophysiological responses to an abrupt change in hydrological conditions. We simulated two contrasting hydrological scenarios for 5 weeks under controlled conditions: the waterlogging of a mesophilic species mixture (flooding scenario) and the drying of a hygrophilic species mixture (drying scenario). The mesophilic mixture was composed of three characteristic species of dry habitats (dry species) and three indifferent species with regard to the hydrological conditions; the hygrophilic mixture was composed of three characteristic species of wet habitats (wet species) and the same three indifferent species. The flooding scenario induced a significant decrease in photochemical efficiency
20146709| Two morphotypes of the evergreen shrub Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis occur in the Shirley Basin of central Wyoming (USA), one of which was associated exclusively with Mima-like mounds generated by animal burrowing activity. Measured on a particularly dry year according to a 34-year precipitation record, plants growing on mounds (M) versus inter-mound locations (IM) were taller with greater leaf biomass and leaf area per unit ground area, and had over 90% of all inflorescences. As a result, the landscape consists of a patchy distribution of reproductive islands ( 20-40 m in size) separated by a mean distance of  30 m. In addition, greater photosynthesis per unit leaf area occurred for M plants when ephemeral leaves dominated total leaf area in spring and early summer, as well as during short time periods (&lt 3 days) following sporadic rainfall events in summer when only perennial leaves were present. As a result, estimated total annual carbon gain was 41% greater for M plants from May to mid-June, but was not significantly different from IM plants for the remainder of the season, resulting in a total summer carbon gain that was 14% greater in M plants. Stomatal and nonstomatal conductances to CO uptake were also greater for the ephemeral leaves of M plants, along with lower internal CO concentrations (193  4 l l vs. 209  8 l l, respectively). M plants also maintained higher xylem water potentials throughout most of the growth season (-1.1  0.1 SD MPa in May, declining to -4.4  0.3 SD MPa in August), along with higher water use efficiencies (photosynthesis/transpiration). M and IM soils did not differ significantly in total organic or nitrate contents, although leaf nitrogen content was higher in M plants when photosynthesis was also greater. Photosynthesis in M plants also responded more positively to afternoon showers greater than about 7 mm compared to IM plants. Thus, improved water and nutrient relations was associated with enhanced photosynthetic carbon gain in M plants, enabling greater flower production. Moreover, morphotypic plasticity coupled with the effects of animal burrows may have substantially increased sexual reproductive success in A. t. wyomingensis. 
40666579|Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. (Californian, Canada, or creeping thistle) is an exotic perennial herb indigenous to Eurasia that successfully established in New Zealand (NZ) approximately 130 years ago.Presently, C. arvense is considered one of the worst invasive weeds in NZ arable and pastoral productions systems. A mechanism commonly invoked to explain the apparent increased vigour of introduced weeds is release from natural enemies. The enemy-release hypothesis (ERH) predicts that plants in an introduced range should experience reduced herbivory, particularly from specialists, and that release from this natural enemy pressure facilitates increased plant performance in the introduced range. In 2007, surveys were carried out in 13 populations in NZ (7 in the North Island and 6 in the South Island) and in 12 populations in central Europe to quantify and compare growth characteristics of C. arvense in its native versus introduced range. Altitude and mean annual precipitation for each population were used as covariates in an attempt to explain differences or similarities in plant traits among ranges. All plant traits varied significantly among populations within a range. Shoot dry weight was greater in the South Island compared to Europe, which is in line with the prediction of increased plant performance in the introduced range; however, this was explained by environmental conditions.Contrary to expectations, the North Island was not different from Europe for all plant traits measured, and after adjustment for covariates showed decreased shoot density and dry weight compared to the native range. Therefore, environmental factors appear to be more favourable for growth of C. arvense in both the North and South Islands. In accordance with the ERH, there was significantly greater endophagous herbivory in the capitula and stems of shoots in Europe compared to both NZ ranges. In NZ, capitulum attack from Rhinocyllus conicus was found only in the North Island, and no stem-mining attack was foundanywhere in NZ. Thus, although arvense experiences significantly reduced natural enemy pressure in both the North and South Islands of NZ there is no evidence that it benefits from this enemy release.
20050739|Correlations between terricolous bryophyte flora and edaphic parameters (pH, organic nitrogen (ON), C/N, Cation Exchange Capacity (CEC), Organic Matter (OM) and Pb, Cd and Zn soil contents) of metalliferous wastes in northern France were performed using statistical analysis (FCA, PCA and FCMA). The significant correlation between the classification based on the bryophyte flora and that based on edaphic variables shows that bryophyte groupings have a strong bioindicative value. More information was obtained by taking into account other parameters such as physiological stages (sterility, fertility, maturation, vitality). Three bryophyte classes were distinguished according to Cd, Pb and Zn soil contents.
20051093|Due to anthropogenic influences, both solar UV-B irradiance at the earth's surface and atmospheric [CO] are increasing. To determine whether effects of CO enrichment on faba bean (cv. Minica) growth are modified by UV-B radiation, the effects of enhanced [CO] on growth and photosynthetic characteristics, were studied at four UV-B levels. Faba bean was sensitive to enhanced UV-B radiation as indicated by decreases in total biomass production. Growth stimulation by CO enrichment was greatly reduced at the highest UV-B level. [CO] by UV-B interactions on biomass accumulation were related to loss of apical dominance. Both [CO] and UV-B radiation affected biomass partitioning, UV-B effects being most pronounced. Effects of [CO] and UV-B on faba bean growth were time-dependent, indicating differential sensitivity of developmental stages. [CO] and UV-B effects on photosynthetic characteristics were rather small and restricted to the third week of treatment. CO enrichment induced photosynthetic acclimation, while UV-B radiation decreased light-saturated photosynthetic rate. It is concluded that the reduction in biomass production cannot be explained by UV-B-induced effects on photosynthesis.
20146346|Trichloris crinita, a perennial forage grass native to the west arid Monte region of Argentina, has shown great variability in forage production among populations originated in different environments. In a previous study under irrigated conditions we concluded that higher productivity of some varieties was associated with larger total plant biomass and higher dry matter partitioning to aboveground organs. The goal of the present study was to investigate the ecophysiological basis of differential productivity in three varieties of T. crinita under water stress conditions. Varieties PICHI, ARROYITO and ENCON of high, medium and low productivity were evaluated under high and low water availability. Two cycles of water stress, maintained until leaves folded, were applied to each variety. Leaf folding occurred at different leaf water potential ($\Psi _{\text{L}}$) for each variety. At the end of the first stress cycle $\Psi _{\text{L}}$ were: PICHI -4.27 MPa, ARROYITO -3.26 MPa and ENCON -1.82 MPa. Each variety finished the stress cycle at a different time. Shoot/root ratio and DM partitioning to different organs were not modified by the water stress treatment for the three varieties thus, the relative differences among them were maintained. Shoot/root ratio of PICHI (3.2) was more than double of the least productive variety (ENCON). The higher productivity of PICHI is associated to a larger shoot/root ratio, faster production of leaf area and higher leaf, sheath, culm and panicle DM production. Root DM was not different among varieties. ENCON, coming from an area with lower rainfall and higher temperature, was the last to fold their leaves and had a higher leaf water potential at the end of the drought cycle, probably linked to its smaller leaf area and relatively larger root system.
20146602|We investigated the impacts of clearcutting on the ground vegetation of remnant late-successional coastal Acadian forests in southwestern Nova Scotia. Vegetation was sampled in 750 1-m quadrats established in 16 stands belonging to different recovery periods since clearcutting (3-54 years) and 9 late-successional forests (100-165 years) with no signs of significant human disturbance. Our objectives were to: i) describe the changes in species richness, diversity, and abundance of ground vegetation after clearcutting; ii) examine the responses of residual species (i.e., late-successional flora) to clearcutting; and iii) determine whether any forest species were restricted to or dependent upon the late-successional stages of stand development for maximal frequency and/or abundance. Although clearcutting had no immediate impact on overall alpha richness or diversity, the richness and diversity of residual plants declined after canopy removal and showed no evidence of recovery over 54 years of secondary succession. Consequently, compositional differences between secondary and late-seral stands persisted for many decades after clearcutting. Several understory herbs (e.g., Coptis trifolia (L.), Oxalis montana (L.), Monotropa uniflora (L.)) were restricted to or attained their highest frequency and abundance in late-seral forests. These results suggest that the preservation of remnant old stands may be necessary for the maintenance of some residual plants in highly disturbed and fragmented forest landscapes in eastern Canada.
40540323|We studied the effects of experimental warming and drought on the plant biomass of a Mediterranean shrubland. We monitored growth at plant level and biomass accumulation at stand level. The experimentation period stretched over 7 years (1999-2005) and we focused on the two dominant shrub species, Erica multiflora L. and Globularia alypum L. and the tree species Firms halepensis L. The warming treatment increased shoot elongation in E. multiflora, and the drought treatment reduced shoot elongation in G. alypum. The elongation of P. halepensis remained unaffected under both treatments. The balance between the patterns observed in biomass accumulation for the three studied species in the drought plots (reduction in E. multiflora and P. halepensis and increase in G. alypum) resulted in a trend to reduce 33% the biomass of the drought treatment plots with respect to the untreated plots, which almost doubled their biomass from 1998 to 2005. The results also suggest that under drier conditions larger accumulation of dead biomass may occur at stand level, which combined with higher temperatures, may thus increase fire risk in the Mediterranean area.
20146616|Although clonal growth is a dominant mode of plant growth in wetlands, the importance of clonal integration, resource sharing among ramets, to individual ramet generations (mother and daughter) and entire clones of co-existing species has not been well investigated. This study evaluated the significance of clonal integration in four sedge species of varying ramet aggregations, from clump-forming species (Clumpers - Carex sterilis, Eleocharis rostellata), with tightly aggregated ramets (rhizomes &lt 1 cm), to runner species (Runners - Schoenoplectus acutus, Cladium mariscoides), with loosely aggregated ramets. We manipulated clonal integration by either severing connections between target mother and daughter ramets or leaving connections intact, and then planted them in an intact neighborhood of a fen in Michigan, USA. We measured growth parameters of original and newly produced ramets over two growing seasons and conducted a final biomass harvest, to address four hypotheses. First, we expected integrated clones to accumulate more biomass than severed clones. However, final clone-level biomass and ramet production were the same for both treatments in all species although severing initially stimulated ramet production by Schoenoplectus and produced a more compact ramet aggregation in Cladium. Second, we hypothesized that mother ramets would experience a cost of integration, through reduced ramet or biomass production, while daughters would experience a benefit, through increased resource availability from mothers. Mother ramets of Cladium suffered a cost from integration, while Schoenoplectus mothers suffered a slight cost and Carex daughters saw a slight benefit. Finally, we hypothesized that integration would be more active in runner species than in clumper species. Indeed, we documented more active integration in runners than clumpers, but none of the study species were dependent upon integration for growth or survival once daughter ramets were established with their own roots and shoots. This study demonstrates that integration between established ramets may not be the most important advantage to clonal growth in this wetland field site. The loss of integration elicited varied responses among coexisting species in their natural habitat, somewhat but not completely related to their growth form, suggesting that a combination of plant life history traits contributes to the dependence upon clonal integration among established ramets of clonal species.
20050826|This study quantified relationships of understory vascular plant species composition and richness along environmental gradients over a broad spatial scale in second-growth oak forests in eastern North America. Species frequencies were recorded in 108 25  25 m plots in four study sites extending over 70 km in southern Ohio, U.S.A.. The plots were stratified into three long-term soil moisture classes with a GIS-derived integrated moisture index (IMI). In addition to the IMI, the environmental data matrix included eight soil and three overstory variables. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) indicated that variations in understory species composition were most strongly related to topographic variations in predicted moisture (IMI), N mineralization rate, nitrification rate, and soil pH. In addition, floristic variation at the regional scale was correlated with variations in soil texture, nitrification, pH, and PO, resulting from differences in the soil parent material complexes among sites. Species richness averaged 65 species/plot, and increased with moisture and fertility. Stepwise regression indicated that richness was positively correlated with N mineralization rate and nitrification rate, and inversely correlated with tree basal area. Greater richness on fertile plots was the largely the result of increasing forb richness. Forb richness per quadrat (2 m) was most strongly and positively related to N mineralization rate. Conversely, richness of understory individuals of tree species was greatest on xeric, less-fertile plots. Our results describe general, broad-scale species-environment relationships that occurred at both the topographic scale (long-term moisture status and fertility) and the regional scale (geomorphological differences among the sites). Strong species richness-N mineralization correlations indicate an important link between below-ground processes and above-ground biodiversity. Because N availability was a strong correlate to vegetation patterns at a broad-scale, our results suggest that the increasing rates of atmospheric N deposition in the region could have a major impact on understory vegetation dynamics.
40212877|Heathland management is an important tool with which to modify ecosystem impacts caused by atmospheric nutrient deposition. Since changes in nutrient availability as a result of management measures affect the outcomes of heathland succession and species competition, studies on this issue are important from both a nature conservation and management point of view. This study reports the effects of prescribed burning on nutrient availability in dry heathland soils and the nutrient content of the two competing heathland species Calluna vulgaris and Deschampsia flexuosa, with particular reference to N and P. We hypothesise that winter prescribed burning leads to additional N availability, which enhances the importance of P in the context of nutrient limitation in heathland ecosystems. In the nature reserve "Lueneburg Heath" (NW Germany) we examined the availability of nutrients in the humus horizons and in the leachate as well as the relevant C:element ratios in Calluna and Deschampsia before and after a burning experiment. Our results show that prescribed burning resulted in drastically increased
40607006|We analyzed the distributional pattern of species and environmental gradients across inland water-land palm ecotones (morichals) of the Orinoco lowlands to increase comprehension of the nature of ecotone heterogeneity. A total of 91 species (53 genera and 45 families) with aboveground phytomass > 0.1 g dry mass were recorded. Detrented canonical correspondence analysis (DCCA) indicated that vegetation phytomass was related strongly to soil properties, including gradients of silt (14.54.7%), exchangeable A1 (1.05-3.10 cmole kg1 ), K (0.03-0.30 cmole kg1 ), Na (0.01-0.08 cmole kg1 ), Mg (0.03-0.54 cmole kg1 ) concentrations, pH (3.7-5.0 units), and soil organic matter. Cluster analysis allowed the definition of four types of ecotones on the basis of hydrogeomorphic processes. The first major group (1) encompassing the sites from Venezuelan lowlands (i. e., 3V, 4V, 5V, 6V, and 7V) was related to less acidic soils with high organic matter content. The second group (II) from Eastern Colombian llanos (i. e., sites 8C, 9C, 11C, 12C, 13C, 14C, and 15C) was located in acidic soils (3.9-4.5 units) with high Mg concentration. The third group (III) (i. e., sites IV and 10C) was located in soils with high Na content, whereas the fourth group (IV) (i. e., site 2V) was characterized by species growing in soils with low exchangeable aluminum. The results evidenced the interactive role of valley constraint, landforms, hydrological regime, and soil feature in structuring the plant community. Biogeographic and floristic considerations were also taken into account to explain differences in species composition.
20146640|Interspecific associations detected in phytosociological data sets sampled in local areas can reflect locally specific combinations of environmental factors and may thus differ from the interspecific associations existing on a regional scale. As a result, vegetation units derived from numerical classifications of local data sets can accurately reflect local environmental gradients, but their boundaries or spectra of diagnostic species must be frequently adjusted when transferred to the regional scale. Local vegetation classifications can be useful for some purposes, but regional classifications are superior, as they facilitate communication among the researchers from different areas. We demonstrated changes in interspecific associations between regional and local scale, using a data set of 14 589 relevs of herbaceous vegetation of the Czech Republic, and 16 local subsets of this national data set. We focused on sociological species groups, derived statistically in the national data set. Changes in coherence of these groups when applied to the local data sets were described on the basis of statistical association between the relevs containing some species of these groups and the species belonging vs. not belonging to these groups. The results were summarized using the principal components analysis (PCA). In addition, relev data sets were compared with respect to presence/absence of sociological species groups, using the principal coordinate analysis (PCoA). The results of PCA and PCoA were compared by Procrustean analysis. Local data sets differed from the national data set to different extent. The national data set was more remote to the local data sets if the analysis focused on the coherence of species group rather than on presence/absence. The species groups from the national data set retained most of their coherence in low-altitude hilly landscapes with thermophilous flora, i.e., the most diverse landscape type of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, many species groups from the national data set could not be recognized in mountainous areas or flat lowlands. These results suggest that interspecific associations existing on regional scale are best reproduced in those local areas which have a high habitat heterogeneity or which have a central position along the major gradients existing on regional scale.
20146690|How isolation affects primary succession remains unresolved. Our hypotheses are: 1) the rate of succession is slowed within 50 m from sources and 2) dominance increases more rapidly if the growing season is longer. We sampled lahar vegetation near conifer forests on Mount St. Helens 23 years after the eruption using transects (Muddy) and grids (Butte Camp, BC). Transects were compared to isolated plots of the same age, while grids were compared to vegetation that was 400 years older. Cover declined with distance and with elevation on the Muddy due to denser seed rain near forests and shorter growing seasons at higher elevation. On BC-1, next to a forest, richness measures increased with distance, while cover decreased with elevation. On BC-2, more exposed than BC-1, mean richness and cover declined with elevation, but increased towards seed sources. Equitability increased with distance and with elevation on more stressful transects and on BC-1. Percent similarity (PS), a measure of floristic heterogeneity, declined with elevation on Muddy-SW. BC-1 PS decreased with both distance and elevation. Data from grids collected since 1987 showed that both sites became more homogeneous through time. Directional changes on BC-1 were greater than on BC-2, while annual variation of DCA scores declined only on BC-2. These differences are related to conifer dominance patterns. Succession is influenced by isolation, which controls the seed rain, and by stress, which controls establishment, the rate of biomass accumulation, and the spread of immigrants. Although community development is governed by environmental factors, this study shows that the effects of dispersal that result from distance factors can persist and may be a source of unexplained variation in mature communities.
20146822| The diversity of tropical dry forests is poorly described and their regeneration ecology not well understood, however they are under severe threat of conversion and degradation. The Hellshire Hills constitute a dry limestone forest reserve on the south coast of Jamaica that is of high conservation value. In order to describe the structure and composition of this forest and assess the extent to which the population structures of its tree species do characterize their regeneration ecologies, pre-disturbance structure, floristics and seedling populations were compared with post-disturbance species responses in twelve 15 m  15 m permanent sample plots which were laid out in a blocked design in April 1998, giving a total sample area of 0.27 ha. These plots were subjected to disturbance in April 1999 (cutting) with each of four blocks being assigned with two randomly allocated treatment plots (partially and clear cut) and one control plot (uncut). A total of 1278 trees (2 cm DBH) and 7863 seedlings and saplings (0-2 mm and 2-20 mm root collar diameter (RCD) respectively), comprising 60 and 52 species, respectively, were sampled in the plots prior to disturbance. The species-area curve for trees reached a maximum at 0.20 ha, and abundance was widely distributed amongst the species (26 had importance values greater than 1%); four species were notably codominant (with importance values between 7 and 8%). The forest stand structure had a reverse J-shaped curve for tree and for seedling/sapling size-class distributions, which indicated that the forest as a whole was probably regenerating adequately. From an analysis based on adult and sapling size-class distributions (SCDs), 21 species with 15 or more individuals were classified into 3 groups. Many of the species (15 of the 21), had flat adult SCDs that deviate from the whole-community reverse J-shaped SCD. However, sapling SCDs for 6 of the 15 species were strongly positive indicating the potential for their populations to be sustained by recruitment from the saplings present. No general association was found between these SCD species groupings and the actual ability of the species to recover from disturbance. Analysis of post-disturbance response revealed that for only 9 of the 21 species did adult SCDs provide adequate prediction, but for an additional 6 of the species information on sapling SCDs improved the accuracy of prediction if the 'release' of saplings or smaller individuals predominated recovery. However in this forest, recovery following disturbance which left stem and roots in place is predominantly by coppice regrowth, and there were no significant correlations found between adult SCDs and the species' ability to coppice. 
23267469|The relationships among leaf traits often reflect plant adaptation for coping with nutrient resources. However, the seasonal variations in leaf traits and their relationship with soil nutrients are not well understood. We sampled seven major functional traits of thirty trees and nine shrubs (sorted into different plant functional groups, PFGs, based on their growth form, leaf lifespan, and leaf shape) at different seasons in a managed forest plantation of Southeastern China. Both green leaf nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations (N green and P green ) decreased significantly from spring and summer to autumn, and varied significantly with PFGs (P < 0.05) at different times of the year. Across all plants, specific leaf area correlated positively with N green and P green in spring, summer, and winter, but not in autumn; N resorption proficiency generally correlated positively with N green in each season, while P resorption efficiency correlated positively with P green in spring and summer, but not in autumn and winter. Soil nitrogen availability correlated negatively with leaf nutrient traits in some seasons. In conclusion, leaf trait relationships varied among the seasons and among PFGs. Seasonal dynamics of leaf traits as well as soil nutrients' relations must be considered when exploring plant feedback to soil nutrients.
20051352|The fruiting phenology and fruit removal patterns of Rhus trichocarpa Miq. (Anacardiaceae) were investigated in a warm-temperate secondary forest in Japan. Mature fruits of this species are dispersed by birds. Effects of fruit display size and canopy openness on fruit removal were investigated in years with different fruit densities (i.e., masting and non-masting years). Moreover, effects of increased canopy openness during winter on fruit removal were also investigated. Seasonal patterns of fruit removal were quite different between masting and non-masting years. In the non-mast year, fruits were removed by birds soon after maturation in the summer. In contrast, in the mast year, fruits were removed gradually by birds from summer to winter. Moreover, the rate of fruit removal was greater for trees with a larger display size in the non-mast year, whereas that was greater for trees with greater canopy openness in the mast year. Canopy openness increased in winter, and fruit removal in winter was enhanced in trees with a more open canopy only in the non-mast year. These observations strongly suggest that avian dispersers became satiated in the mast year, whereas fruit removal was enhanced in the non-mast year. In the mast year, although many fruits were not dispersed until winter, they were neither depredated nor rotten, and the long period of fruit removal by birds may have enhanced fruit dispersal. The large abundance of seedlings and saplings of this species in Japanese secondary forests suggests that this fruiting strategy is beneficial.
23362481|Changes in plant species richness across environmental and temporal gradients have often been explained by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis and a unimodal diversityproductivity relationship. We tested these predictions using two sets of mountain plant communities assembled along postglacial successional and snow depth (disturbance and stress) gradients in maritime Kamchatka. In each community, we counted the number of species in plots of increasing sizes (0.0025100 m 2 ) and analyzed them using speciesarea curves fitted by the Arrhenius power function and the Gleason logarithmic function. A comparison of successional communities along a 270-year-old moraine chronosequence behind the receding Koryto Glacierrepresenting gradients of increasing productivity and resource competitionconfirmed the unimodal species richness pattern. The plant diversity peaked in a 6080-year-old SalixAlnus stand where light availability was sufficient to sustain a rich understory combining pioneer and late successional herbs. The closed Alnus canopy on older moraines caused a pronounced decrease in species richness for all plot sizes (interactive stage 80120 years since deglaciation). A slight increase in species richness in the oldest assortative stages (120270 years), when Alnus stands are mature, was found only at the smaller spatial scales. This reflects (i) the consolidation of clonal understory dominants and (ii) the absence of other woody species such as Betula ermanii whose invasion would eliminate Alnus and increase diversity at larger spatial scales. A comparative study of major mountain plant communities distributed above the Koryto Glacier foreland did not confirm the highest species richness at intermediate levels of disturbance and stress. Contrary to our expectation, the species richness was highest in alpine tundra and snowbed communities, which are subjected to severe winter frost and a short summer season, while less disturbed communities of subalpine meadows, heaths, and Betula ermanii woods were less species-rich. We attribute this pattern to differences in habitat area and species pool size.
20146716| Leaf litter fall is an important nutrient flux in temperature deciduous forests which supplies a large part of the rapidly mineralisable nutrient fraction to the soil. This study investigates nutrient return with leaf litter fall in 36 old-growth forest stands of Fagus sylvatica across a broad gradient of soil fertility covering 9 mesozoic and kaenozoic parent material types (three limestones, two sandstones, two clay stones, one sand and one loess substrate). Study objectives were to analyse (i) the dependency of leaf litter nutrient concentrations on soil fertility, and (ii) the relationship between soil fertility and nutrient return with leaf litter at the stand level. Beech stands on the nine parent material types produced similar annual leaf litter masses irrespective of soil fertility or acidity. Leaf litter from the nine parent materials showed only minor variation with respect to N and K concentrations (factors of 1.5 and 1.4), moderate variation for Ca, Mg and P concentrations (factors of 2.2 to 2.9), and high variation for Al and Mn concentrations (factors of 6.7 and 10.5). Consequently, annual nutrient return with litter fall (leaf litter mass x litter nutrient concentration) was more similar among the parent materials for N (165-273 mmol m yr) and K (16-30 mm m yr) than for Ca, P, Mg, Mn and Al. A possible explanation is increased N deposition in recent time. According to a correlation analysis, return rates of N, P, K and Mg (but not Ca) were independent of the pool size of the respective nutrient in the soil. N return rate was neither influenced by the soil pools of
24552028|We investigated climategrowth relationships (in terms of tree-ring width, basal area increment (BAI), and tree-ring 13C signatures) of Quercus petraea in Central Europe (Luxembourg). Tree responses were assessed for 160 years and compared for sites with contrasting water supply (i.e. Cambisols vs. Regosols with 175 and 42 mm available water capacity, respectively). Oak trees displayed very low climate sensitivity, and climatic variables explained only 24 and 21 % of variance in tree-ring width (TRW) (Cambisol and Regosol sites, respectively). Contrary to our expectations, site-related differences in growth responses (i.e. BAI, 13C signatures) to climate shifts were not significant. This finding suggests a high plasticity of oak trees in the study area. Despite a distinct growth depression found for all trees in the decade 19881997 (attributable to increasing annual mean temperatures by 1.1 C), oak trees completely recovered in subsequent years. This indicates a high resilience of sessile oak to climate change. Shifts in 13Ccorr signatures were mainly affected by temperature, and peaks in 13Ccorr values (corrected for the anthropogenic increase in atmospheric CO2) coincided with decadal maximum temperatures. Correlations between 13C signatures and TRW (mainly affected by precipitation) were not significant. This finding suggests that wood growth often was disconnected from carbon assimilation (e.g. due to carbon storage in the trunk or allocation to seeds). Since the selection of drought-resistant tree species gains importance within the context of adaptive forest management strategies, Q. petraea proves to be an adaptive tree species in Central Europe's forests under shifting climatic conditions.
20146851| Samples of an angiosperm species, nine lichen species and a terrestrial alga, were collected from a variety of Antarctic terrestrial habitats, and were analysed for C and N stable isotope composition. Collections were made along natural gradients, the marine gradient, running from the sea coast inland and the moisture gradient, determined by melt water and precipitation runoff, and running towards the sea coast. Considerable variation in stable isotope ratios was found; C values ranged between -16 and -32 and N values between -23 and +23 The variation in stable carbon isotope ratios could be attributed in part to species specific differences, but differences in water availability also played a role, as was shown for the terrestrial alga Prasiola crispa and the lichen species Usnea antarctica. The differences in the isotope ratios of nitrogen could be retraced to the origin of nitrogen: marine or terrestrial. The nitrogen stable isotope ratios were influenced by both the marine gradient from the sea inland and the melt water and precipitation flow running in the opposite direction, towards the sea. This was shown for the lichen species Turgidosculum complicatulum and the angiosperm species Deschampsia antarctica. The variation in the C and N stable isotope ratios can be used to determine sources and pathways of N and changes in the water availability in Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems. Contrary to earlier reports the use of stable N isotope ratios is possible in this case because of the relative simplicity of the structure of the Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems. 
20050978|An unresolved discussion in contemporary ecology deals with the relative importance of competition along environmental gradients. In deserts, local-scale differences in environmental productivity may be caused by the presence of shrubs, which represent a favorable habitat for annual populations within a nutrient-poor matrix. In this study, we attempted to test the hypothesis that facilitation of desert annuals by shrubs increase the intensity of competition among the annual plants. Such negative indirect effects have so far been ignored in studies about plant-plant interactions. We tested our hypothesis by measuring seedling survival and fecundity of four abundant annual plant species with and without neighbors in open areas and under shrub canopies in a sandy desert area. Our findings did not indicate indirect negative effects of shrubs on their understory annuals. Sensitivity to the presence of neighbors varied between species and surprisingly, the species with the smallest seeds was the only one which was not negatively affected by the presence of neighbors. In contrast to our hypothesis, there was no difference between the habitat types shrubs and openings in absolute and relative competition intensity. Our overall results suggest that negative indirect effects of shrubs are unimportant in determining demographic response of understory annual plants.
40606945|In view of the progressive destruction of the biosphere, biodiversity research plays an important role in the search for factors affecting species diversity and in the analysis of the effects of species diversity on ecosystems. However, research into how species diversity and composition are related to genetic structures is still at the beginning. In this study, we combined population genomics, new correlative approaches, and randomization permutation methods to identify adaptive genetic differentiation in populations of the Norway spruce Picea abies L. that display different levels of species diversity. We detected a significant positive large covariation (C) between species diversity (v a ) and genotype frequency at a gene locus, resulting from differential selection by species diversity or by environmental factors. The results may contribute to understand the interplay between ecological and evolutionary processes in determining community structure and dynamics.
40666582|The drawdown zone of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region was assumed to be completely formed in 2009 and the water level would range from ~ 145 m in flood season (summer) to ~ 175 m during non-flood season (winter). The soil seed bank is an important propagule source for vegetation restoration. In order to evaluate the potential of the soil seed bank to revegetate the drawdown zone of this region, we examined the quantitative relationships between the germinable soil seed bank and the established vertical and horizontal vegetation patterns.A total of 45 soil samples at four sites was collected to examine seed bank density, species richness, and composition using the seedling-emergence method. Forty-five species (from 20 families) germinated from the soil seed bank, and the average seed density was 4578 m- .The seed bank was dominated by annual plants, suggesting reestablishment of some above-ground species was plausible.However, most established woody plants and perennials were absent from the seed bank indicating a low probability of reestablishment for non-annuals through the seed bank. Thus, due to low species compositional similarity to extant vegetation and the dominance of annual plants, the soil seed bank had a low potential to restore pre-dam vegetation in the drawdown zone of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region, but its potential as a propagule source should be considered regarding the management of the drawdown zone for vegetation cover.
23500357|The natural patterns of myrmecochory are disrupted by the dominance of red imported fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) in the southeastern United States. This leads to questions about the role of fire ants as seed dispersers. We examined the fate of ant-dispersed seed in the longleaf pine ecosystem. First, we determined removal rates for a suite of common ground cover species. Then, we verified the final location of removed seeds by using a wax cast to examine nest contents, and locating dyed seeds deposited in trash piles on the ground surface. Finally, we determined if the germination rate of seeds deposited by fire ants was affected by ant dispersion. Fire ants were most attracted to elaiosome-bearing seed and collected nonelaiosome-bearing seed at a much lower rate. No seeds were found in the contents of wax castings of fire ant nest chambers, suggesting that seed is not stored within the nest. Of the dyed seeds that we presented to fire ants, 3040 % were recollected in surface trash piles in the mound vicinity within 1 week following removal. Undiscovered seeds were considered destroyed or buried in foraging tunnels. A small percentage of the deposited seeds were able to germinate, but there was no difference in the percent germination between seeds manipulated by fire ants and the control. Low germination was likely due to a high percentage of immature seeds used in the study. Our findings support a growing body of evidence that fire ants facilitate the movement of seeds in the longleaf pine ecosystem.
20050424|Seedlings of Vicia faba L. (cv. Minica) were grown in a factorial experiment in a greenhouse. The purpose of the study was to determine whether CO enrichment and supplemental UV-B radiation affect leaf optical properties and whether the combined effects differ from single factor effects. Seedlings were grown at either 380 mol
20146536|The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of prolonged recreational disturbance on vegetation structure. Therefore, plant species variation along trails was determined in some common vegetation types of Flanders (Belgium). The study sites included two forest types, one grassland and one heathland. Inventory was conducted in transects perpendicular to trail centre. Field data on frequency, percent cover and multiple habitat variables were collected in the path, transition and undisturbed zones of the respective transects. In order to determine plant response groups in relation to recreational disturbances, distribution of plant species across paths was linked with their respective life form and plant strategy. Generally, species diversity increased towards the trail centre. The intensity of soil compaction was highly correlated with species cover and composition. Since soil compaction is interrelated with other aspects of the biotic and abiotic environment, it is clear that trampling exerts multiple stress on vegetation.
40606953|I present a model for the evolution of a seed bank in the absence of externally driven environmental variation. I use Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) analyses of both analytic and simulation models to assess the conditions under which a dormant genotype can invade and resist invasion. In my models, plant seeds compete through lottery for discrete safe sites holding one individual each. Analyzing the conditions under which a dormant genotype can invade when rare and resist invasion once established, I conclude that dormancy can be an ESS when some fraction of seeds is retained locally, seed bank survival is high, and mortality in the seed bank is low. The advantage of dormancy stems from the ability of dormant seeds to recapture a lost site and the fact that a plant's offspring are more likely to win the lottery in its own site than in any new site. The advantage of dormancy does not depend on individual fecundity or on low relatedness with the offspring of kin, making this mechanism distinct from earlier models of sib competition.
20050635|Suppression of Choricarpia leptopetala (F. Muell.) Domin., an early native coloniser of mesic forests, by Lantana camara L. was evaluated using field-based variable density and substitution experiments. Sites were located in disturbed areas within wet sclerophyll forest and warm temperate rainforest near Lake Macquarie on the Central Coast of NSW. In the variable density experiment, C. leptopetala growth was significantly suppressed by 36.4% from 3.3 to 2.1
40305431|Relatively few studies conducted in natural plants populations focus on the relationship between seed size and their germination ability and seedling establishment. Maianthemum bifolium is a perennial herb that spreads vegetatively through rhizomatous growth and reproduces through seeds. However, this species is characterized as seed and microsite limited, and under undisturbed conditions seedlings are not noted. The studies were conducted in two populations of M. bifolium in six subsequent seasons. The mean seed mass was negatively correlated both per ramet as well as in the fruit with the number of seeds, and positively with its height and the number of flowers. The long-term mean annual production of seeds in the populations was 37 and 56 seeds per m. The seeds from both populations had similarly high germination abilities that were approximately 90% under laboratory conditions, 60% in garden, and 55% in the natural habitat. Seeds from four size classes were sown and a positive correlation was noted between seedling establishment and the mass of the seeds from which they grew
20051168|Mangrove forests along many tropical coastlines are frequently and severely damaged by hurricanes. The ability of mangrove forests to regenerate following hurricanes has been noted, but changes that occur in vegetation following disturbance by hurricane winds and storm tides have not been studied. We measured changes in plant community structure and environmental variables in two fringe mangrove forests in south Florida, USA that experienced high wind velocities and storm tides associated with Hurricane Andrew (August 1992). Loss of the forest canopy stimulated regeneration via seedling growth and recruitment, as well as resprouting of some trees that survived the hurricane. Initial regeneration differed among species in both forests: Rhizophora mangle L. regenerated primarily via growth of seedlings present at the time of the hurricane (i.e., release of advance recruits), but many trees of Avicennia germinans (L.) Stearn and Laguncularia racemosa Gaertn.f. resprouted profusely from dormant epicormic buds. In one forest, which was formerly dominated by Laguncularia, high densities of Rhizophora seedlings survived the hurricane and grew to form dense stands of saplings and small trees of Rhizophora. In the other forest, there were lower densities of surviving Rhizophora seedlings (possibly due to higher storm tide), and extensive bare areas that were colonized by Avicennia, Laguncularia, and herbaceous species. This forest, predominantly Rhizophora at the time of the hurricane, now contains stands of saplings and small trees of all three species, interspersed with patches dominated by herbaceous plants. These findings indicate that moderately damaged fringe forests may regenerate primarily via release of Rhizophora advance recruits, leading to single-species stands. In severely damaged forests, seedling recruitment may be more important and lead to mixed-species stands. Regeneration of mangrove forests following hurricanes can involve different pathways produced by complex interactions between resprouting capability, seedling survival, post-hurricane seedling recruitment, and colonization by herbaceous vegetation. These differences in relative importance of regeneration pathways, which may result in post-hurricane forests different from their pre-hurricane structure, suggest that models for regeneration of mangrove forests will be more complex than "direct regeneration" models proposed for other tropical forests where regeneration after hurricanes is dominated by resprouting.
20050611|Do relationships between species and environmental gradients strengthen or weaken with tree life-stage (i.e., small seedlings, large seedlings, saplings, and mature trees)? Strengthened relationships may lead to distinct forest type boundaries, or weakening connections could lead to gradual ecotones and heterogeneous forest landscapes. We quantified the changes in forest dominance (basal area of tree species by life-stage) and environmental factors (elevation, slope, aspect, intercepted photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), summer soil moisture, and soil depth and texture) across 14 forest ecotones (n = 584, 10 m  10 m plots) in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, U.S.A. Local, ecotone-specific species-environment relationships, based on multiple regression techniques, generally strengthened from the small seedling state (multiple R ranged from 0.00 to 0.26) to the tree stage (multiple R ranged from 0.20 to 0.61). At the landscape scale, combined canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) among species and for all tree life-stages suggested that the seedlings of most species became established in lower-elevation, drier sites than where mature trees of the same species dominated. However, conflicting evidence showed that species-environment relationships may weaken with tree life-stage. Seedlings were only found in a subset of plots (habitats) occupied by mature trees of the same species. At the landscape scale, CCA results showed that species-environment relationships weakened somewhat from the small seedling stage (86.4% of the variance explained by the first two axes) to the tree stage (76.6% of variance explained). The basal area of tree species co-occurring with Pinus contorta Doug. ex. Loud declined more gradually than P. contorta basal area declined across ecotones, resulting in less-distinct forest type boundaries. We conclude that broad, gradual ecotones and heterogeneous forest landscapes are created and maintained by: (1) sporadic establishment of seedlings in sub-optimal habitats; (2) survivorship of saplings and mature trees in a wider range of environmental conditions than seedlings presently endure; and (3) the longevity of trees and persistence of tree species in a broad range of soils, climates, and disturbance regimes.
40305579|Predicting exotic invaders and reducing their impacts on the biodiversity and function of native ecosystems require understanding of the mechanisms that facilitate their success during key stages of invasion. We determined whether clonal growth, characteristic of the majority of successful invaders of natural areas, facilitates the proliferation of Bromus inermis (smooth brome), an exotic grass invading prairie ecosystems across the Great Plains. By manipulating the below-ground connections of proliferating rhizomes as well as the levels of soil nitrogen along the margins of clones invading northern fescue prairies in Manitoba, Canada, we hypothesized that physiological integration would most benefit ramets invading low resource environments. Severing clonal connections reduced the mass of smooth brome shoots invading native prairies and was exacerbated by the immobilization of soil nutrients with glucose. Clonal connections were equally important in the maintenance of smooth brome density and the horizontal proliferation of ramets. Our results demonstrate the role of physiological integration in the proliferation of a clonal exotic invader and may help explain the success of clonal invaders in other regions. Although integration among invading ramets suggests several possibilities for successful management, future research must continue to elucidate differences in the invasiveness of native versus exotic species as well as the persistence of clonal connections among exotic invaders.
23362529|Unplanned urban development threatens natural ecosystems. Assessing ecosystem recovery after anthropogenic disturbances and identifying plant species that may facilitate vegetation regeneration are critical for the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem services in urban areas. At the periphery of Mexico City, illegal human settlements produced different levels of disturbance on natural plant communities developed on a lava field near the Ajusco mountain range. We assessed natural regeneration of plant communities 20 years after the abandonment of the settlements, in sites that received low (manual harvesting of non-timber forest products), medium (removal of aboveground vegetation), and high (removal of substrate and whole vegetation) disturbance levels. We also tested the potential facilitative role played by dominant tree and shrub species. Plant diversity and vegetation biomass decreased as disturbance level increased. Sites with high disturbance level showed poor regeneration and the lowest species similarity compared to the least disturbed sites. Six dominant species (i.e., those with the highest abundance, frequency, and/or basal area) were common to all sites. Among them, three species (the tree Buddleja cordata, and two shrubs, Ageratina glabrata and Sedum oxypetalum) were identified as potential facilitators of community regeneration, because plant density and species richness were significantly higher under their canopies than at open sites. We propose that analyzing community structural traits of the successional vegetation (such as species diversity and biomass) and identifying potential facilitator species are useful steps in assessing the recovery ability of plant communities to anthropogenic disturbances, and in designing restoration strategies.
20146835|The nitrogen-fixing legume Lupinus lepidus is the most abundant herb on new volcanic surfaces at Mount St. Helen. We compared vegetation structure in 30 Lupinus colonies in three age classes (old, mature, or young based on known years of their establishment) to adjacent sites that were sparsely populated by Lupinus. Our goals were to determine if the age of colonies affected either species composition or vegetation structure and if colonies altered vegetation structure of a site. Species richness increased with site age and colonies had significantly greater richness. Mature colonies had lower cover and frequency of other species, while old colonies had significantly higher cover of other species, particularly mosses. Frequencies in colonies were higher than in adjacent sites. Diversity measures were highest in old colonies and least in mature ones. ANOVA showed that density effects of Lupinus were stronger than age effects on richness, cover, frequency, dominance, and diversity. The floristic similarity between colonies and adjacent sites declined with colony age, and sites without Lupinus became heterogeneous with age. Detrended correspondence analysis demonstrated floristic change as colonies aged and that the differences between colonies and sparse sites increased with age. Regressions of Lupinus frequency with measures of structure showed weak second order relationships that suggested that low densities of Lupinus inhibited other species, while higher densities promoted abundance and diversity. Together these results suggest that Lupinus is a key element that alters floristic successional trajectories and accelerates succession. However, its effects are complicated by the wide ranges of Lupinus density, the sequence of invasion, and by herbivores.
20146431|We simulated the self-thinning of Rhizophora mangle mangrove forests with the spatially explicit simulation model KiWi. This model is an application of the field-of-neighbourhood (FON) approach, which describes an individual tree by a competition function defined on the zone of influence (ZOI) around the stem. The FON causes growth depression of the trees involved. Sustained growth depression results in tree death. We propose a subdivision of the biomass density trajectories (bdt), obtained during the thinning process, into four segments related to characteristic shapes of the stem diameter distribution of the cohort. A positive skewness of the stem diameter distribution, indicating that the majority of the individuals are small and hindered in growth, is necessary for the occurrence of a linear segment within the dbt, the so-called 'self-thinning line'. This segment is the third bdt segment according to our classification. It is reached when the positive skewness of the stem diameter distribution is maximal and ends when the skewness reaches its second zero transition. The thinning line is therefore linked to the homogenisation process, which forces the symmetry of the stem distribution. We show that the ongoing search for a universal slope for the linear segment of the biomass-density trajectory (bdt) cannot succeed, since it is species-specific and may also be site-dependent. The slope increases with increasing competition strength of the individuals. Nevertheless, the lower limit of the slope is pre-defined by geometrical constraints and modified by the actual strength of the neighbourhood competition. Although the simulations were all carried out with growth parameters of the mangrove species Rhizophora mangle, our results should be qualitatively valid and form a plausible theoretical framework to account for different biomass-density trajectories.
20050499|A growth form classification for the plants of the Ecuadorian pramos is proposed, consisting of ten forms: stem rosettes, basal rosettes, tussocks, acaulescent rosettes, cushions and mats, upright shrubs, prostrate shrubs, erect herbs, prostrate herbs, and trailing herbs. The growth form composition of 192 samples of pramo vegetation from twelve different regions in Ecuador was analysed using multivariate techniques to determine physiognomic types. The distribution of growth forms was significantly related to altitude, rock cover, bare ground and to measures of disturbance and exposure. The dominant growth forms in all the samples belonged to one of Hedberg's (1964) five types, but other forms were also significant components of the vegetation. The majority of Ecuadorian pramo vegetation showed a relatively consistent growth form composition, dominated by tussocks. The accompanying growth forms were mostly acaulescent rosettes, cushions, upright shrubs, prostrate shrubs, erect herbs and prostrate herbs, sometimes with stem rosettes, basal rosettes or trailing herbs. At higher altitudes, the dominance of tussocks was reduced. At first, acaulescent rosettes became dominant, but higher still their dominance was shared with cushions. At the highest altitudes of all, where plant cover was thin, no single growth form was dominant. In other locations where plant cover was sparse, once again no single growth form was dominant. In humid pramos, stem rosettes were co-dominant with tussocks or erect herbs. Basal rosettes, erect herbs and prostrate herbs were locally co-dominant at higher altitudes. The growth form composition of the Ecuadorian pramos showed similarities with other tropical alpine regions, though no comparable quantitative data for these regions are available yet. The quantitative determination of growth form composition may also lead to a better understanding of community structure and the mechanisms which govern it.
24553729|The importance of ontogeny and the degree of abiotic stress in determining the interplay between facilitation and competition is well known. However, their joint effect on the outcome of plant interactions remains poorly understood, especially when a continuous gradient of abiotic stress is considered. Our objective was to evaluate the frequency of association of individuals of Clusia criuva with typical coastal dune species across a gradient of water stress and how this association affects the growth of juveniles and sub-adults. The study was performed in a coastal dune region in South Brazil, where the sandy soil promotes severe water stress. One-year growth of 293 individuals and their distance to the closest humid slacks were measured. This distance is a good surrogate for water stress, since slacks represent proximity to groundwater. The proportion of associated individuals increased with abiotic stress in both ontogenetic stages, but was always greater for juveniles. This suggests that association is progressively more important to guarantee survival as abiotic stress increases. Nonetheless, the benefit of neighbors to growth decreased with abiotic stress, and associated plants grew less than isolated ones in harsher environments. This was mainly true for juveniles, since the height growth of sub-adults was not affected by association or abiotic stress. In our study, facilitation became more intense with environmental severity, increasing survival, although competition also became more influent, reducing growth particularly for younger plants. This demonstrates that ontogenetic stage and abiotic stress must be considered simultaneously in order to better understand interactions among plants.
40305551|It has been suggested that the infrequent sexual reproduction of arctic dwarf shrubs might be related to the harsh environmental conditions in which they live. If this is the case, then increases in temperature resulting from global climate change might drastically affect regeneration of arctic species. We examined whether recruitment of Empetrum nigrum ssp. hermaphroditum and Vaccnium uligino- sum (hereafter E. nigrum and V. uliginosum) was affected by temperature during three reproductive stages: seed development, dormancy breakage and germination. Seeds were collected from an arctic, an alpine (only E. nigrum) and a boreal site with different climates; stored at different winter temperatures and incubated for germination at different temperatures. Seeds of V. uliginosum developed in the boreal region had a higher percentage germination than did seeds developed in the Arctic. In contrast, seeds of E. nigrum from the arctic site had a higher or similar percentage germination than did seeds from the alpine and boreal sites. Increased winter temperatures had no significant effect on resulting germination percentage of E. nigrum. However, V. uliginosum seeds from the arctic site suffered increased fungal attack (and thus decreased germination) when they were stratified under high winter temperatures. Seeds of both species increased germination with increased incubation temperatures. Our results suggest that both species would increase their germination in response to warmer summers. Longer summers might also favour the slowgerminating E. nigrum. However, increased winter temperatures might increase mortality due to fungal attack in V. uliginosum ecotypes that are not adapted to mild winters.
20051306|Populations of the ant Camponotus punctulatus undergo demographic explosions after agricultural activities, building conspicuous, vegetation-covered soil mounds. We investigated the effects of C. punctulatus on floristic composition and soil properties along a gradient of agricultural disturbance in Northeastern Argentina. We sampled vegetation and soil "on" and "off" anthills in, at least, three replicate plots of each of the following situations that represent an increasing gradient of soil disturbance: natural grasslands, sown pastures of Digitaria decumbens, sown pastures of Setaria sphacelata, and recently abandoned rice fields. Sets of characteristic plant species for each of the land use histories, for "on" and "off" anthills as well as for anthills of different sizes were identified through Indicator Species Analysis. 64% of the variation in plant community composition was mainly explained by land-use history which was associated to the first 2 axes of a Correspondence Analysis based on the frequency of 126 species across all sites. At the replicate scale, Correspondence Analyses revealed patterns of plant species composition related to the presence and size of anthills. Larger mounds became enriched in species, especially herb weeds, in comparison to smaller mounds or samples gathered outside the anthills. A Principal Component Analysis of soil data revealed that 71% of the variation in soil properties was explained by the presence of anthills. Soils from "on" anthills were more fertile than soils from "off" anthills, independent of land-use history. The fertility effect of C. punctulatus mounds in addition with the vegetation patterns observed along the gradient of anthill-sizes highlights the importance of these ants at the landscape and local scales.
20050724|A greenhouse study was conducted to determine the effects of sand burial on seed germination and seedling emergence of Cirsium pitcheri, a threatened species along Lake Huron sand dunes. In October 1996, seeds of C. pitcheri were sorted into three groups (small, medium and large) and artificially buried at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 cm depths in plastic pots filled with unsterilized sand from Lake Huron sand dunes. These pots were placed outside in sand boxes for natural stratification. In early February, the pots were brought into the greenhouse for germination of seeds. Data showed that percent seed germination and emergence of seedlings were not related to seed size. However, both variables were negatively correlated with depth. Seedling emergence occurred from a maximum depth of 6 cm with most seedlings emerging from 2 cm depth. Only one seedling emerged from 8 cm depth. Seedlings from large seeds produced longer roots than those of small seeds. Larger root system would probably enhance seedling establishment.
41508750|Recruitment limitation may limit the ability of sites to regenerate after disturbances such as weed invasion and weed management. We investigated seed bank constraints and dispersal limitation in coastal dune communities on the east coast of Australia. The ability of sites to regenerate naturally following weed removal was assessed in coastal dune communities invaded by the invasive alien, bitou bush (Chrysanthemoides monilifera subsp. rotundata). To investigate recruitment limitation, seed banks and vegetation of invaded, native, intensively managed (selective application of herbicide and some revegetation) and extensively managed (large-scale, non-selective herbicide application) sites were compared. We investigated the dispersal mechanisms of species in the seed bank and vegetation to determine if communities might be dispersal-limited, i.e. contain significant numbers of species with only shortdistance dispersal capabilities. Species richness and composition of soil seed banks differed from the vegetation in foredunes and hinddunes. Invasion depleted seed banks further. About half of the species had short-distance dispersal mechanisms indicating the potential for dispersal limitation. Secondary weed invasion following management was evident although alien species occurred in both seed banks and vegetation. Our results indicated that coastal dune communities suffer recruitment limitation. Native, managed and invaded dune communities appear to be both seed bank and dispersal-limited although management and invasion exacerbates recruitment. Regeneration of coastal dune communities will require active reintroduction of species, particularly those with short-distance dispersal mechanisms.
20050463|The size of a sampling unit has a critical effect on our perception of ecological phenomena; it influences the variance and correlation structure estimates of the data. Classical statistical theory works well to predict the changes in variance when there is no autocorrelation structure, but it is not applicable when the data are spatially autocorrelated. Geostatistical theory, on the other hand, uses analytical relationships to predict the variance and autocorrelation structure that would be observed if a survey was conducted using sampling units of a different size. to test the geostatistical predictions, we used information about individual tree locations in the tropical rain forest of the Pasoh Reserve, Malaysia. This allowed us to simulate and compare various sampling designs. The original data were reorganised into three artificial data sets, computing tree densities (number of trees per square meter in each quadrat) corresponding to three quadrat sizes (5  5, 10  10 and
20050625|The research was conducted in two natural forest communities: Potentillo albae-Quercetum ('oak forest') which allows much light to reach the forest floor and Tilio-Carpinetum typicum ('hornbeam forest') which shades the herb layer heavily. The seed banks were estimated from numbers of seedlings emerging from soil samples over one growing season. (1) Our results confirm the hypothesis that persistent seed banks are mainly formed by species with high light requirements. Of the species found predominantly in the seed bank and absent from the herb layer or occurring there very rarely in both communities 83% of species and 70% of seedlings were strongly light-demanding (Ellenberg's light index 6-9). However, the results do not support the hypothesis that seed banks in natural deciduous forest communities are small, poor in species and do not reflect the species composition of herb layer. (2) The seed banks of both communities were rich in species and relatively large. Species richness in the oak forest turned out to be higher than in the hornbeam forest (51 vs 45 species/2.4 m), but size was smaller (2659 vs 5789 seedlings/2.4 m). In the oak forest the most abundant species in the seed bank was Galium boreale, but it constituted only 19% of the total number of seedlings, whereas in the hornbearn forest the dominant species, Urtica dioica, constituted 57% of the total. (3) In each community the species composition of the seed bank and the herb layer was very similar (&gt70%). (4) The seed bank was more diverse in the oak forest than in the hornbeam forest (H 2.34 vs 1.68). (5) The seed banks of both communities differed in the contribution of species with varied light requirements; in the sunny oak forest species with high light requirements dominated, whereas in the shady hornbeam forest both strongly and moderately light-demanding species had similar contributions.
20146849| Evidence continues to accumulate that humans are significantly increasing atmospheric CO concentrations, resulting in unprecedented changes in the global climate system. Experimental manipulations of terrestrial ecosystems and their components have greatly increased our understanding of short-term responses to these global perturbations and have provided valuable input to ecosystem, dynamic vegetation, and global scale models. However, concerns exist that these initial experimental responses may be transitory, thereby limiting our ability to extrapolate short-term experimental responses to infer longerterm effects. To do these extrapolations, it will be necessary to understand changes in response patterns over time, including alterations in the magnitude, direction, and rate of change of the responses. These issues represent one of our largest challenges in accurately predicting longer-term changes in ecosystems and associated feedbacks to the climate system. Key issues that need to be considered when designing future experiments or refining models include: linear vs. non-linear responses, direct vs. indirect effects, lags in response, acclimation, resource limitation, homeostasis, buffers, thresholds, ecosystem stoichiometry, turnover rates and times, and alterations in species composition. Although experimental and landscape evidence for these response patterns exist, extrapolating longer-term response patterns from short-term experiments will ultimately require a unified multidisciplinary approach, including better communication and collaboration between theoreticists, experimentalists and modelers. 
40305464|The prevalence of patchy structures in vegetation is a common feature in semi-arid ecosystems. Although the effect of patches on seed density is widely known, we still lack information on how patch features affect seed bank density and composition. Our aim was to answer two basic questions: (1) How do seed bank density and composition vary within and outside patch aboveground physical limits? and (2) Do patch characteristics affect soil seed bank density and composition? We sampled 50 shrub patches in a semi-arid gypsum system in Central Spain, measuring patch size, composition and structure, and seed bank at three locations per shrub (centre, edge and outside). We calculated the effect of interior patch location, patch composition and structure on seed density and composition. Patches acted both as seed sources, increasing seed density in neighbouring areas and as seed sinks by trapping seeds from bare areas. Patch structure (erect perennial cover) had the greatest effect on seed bank density, whereas patch size and microslope had the greatest influence on bare area density. Patch structure, composition and interior location explained the variation in seed bank composition. Patch effect extends to the surrounding bare matrix creating a seed bank gradient in density and composition. This effect is modulated by patch structure and composition and affects seed bank composition. Our results suggest that the spatial structure of gypsum community seed banks may act as a mechanism for a spatial storage effect contributing to the maintenance of high levels of diversity in semi-arid environments
24553704|Seed reserves play an essential role during germination and seedling establishment and are particularly important for species that grow in seasonal ecosystems with a short growing season. In this study, we examined (a) how and when the seedlings change their dependence from seed resources to external resources, (b) the lipid, nitrogen, and non-structural carbohydrate reserve translocation from seeds to seedlings over time, and (c) whether reserve translocation may be correlated to cotyledon and leaf lifespan of seedlings for eight tree species in a tropical deciduous forest in north-western Mexico. Our results showed that the cotyledon lifespan was not related to the cotyledon type (photosynthetic or reserve) and that the cotyledon biomass did not decrease significantly until germination. In six of the eight studied species, biomass allocation to the leaves was favored; lipids were the first reserve exhausted before the first leaves were totally expanded in seven of the eight study species. Species with the highest N concentration had expanded leaves and lost their cotyledons faster than species with a low N concentration. Our results suggest that tropical deciduous forest species employ different strategies to survive the dry season and resprout in the next growing season mediated by seed reserve concentrations, translocation patterns and subsequent biomass allocation.
20050490|Examining the relation between the dispersal of seeds across landscapes and the migration of species can inform studies of processes such as invasions and response to climatic change. In this research a spatially explicit model is used to analyze the effects of dispersal probability, limits on establishment, generation time, seed crop probability, and varying proportions and patterns of landscape fragmentation on migration rate. Comparisons are made with rates inferred for migrations based on isopols of species range changes in the Holocene (20-200 km/century). The effects of the parameters on migration rate in the model are additive. Dispersal probability, related to diaspore type, is the most influential factor. Limits on establishment show effects only if severe. Lower seed crop probabilities can slow migration slightly. Generation times of 10 to 40 yr reduce migration rate moderately, while generations set long enough to reflect population doubling times would slow migration greatly. Extensive fine-scale fragmentation slows migration more than a single large barrier, but not greatly; multiple large barriers have greater effects. The factors have their greatest absolute and relative effects at higher dispersal probabilities; this result indicates that combinations of low dispersal probability and slow population development could increase the differences in migration rate among species while fragmentation could reduce these differences.
20051212|Seasonal variation in leaf nitrogen of mature green and senescent leaves and nitrogen resorption efficiency in three plants (Spartina maritima, Halimione portulacoides and Arthrocnemum perenne) of a Tagus estuary salt marsh are reported. Total nitrogen concentrations in green and senescent leaves were higher during winter (December and March). Soil inorganic nitrogen availability showed an opposite pattern with higher concentrations during summer (June and September) when total leaf biomass was higher. Nitrogen resorption efficiency ranged between 31 and 76% and H. portulacoides was the plant that better minimized nitrogen loss by this process. Nitrogen resorption occurred mainly from the soluble protein pool, although other fractions must have been broken down during the resorption process. No significant seasonal variation in nitrogen resorption efficiency and no relation to leaf total nitrogen or soil nitrogen availability were found. This suggests that the efficiency of the resorption process is not determined by the plant nitrogen status nor by the availability of the nutrient in the soil. Nevertheless, resorption from senescing leaves may play an important role in the nitrogen dynamics of salt marsh plants and reduce the nitrogen requirements for plant growth.
20146982|Dead and downed ocotillos (Fouquieria splendens) are common in the Colorado Desert of southern California and pose a question concerning the life-span of adult plants that have been reported to be long-lived: if ocotillo is long-lived, decay rates must be very slow. Our study focused on decomposition and disintegration of above-ground ocotillo wood over 14 years to obtain a rate of change in dead mass. Disintegration rate was used in a new application of life-cycle graph analysis to calculate persistence time of carcasses, which in turn was used to estimate adult survival rates. We conclude that previous estimates of life spans may be too conservative and half-life of adult shrubs is over 200 years. Our approach to estimating adult survival from decay rates provides an independent test of survival transitions based on live plants for some species and so is an additional tool for developing life cycle models.
20050942|The richness and coexistence of pteridophyte species were studied at the mesoscale level in the NE Iberian Peninsula (Catalonia and Andorra) using a grid system with 10  10 km cell-size. The number of pteridophytes, the number of monolete and trilete ferns (two spore patterns), and the number of polyploid and diploid ferns were studied in 371 of such units. The results suggest: (a) a significant relationship of pteridophyte species richness with higher-taxon richness (genera, family, order, class); (b) a significant relationship between pteridophyte richness and maximum altitude (positively related), bedrock type (higher richness in siliceous types), and distance to the coast (interacting with altitude); (c) a significant positive relationship of monolete/trilete ratio with altitude (in the study area) and with latitude (at the European scale); (d) a significantly higher polyploid/diploid ratio for monolete ferns than for trilete ferns, and a significant relation of this ratio with altitude. We conclude that at the scale studied, the distribution of pteridophyte richness is mainly related to terrain and climate parameters and that the monolete/trilete pattern may be explained by the higher polyploidy rate and better migration capacity in monolete species.
20146767|Grasslands and their grazers provide some of the most compelling examples for studying the relationship between diversity, productivity, and disturbance. In this study, we analyzed the impact of grazing-induced changes in species composition and community structure upon the productivity of a grassland in the Campos region, Uruguay. We compared three treatments: a continuously grazed area, a 9-year old exclosure to domestic herbivores, and grazing-simulated plots inside the exclosure, which were clipped so that their standing biomass resembled that of the grazed area. We studied the community composition of the grazed and ungrazed situations, and determined biomass and above-ground net primary production (ANPP) of the three treatments during 1 year. Grazed plots had higher species richness and diversity than the exclosure. Grazing resulted in the replacement of some cool-season, tussock grasses by warm-season, prostrate grasses. ANPP was 51% higher under grazing than in the exclosure, but the grazing-simulated plots inside the exclosure were the most productive treatment, 29% higher than the grazed plots. Thus, two components of grazing effect may be postulated for this grassland. The structural component resulted in higher ANPP, probably due to the elimination of standing dead biomass. The species composition component resulted in lower ANPP once the structural component was controlled, probably due to the shift to warm-season phenology and prostrate habit. Our findings contrast with a similar experiment carried out in the neighbouring Flooding Pampa region, which suggests that the relationship between grazing and community structure and function is difficult to generalize.
20146795|In grassland communities vascular plants and bryophytes form two distinct layers. In order to understand the factors responsible for plant community structure, more information about interactions between these plant groups is needed. Often negative correlations between vascular plant and bryophyte covers have been reported, suggesting competition. Here we tested experimentally whether different grassland vascular plant species (Trifolium pratense, Festuca pratensis, Prunella vulgaris) had different influences on the cover of two bryophyte species (Rhytidiadelphus squarrosus, Brachythecium rutabulum). In a two-year garden pot experiment one bryophyte species and one vascular plant species were planted per pot. Bryophytes were planted at a constant density, vascular plants in four densities. The cover of both bryophyte species increased with increasing vascular plant cover, showing the facilitative effect of vascular plants through creating better microclimate, e.g., optimising temperature. Bryophyte responses to vascular plant species were species-specific. Festuca had significantly positive effects on both bryophyte species in the second year, and Trifolium on Brachythecium in both years, whereas Prunella had no significant effect on bryophytes. The facilitative effect of vascular plants was stronger at the second experimental year. In summary, the biotic effects between bryophytes and grassland vascular plants are species-specific and positive interactions are prevailing at low vascular plant densities.
40305562|Here we investigate the long-cited pattern that throughout the eastern United States, Solidago species (goldenrods), and in particular S. canadensis displace Aster species and dominate old-field communities. Theory predicts that such a ubiquitous pattern of repeated dominance should be linked to competitive ability for a limiting resource. However, no one has investigated this possibility in old-fields, representing a potentially significant gap in our understanding of a common human-altered environment. We tested the hypothesis that S. canadensis is the superior competitor for light compared to other common co-occurring goldenrod species, and that the goldenrods in general are the superior competitors for light compared to coexisting aster species, which are typically less abundant. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the light attenuation abilities of four goldenrod species, S. canadensis, S. rugosa, S. gigantea, and Euthamia graminifolia, and three aster species, Aster novae-angliae, A. pilosus, and A. prenanthoides. Consistent with our hypothesis, S. canadensis had a greater ability to attenuate light than any of the other goldenrods at higher densities, and the goldenrods overall had a greater ability to attenuate light than the asters. By conducting a census in our study area, we verified that S. canadensis is locally the most abundant goldenrod and that goldenrods are more locally abundant than asters. Furthermore, by conducting a literature survey we found evidence that S. canadensis replaces A. pilosus through time. Thus we found a close correspondence between relative abundance in the field and light attenuation ability in field experiments. These results are consistent with theory predicting that competition for limiting resources, in this case light, explains patterns of dominance and relative abundance in oldfield plant communities.
20146976|This study examines the effect of fire on the germination of Pinus pinaster seeds from a population with special adaptations to this type of disturbance, due to the high frequency of fires to which they have been subjected. The action of fire was simulated in the laboratory using thermal shocks. Temperatures of 60, 90, 120, 200 and 300 C were used for exposure times of 1 and 5 min. The viability of seeds of this species from the soil seed bank of a population subjected to a wildfire was also evaluated. The results show that germination is not increase by a thermal treatment. The effect is negative at temperatures above 90 C and exposure times of 1 min with a significant decrease in, or even no, germination. Therefore the seeds cannot stand high temperatures and reproductive effort is placed on serotinous cone development and the production of high numbers of seeds. The high viability of the seeds from the area burned by wildfire, immediately after the fire and 1 year later, show the high potential of the soil seed bank to contribute to the regeneration of the burned area.
20146433|Retama sphaerocarpa is a leguminous shrub whose important role in the semi-arid regions of south-eastern Spain has already been assessed: shrub canopies reduce light intensity, and thus evapotranspiration; also their extensive radical system take water and nutrients from great volumes of soil, concentrating them in the understorey. Consequently, subcanopy vegetation benefits from these facilitation processes, increasing its productivity. However, these shrublands have been rarely studied at a broader scale, i.e. as a savannah-like system composed of a variable number of shrubs scattered in a herbaceous matrix. As the microenvironmental conditions associated to the understorey are rather different from those of the open spaces among shrubs, species composition of the herbaceous matrix is expected to change accordingly. Thus, R. sphaerocarpa would be an important and still unknown source of spatial heterogeneity to the system. Our main purpose was to evaluate, through the soil seed bank, the heterogeneity in the herbaceous community induced by this shrub species. Soil samples were collected around adult shrubs from three positions relative to the canopy: near the centre of the shrubs, at the edge of the understorey, and completely outside the canopy. Floristic composition was evaluated by germination under greenhouse conditions. The results show that each position has a different floristic composition, characterised by a group of different species. The herbaceous species associated with the external position have functional traits which enable them to resist water stress and herbivore pressure, such as hairs, CAM metabolism, early flowering, horizontal growth or tiny stature. The species associated with the central position lack those traits, and are more competitive in more mesic environments, rich in nitrogen. The lowest number of seedlings and species was found in the internal position, suggesting that in our study the facilitation process may have less importance for community dynamics due to less stressful environmental conditions.
20146621|Understanding the population processes is central when assessing proper conservation acts, especially in the case of species which inhabit temporal and patchy substrates, such as decaying wood. In epixylic bryophytes, however, only little is known of the demographic population structure and within-population dynamics. In this study on a leafy epixylic hepatic, Anastrophyllum hellerianum (Nees ex Lindenb.) R. M. Schust., a set of demographic traits is investigated, including colony area and size, proportions of the sterile, gemmiparous or sexual developmental stages, the shoot size class distribution among the developmental stages, and numbers of asexual propagules present on the shoots. The estimates of mortality are assessed on the basis of the proportions of dead shoots found in the colonies. The size distribution within the developmental stages of this species shows that a certain threshold size is required for both asexual and sexual reproduction. The shoot size is negatively correlated with density, whereas the numbers of asexual gemmae and the proportions of developmental stages are not affected by shoot density. Furthermore, provisional estimates are calculated for the transitions from early developmental stages to reproductively mature stages. The results indicate that the initial phases of the gametophyte development are the most vulnerable.
20146696|To determine the influence of the proximity of a forest edge on seed bank composition and diversity, we performed a seed bank sampling at ancient deciduous forests bordering intensive arable fields. Also vegetation patterns were taken into account. We hypothised that forest edges may facilitate the entrance of diaspores of invasive species into the forest and the successive incorporation of these species in the forest seed bank. We noticed a substantial influence of the proximity of an edge on seed bank composition at as well the forested side of the edge as the field side. The forest edge zone was limited to 3 m into the forest and the field edge zone extended 3 m into the field. The seed bank samples of field and forest edge are characterised by a higher species diversity and seed density and a higher similarity between seed bank and vegetation, compared to field or forest samples. The forest edges contains fewer pioneer species in comparison with the forest interior and more competitive species and species of edges and clearings compared with field and forest samples. The seed longevity index increases towards the forest interior. We can conclude from our data that the forest and edge seed bank are composed by both seeds from recent dispersal processes and local seed set and by seeds originating from past vegetation on the site. Near the edge, actual seed input seems of primal importance. Further towards the forest interior seed input decreases and long-living seeds of past vegetation become more important. Ancient forest edges thus act as a barrier for seeds of species of the surrounding arable field.
20050568|On the volcanically devastated Pumice Plain of Mount St. Helens, plant species colonized microsites differentially. Peak colonization did not occur in the same microsites as peak establishment and growth. In addition, observed microsite colonization patterns differed between years. Two studies were conducted. The first assessed seedling establishment and growth from seeds sown at different microsites. The second assessed colonization into four microsite types that were constructed on the Pumice Plain. Hypochaeris radicata was the most common species to survive when the same number of seeds of four species were planted; however, Anaphalis margaritacea was the most common colonizer of microsites. Microsites with the largest biomass plants in the first study generally had the highest colonization in the second study. Sites that do not possess features to trap seeds, such as flats and ridges, are not opportune places for a plant to grow since there is little microclimatic or substrate amelioration. Thus, flat microsites had low biomass in the establishment experiment due to the lack of amelioration and contained few plants in the colonization experiment due to a lack of seed trapping mechanisms. These results show that in the primary successional landscape of Mount St. Helens microsites are critical to revegetation dynamics. Changes in the pattern of microsite colonization between years emphasizes the dynamic nature of the landscape and the important influences of climate, substrate amelioration and seed rain to plant establishment.
20050422|UV-B radiation is just one of the environmental factors, that affect plant growth. It is now widely accepted that realistic assessment of plant responses to enhanced UV-B should be performed at sufficiently high Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR), preferably under field conditions. This will often imply, that responses of plants to enhanced UV-B in the field will be assessed under simultaneous water shortage, nutrient deficiency and variation of temperature. Since atmospheric CO enrichment, global warming and increasing UV-B radiation represent components of global climatic change, interactions of UV-B with CO enrichment and temperature are particularly relevant. Only few relevant UV-B CO interaction studies have been published. Most of these studies refer to greenhouse experiments. We report a significant CO  UV-B interaction for the total plant dry weight and root dry weight of the C-grass Elymus athericus. At elevated CO (720 mol
20146682|The effects of patches formed by a deciduous shrub (Salix reinii) and an evergreen shrub (Gaultheria miqueliana) on cohabitants were examined on an active volcano Mt. Koma, northern Japan, using bareground as a comparative baseline (control). Species richness increased with increasing the areas of three habitats (Salix patches, Gaultheria patches and bareground), but significantly slowed in Gaultheria patches where the shoot densities of cohabitants also decreased. Calamagrostis hakonensis and Spiranthes sinensis were 2-3 times more likely to establish in Salix patches than in bareground, Anaphalis margaritacea var. angustior and Campanula lasiocarpa were 4-5 times more likely to establish on bareground than in Salix patches. Cohabitants was fewer with Gaultheria. Light intensities of the two patch types were ca 1/3 of that on bareground. Light intensity on Gaultheria was ca 88% of that on Salix patch and decreased with increasing patch size, because the differences in stem and leaf architectures and phenology between the two patch-forming species. Moisture and total nitrogen in volcanic deposits were 2-3 times higher in the patches than in bareground. In the patches, low light intensity restricted seed germination, in particular, for the plants characteristic of bareground, e.g., Anaphalis, while high soil moisture increased the survival rates of Calamagrostis. In Gaultheria patches, despite high moisture, the reduced light intensity influenced seed germination and inhibited the establishment of most species. Seedbanks estimated by a lab-experiment indicated that Salix patches trapped more seeds. As a consequence, Salix patches act as facilitator, in particular, for Calamagrostis, by improving moisture and nutrients status of volcanic deposits, moderating light intensity and seed trapping. Deciduous shrub patches, such as Salix reinii, have an improving role in accelerating rates of succession in harsh environments, while evergreen shrub patches slow plant establishment.
23267460|Successful colonization and/or invasion depend on characteristics of the invaded community and of the colonizer itself. Although many studies have documented a negative relationship between invasibility and biodiversity, the importance of community evenness is rarely examined and thus poorly understood. However, colonizer characteristics, including population genetic diversity, can also be important determinants of colonization success. We conducted a greenhouse experiment to assess the relative importance of community evenness and colonizer population genetic diversity using the weed Arabidopsis thaliana. We added seeds of A. thaliana (varying genetic diversity while keeping propagule pressure constant) to four types of constructed plant communities: those dominated by legumes, grasses or forbs, or with equal abundances of all three functional groups. We selected community members from a large pool of species to avoid the confounding effects of species identity. We also assessed the success of multiple seedbank colonizers to assess generality in the effects of our evenness treatments. Equal-abundance communities were no better at suppressing colonization than communities dominated by a single functional group. Forb-dominated communities suppressed A. thaliana colonization better than grass-dominated communities and suppressed seedbank colonizers better than legume-dominated communities. Equal-abundance communities were similar to forb-dominated ones in their eventual composition and in their invasibility, suggesting that forbs drove colonizer suppression in that treatment rather than high evenness itself. Most of our forbs grew quickly, yielding productive forb-dominated communities; this points to the importance of growth and colonization phenology in our system. A. thaliana genetic diversity did not affect colonization success, perhaps because strong interspecific competition substantially limited A. thaliana seedling emergence.
20146573|Pinus brutia Ten. is a characteristic species of the eastern Mediterranean. P. brutia and P. halepensis Mill. are distinct species; but P. eldarica, P. stankewiczii and P. pityusa are subspecies of P. brutia. Fire is the major disturbance in P. brutia forests, and several adaptations generally contribute to post-fire regeneration of P. brutia; however, P. brutia can also naturally regenerate without fire. Flowering occurs between March and May. Seed distribution occurs throughout the year, with maximum dispersal in August and the great majority of seeds dispersing within the period July-December.P. brutia retains some closed cones and so establishes a natural canopy seed bank. Seed germination occurs in the rainy season with two frequency peaks: the major one in spring and a minor one in autumn. P. brutia seedlings develop rapidly-growing tap roots. Shelterwood, clearcutting and strip clearcut methods can successfully be applied to P. brutia forests, depending on local conditions. Density of P. brutia seedlings was greater and seedlings were more vigorous when the natural regeneration methods were combined with prescribed fire. Clearcutting methods combined with laying cone bearing branches on the surface of the soil and additional seeding increases regeneration success. Ground litter of 2-4 cm creates a medium that reduces evapotranspiration, delays growth of competing vegetation, and increases seedling survival. Successful regeneration must be established by the end of first vegetation period.
20050428|The effects of enhanced UV-B radiation on three examples of European shrub-dominated vegetation were studied in situ. The experiments were in High Arctic Greenland, northern Sweden and Greece, and at all sites investigated the interaction of enhanced UV-B radiation (simulating a 15% reduction in the ozone layer) with artificially increased precipitation. The Swedish experiment also involved a study of the interaction between enhanced UV-B radiation and elevated CO (600 ppm). These field studies were supported by an outdoor controlled environment study in the United Kingdom involving modulated enhancement of UV-B radiation in combination with elevated CO (700 ppm). Effects of the treatments on plant growth, morphology, phenology and physiology were measured. The effects observed were species specific, and included both positive and negative responses to the treatments. In general the negative responses to UV-B treatments of up to three growing seasons were small, but included reductions in shoot growth and premature leaf senescence. Positive responses included a marked increase in flowering in some species and a stimulation of some photosynthetic processes. UV-B treatment enhanced the drought tolerance of Pinus pinea and Pinus halepensis by increasing leaf cuticle thickness. In general, there were few interactions between the elevated CO and enhanced UV-B treatments. There was evidence to suggest that although the negative responses to the treatments were small, damage may be increasing with time in some long-lived woody perennials. There was also evidence in the third year of treatments for effects of UV-B on insect herbivory in Vaccinium species. The experiments point to the necessity for long-term field investigations to predict the likely ecological consequences of increasing UV-B radiation.
20146853|Recent global climate models predict a further significant loss of ozone in the next decades, with up to 50% depletion of the ozone layer over large parts of the Arctic resulting in an increase in ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) (280-315 nm) reaching the surface of the Earth. The percentage of total annual ecosystem N input due to biological nitrogen fixation by cyanobacteria might be as high as 80% and the contribution to total annual N uptake by plants up to 20%. A possible reduction of nitrogen fixation raises serious concerns about already nutrient impoverished plant communities. This review shows that nitrogen fixation by moss-associated cyanobacteria in arctic vegetation was dramatically reduced after six years of exposure to enhanced UV-B radiation. In subarctic vegetation, nitrogen fixation activity of moss-associated cyanobacteria was not affected by 6 years of enhanced UV-B radiation. However, a 50% increase of summer precipitation resulted in a 5- to 6-fold increase in activity. Long-term effects of UV-B radiation on nitrogen fixation activity have been examined only in two lichens, giving contrasting results. Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd., having external cephalodia, experienced a significant reduction, whereas Peltigera didactyla (With.) J. R. Laudon, having cyanobacteria in the photobiont layer below the upper cortex, did not experience any changes due to radiation regimes. The difference is probably related to the location of the cyanobacteria. While the Nostoc cells are protected by the fungal, melanized upper cortex in P. didactyla, they are exposed and unprotected in P. aphthosa, and their own synthesis of UV-B absorbing compounds appears to be low. Under certain environmental conditions, an increasing UV-B radiation will dramatically affect nitrogen fixation in arctic tundra vegetation, which in turn may have severe influence on the nitrogen budget in these environments. Further long-term studies are necessary to conclude if these effects are temporal and how concurrent climatic changes will influence the nitrogen balance of the ecosystem.
40305609|Habitat fragmentation poses a major threat to the viability of plant populations. However, the intensity of fragmentation effects may vary among years. We studied two possible effects of habitat fragmentation (patch size and isolation) on the reproduction and proportion of damaged fruits in 24 patches of the self-compatible shrub Colutea hispanica for three consecutive years with different climate conditions. We also studied the effect of fragmentation on the incidence of two main pre-dispersal seed predators, the butterflies lolana Mas and Lampides boeticus. High between-year variability was found in number of viable seeds per fruit, number of fruits per plant, total number of viable seeds per plant and proportion of damaged fruits. In 2003, small, isolated patches had a higher fruit set and number of fruits per plant. The proportion of damaged fruits was significantly lower in isolated populations in 2003, while it was very high in all patches in 2004 and 2005. High between-year variability was also found in the proportion of fruits per plant with I. iolas eggs. In 2003 isolated patches had a lower proportion of fruits with I. iolas eggs, but no significant effect of patch size and isolation was found in 2004 or 2005. The proportion of fruits with L. boeticus eggs was similar in the three years of study, although it was slightly higher in large, non-isolated patches in 2003. Thus, the effects of fragmentation on plant reproduction cannot be generalized from one single-year survey. In contrast to the generally accepted idea that fragmentation reduces plant reproduction, plant fitness may increase in isolated patches in years with high fruit production and low seed predation.
20050877|Narrow-leaved plantain (Plantago lanceolata L.), a perennial forb, flowers for virtually the full length of the growing season in temperate latitudes and as a result it is exposed to widely variable intensities of shortwave (UV-B) radiation. In order to determine effects of spring and summer levels of UV-B exposure on growth and development, representatives of 42 maternal families were grown for 85 days at 3.2 and 6.4
40540331|When elevational gradients include combinations of different climatic gradients, such as a decline in temperature combined with an increase in moisture, vegetation and plant trait responses are difficult to explain. Here, we used plant species richness and morphometric traits data across steep elevational gradients in the Helan Range of Northwestern China in an attempt to separate general trends (temperature related) from regional peculiarity (moisture related). Based on the floristic data of the Helan Range as well as plot-based data, both drought (at low elevation) and low temperature (high elevation) are associated with low species richness presumably also explaining the peak in diversity at mid-elevation, where climatic conditions are moderate. However, this mid-elevation peak in diversity is not mirrored in trends of plant traits such as leaf size and inflorescence size, which show either unidirectional trends or no change with elevation (with impacts of drought and low temperature perhaps gradually replacing each other). Our analysis illustrated the taxonomic and plant functional type (PFT)-related biases in functional trait studies and showed that consistent patterns only emerge after careful data stratification, with taxonomy (family level) holding more promises than PFTs. Inflorescence size increased with elevation in major insect-pollinated families, a trend not seen in wind-pollinated (graminoid) families. However, the reproductive effort expressed as inflorescence/leaf length ratio increases with elevation in the majority of plant families, irrespective of their pollination system. The fact that these biometrie responses to elevation do not correlate with responses in species richness (which peaks at mid-elevation) may reflect contrasting drivers of trait selection and biodiversity. Based on our plot-based data, this analysis also confirmed the usefulness of floristic archive data for testing ecological theory related to elevational gradients.
20050659|Grasses are becoming more abundant in areas in NE Scotland which until recently were dominated by heather (Calluna vulgaris). However, it is not clear if grasses are aggressive competitors which are now able to outcompete the dwarf shrub due to changes in environmental factors (such as grazing pressure and increasing nutrient inputs), or just opportunistic invaders, occupying gaps in the canopy which occur when heather reaches the degenerate stage. Experiments in turves and in field plots were carried out in order to investigate the performance of three grass species, Nardus stricta, Deschampsia cespitosa and Deschampsia flexuosa growing in competition with heather. These three species were selected because they differ in their nutrient requirements, palatability to herbivores and tolerance of shading. The grasses were planted in heather canopies of different structure, either turves of heather of different height and age, or moorland plots with or without heavy grazing by sheep and deer. Fertiliser (NPK) was applied to half the experimental plants. The growth of the grass species and the heather in response to the fertiliser and grazing treatments was measured, together with the light levels penetrating the canopy and received by the grass plants. Results indicated that heather was likely to be outcompeted by grasses only when there are gaps in the canopy, resulting either from heavy grazing or from the heather being in the mature or degenerate phase. Fertiliser enhanced plant growth whereas fencing out herbivores led to strong competition for light as the heather canopy closed. It is concluded that grasses require gaps in the canopy to successfully invade heather moorland, or they tend to be shaded out. Thus better management of heather moorlands to maintain a dense canopy structure may help to preserve heather cover even under increasing nutrient inputs.
23500341|The introduction of carnivorous mammals has led many native island species to extinction. In the Balearic Islands, the introduction of carnivorous mammals in the main islands has contributed to the extinction of the endemic lizard Podarcis lilfordi, which is an important seed disperser of many plant species. One of the introduced mammals, Martes martes (pine marten), is also known to disperse seeds and may replace the native lizard in this role in islands. However, little is known on the patterns of seed dispersal by these two different species and their possible implications for plant regeneration ability and population structure. We have compared the quality of seed deposition provided by both to the vulnerable Mediterranean shrub Cneorum tricoccon, by studying the pattern of seed distribution among sites generated by both dispersers as well as the suitability of those sites for seedling emergence and establishment. The study was carried out in two types of habitats (coastal shrublands and pine forests) and two islands (Mallorca and Dragonera). Lizards and mammals showed contrasting patterns of seed deposition and, where lizards were absent, mammals played their role as seed dispersers in pine forests but not in coastal shrublands. The lack of seed dispersal in the coastal shrubland seriously limits recruitment, by concentrating seeds under conspecifics and hindering colonisation opportunities, marking a long-term trend towards decline. The introduced predator replaces the native seed disperser in its service where it has gone extinct, although with important differences in the dispersal service provided.
20051132|Predictive modeling of vegetation patterns has wide application in vegetation science. In this paper I discuss three methods of predictive modeling using data from the alpine treeline ecotone as a case study. The study area is a portion of Glacier National Park, Montana. Parametric general linear models (GLM), artificial neural networks (ANN) and classification tree (CT) methods of predicting vegetation type are compared to determine the relative strength of each predictive approach and how they may be used in concert to increase understanding of important vegetation -- environment relations. For each predictive method, vegetation type within the alpine treeline ecotone is predicted using a suite of environmental indicator variables including elevation, moisture potential, solar radiation potential, snow potential index, and disturbance history. Results from each of the predictive methods are compared against the real vegetation types to determine the relative accuracy of the methods. When the entire data field is examined (i.e., not evaluated by smaller spatial aggregates of data) the ANN procedure produces the most accurate predictions ( = 0.571); the CT predictions are the least accurate ( = 0.351). The predicted patterns of vegetation on the landscape are considerably different using the three methods. The GLM and CT methods produce large contiguous swaths of vegetation types throughout the study area, whereas the ANN method produces patterns with much more heterogeneity and smaller patches. When predictions are compared to reality at catchment scale, it becomes evident that the accuracy of each method varies depending upon the specific situation. The ANN procedure remains the most accurate method in the majority of the catchments, but both the GLM and PCT produce the most accurate classifications in at least one basin each. The variability in predictive ability of the three methods tested here indicates that there may not be a single best predictive method. Rather it may be important to use a suite of predictive models to help understand the environment -- vegetation relationships. The ability to use multiple predictive methods to determine which spatial subunits of a landscape are outliers is important when identifying locations useful for climate change monitoring studies.
41508791|The pine rocklands of southern Florida are a fire-dependent forest associated with outcroppings of limestone. Pine rockland plants have several adaptations to fire, and for many species burns increase plant growth, flowering, and seedling establishment. The pine rockland forest has been reduced and fragmented in recent decades. Outside of Everglades National Park, only two percent of the original pine rocklands remain, and are in the form of small fragments. Habitat fragmentation may have a negative effect on the biology of plants; we investigated the effects of both fire and fragmentation on Angadenia berteroi (A.DC.) Miers, a threatened species of the southern Florida pine rockland. We estimated the density and flowering of A. berteroi using adaptive cluster sampling in six study sites with different fire and disturbance histories. A. berteroi is more abundant in the largest fragments, and those having experienced fire most recently. However, fragmentation and lack of fire did not appear to have a great impact on flowering or fruit production. Insights from this threatened species may provide impetus not only to conserve, but to properly manage remaining pine rocklands in south Florida.
20050771|Namaqualand is a winter-rainfall desert of some 50 000 km, located in north-western South Africa. For a desert ecosystem, the region is characterized by a unique selective regime, namely highly predictable annual rainfall and a moderate temperature regime throughout the year. This selective regime is responsible for the unique plant ecological features of Namaqualand. These include: the dominance of communities by dwarf to low, shallow-rooted, short-lived and drought-sensitive leaf succulent shrubs; high abundance and diversity of geophytes; winter growth phenology; regular and spectacular spring flowering displays; rapid population turnover of perennials; weak competitive interactions; and high local and regional plant diversity. This paper provides a physiographical, biogeographical and ecological overview as background to this special issue. First, we outline the physiography and climate of Namaqualand, emphasizing unique components of its selective regime. Next we discuss the region's phytogeographical and floristic characteristics. Then we summarize what is known about plant form and function, focusing on growth form mix, phenology, carbon gain, water relations, and reproduction in vegetation dominated by leaf-succulent shrubs. Finally, we interpret Namaqualand's uniquely rich and dynamic plant communities in terms of plant functional processes. These plant ecological patterns and processes are discussed in terms of the predictions of a simple conceptual model for succulent-rich communities.
20146397|Plants have adapted to compensate for the loss of vegetative biomass and reproductive potential caused by grazing. Shoot damage breaks down the correlative inhibition maintained by apical dominance. The consequent increased branching may lead to increased production of flowers and fruits in damaged plants, provided that enough resources, both in terms of meristems and nutrients, are available. In Gentianella amarella, the removal of the apex of the main stem (10% clipping) had no pronounced effect on branching and plant performance. In one of the two study populations, however, apically damaged plants produced more fruits than undamaged control plants. The plants also fully compensated for 50% removal of the main stem in terms of above-ground biomass, but their fruit production was reduced compared to control and apically damaged plants. After 75% clipping, fruit production was not significantly reduced compared to 50% clipping. Consequently, G. amarella showed highest tolerance in the presence of minor shoot damage. The pattern is qualitatively similar in some other monocarpic species (Gentianella campestris, Erysimum strictum and Rhinanthus minor). Multiple constraints as well as selective forces may shape these compensatory responses: (1) A lack of basal meristems may constrain tolerance of high damage levels. (2) Species with basal meristems may have a potential to tolerate major damage, but a shortage of resources or otherwise unfavourable growth conditions may constrain their compensatory ability. (3) It may be adaptive to have maximum tolerance of low and moderate damage levels if chemical defences reduce the risk of extensive shoot damage as well as the risk of repeated grazing. (4) The compensatory ability of monocarpic species may be affected by selective forces that favour fast vertical growth early in the season and unbranched architecture in undamaged conditions. Therefore, it is not the mere grazing history, but also other factors associated with growth conditions that are required to explain the variation in grazing tolerance.
20050759|The morphological responses to changes in environmental quality shown by many clonal plants have been interpreted as an expression of foraging behaviour, as they allow the ramets to become concentrated in more favourable microhabitats. The morphological response to increased nutrient availability in the pseudoannual plant Trientalis europaea was studied in a field experiment. The response was largely size-dependent and consistent with enhanced clonal growth. Fertilized ramets produced more tubers and a larger main tuber. In contrast, stolon length was not affected by the treatment. A spatially explicit simulation model calibrated with data from the field experiment examined the population dynamics of T. europaea ramets in a spatially heterogeneous, temporally constant, environment. The model showed that T. europaea was effective at concentrating its ramets in favourable patches, but this process was strongly influenced by patch size. The analysis of this response at the clone level showed that ramet aggregation was mainly due to the enhanced performance of clones located initially in the favourable patches, or clones that located a favourable patch by chance. In these clones, the simultaneous increase of ramet size and survival accelerated the production of ramets. The temporal and spatial scale at which the aggregation of ramets in favourable patches was manifested suggests that the effectiveness of the morphological response in T. europaea is favoured by a high spatio-temporal predictability in the environment. Overall, the model emphasized the important role of population dynamics in understanding the nature of the foraging response.
41508751|We examined the effect of season of burn on flowering phenology of groundlayer species, in the year following burns, in a mesic-sand Midwestern oak savanna. Burn treatments were fall, early-season, growing-season, late-season, and 1 or 5 years after a prior early-season wildfire. For these treatments, we compared the number of flowering stems and of flowers for species overall, for the 20 most prolifically flowering species, as well as for species grouped by flowering phenoperiods, and by growth form. Growing-season burn had a significant negative effect on number of flowering stems and total number of flowers. This effect occurred when either the burn occurred during the flowering season or during the season prior to the flowering phenoperiod. Tradescantia ohiensis showed expedited flowering and Phlox pilosa showed delayed flowering in response to early-season burning. Flowering of early shrubs was reduced by the previous fall and early-spring fires, while flowering of mid-season blooming shrubs was reduced by the early- and growing-season burns. Vaccinium and Gaylussacia, early-flowering shrubs, produced fewer flowers 1 year after than 5 years after an early-season burn. Arabis lyrata showed reduced flowering from the early-season burn. We also found four instances where the early-spring burn effect on flowering was more severe than the fall burn effect, suggesting that many frequent early-season burns may be deleterious to flowering and reproduction of some species. Burns occurring too frequently in the same season could negatively affect future flowering and reproduction of these plant species.
20051234|In this second article of a series analysing ecotypic differentiation of the Burr Medic (Medicago polymorpha L.), occurring along a 1000 km natural aridity gradient in central Chile, we report variations in growth potential at low temperature in relation to phenology and latitude of collecting site. In two experiments conducted in outdoor nursey trials at Cauquenes, in the 'intermediate' (i.e., subhumid) mediterranean zone (3558 S, 7217 W), biomass accumulation among 4 and 18 accessions of Burr Medic, was compared. In Experiment 1, the two early-flowering accessions collected in the arid and semiarid zones (northern Chile) showed significantly greater winter growth potential than the two late-flowering accessions from humid, south-central Chile, at five different sowing densities. In Experiment 2, winter growth was compared, at a single sowing density, among 18 accessions collected in various sites along the aridity gradient. Here again, growth patterns were closely correlated to latitude of collecting site, with early-flowering ecotypes from the north showing significantly greater winter growth potential than those from the south. In a third experiment, relative growth rate, net assimilation rate and leaf area ratio and phytomass production were compared among eight accessions grown under temperature regimes simulating natural growth conditions at Cauquenes in June (winter) and October (spring), i.e., 12/7 C and 18/13 C day/night, respectively. As before, northern accessions showed higher growth potential in the lower temperature regime than those from humid and perhumid areas at more southern latitudes. These results suggest that in arid to semiarid environments, where rainfall is erratic and unpredictable, ecotypes of Burr Medic are naturally selected which show early-flowering and high growth capacity during winter, the period of the year when rainfall is most likely to occur in mediterranean-climate regions. Conversely, in humid areas, with higher rainfall predictability, and higher frequency of killing frost, ecotypes have been selected with longer periods of growth potential but lower winter growth. Applied and ecological aspects of the results are discussed in the context of a long-term program of annual pasture improvement programme.
40607005|This study investigated the effects of widespread forest clearance and fragmentation on forest compositional change between pre-settlement and the present (ca. 1800-1993) in western New York. Forest compositional turnover metrics were calculated to evaluate whether soil conditions accounted for the forest compositional change, to investigate how forest clearance might have contributed to the change, and to compare with the amount of change noted in other studies that compared the pre-settlement land surveys and the current Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) surveys. The results suggested weak relations between the forest compositional change and soil conditions. The amount of change at the county level was positively correlated with the amount of forest clearance by the late 1800s and negatively correlated with the amount of remnant forest in the late 1800s. Furthermore, while the geographic distributions of late-successional taxa in the study area exhibited increased patchiness and decreased contagion, those of early-successional taxa exhibited decreased patchiness and increased contagion. Comparison of taxa's changed abundances with seven life history characteristics commonly associated with early-and latesuccessional status showed that taxa's changed abundances were significantly related to maximum life and shade tolerance. Analysis of different-sized trees in different ages in the FIA survey indicated the possibility of the current forests trending back toward their pre-settlement composition.
40212853|The thale cress, Arabidopsis thaliana, is considered to be an important model species in studying a suite of evolutionary processes. However, the species has been criticized on the basis of its comparatively small size at maturity (and consequent limitations in the amount of available biomass for herbivores) and on the duration and timing of its life cycle in nature. In the laboratory, we studied interactions between A. thaliana and the cabbage butterfly, Pieris rapa e, in order to determine if plants are able to support the complete development of the herbivore. Plants were grown in pots from seedlings in densities of one, two, or four per pot. In each treatment, one, two, or five newly hatched larvae of P. rapae were placed on fully developed rosettes of A. thaliana. In a separate experiment, the same densities of P. rapae larvae were reared from hatching on single mature cabbage (Brassica oleracea) plants. Pupal fresh mass and survival of P. rapae declined with larval density when reared on A. thaliana but not on B. oleracea. However, irrespective of larval density and plant number, some P. rapae were always able to complete development on A. thaliana plants. A comparison of the dry mass of plants in different treatments with controls (= no larvae) revealed that A. thaliana partially compensated for plant damage when larval densities of P. rapae were low. By contrast, single cress plants with 5 larvae generally suffered extensive damage, whereas damage to B. oleracea plants was negligible. Rosettes of plants that were monitored in spring, when A. thaliana naturally grows, were not attacked by any insect herbivores, but there was often extensive damage from pulmonates (slugs and snails). Heavily damaged plants flowered less successfully than lightly damaged plants. Small numbers of generalist plant-parasitic nematodes were also recovered in roots and root soil. By contrast, plants monitored in a sewn summer plot were heavily attacked by insect herbivores, primarily flea beetles (Phyllotreta spp.). These results reveal that, in natural populations of A. thaliana, there is a strong phenological mismatch between the plant and most of its potential specialist insect herbivores (and their natural enemies). However, as the plant is clearly susceptible to attack from non-insect generalist invertebrate herbivores early in the season, these may be much more suitable for studies on direct defense strategies in A. thaliana.
20146794|Beach communities of eastern North America are commonly dominated by the native perennial grass Ammophila breviligulata. It typically co-occurs with a variety of annual grasses and herbs in the pioneer zone. To determine the potential significance of this vigorous clonal species to the annual community, density, spatial distribution, seed production and potential seed rain were quantified for three focus species (Triplasis purpurea, Cenchrus tribuloides, and Heterotheca subaxillaris) in a 45  40 m section of coastal beach on Staten Island, New York, USA. During autumn 2000, five 40 m transects (10 m apart) were established perpendicular to shore; ramet density for Ammophila, and densities and per capita seed production for the three species, were estimated in 150 contiguous quadrats (35 cm  30 cm) per transect. Both Triplasis and Cenchrus were more likely to occur in quadrats without Ammophila. Per capita seed production of Cenchrus and Heterotheca showed a curvilinear decrease with increasing numbers of Ammophila ramets. Mean seed rain per m was significantly reduced in the presence of Ammophila for all three focus annuals. In this beach community, Ammophila acts as an ecosystem engineer, but has a mostly negative influence on the distribution, density, and reproduction of the co-occurring annuals. Results suggest that continual, deliberate planting of A. breviligulata could be detrimental to the abundance and diversity of native annual herbs on the eastern coasts of North America.
40212932|The rare endemic plant Sidalcea hendersonii (Henderson's checker-mallow) occurs in tidal marshes of the Pacific Northwest and may be threatened by Lythrum salicaria (purple loosestrife), a European invader plant. We compared the abundances of Lythrum and Sidalcea in a wetland in British Columbia (Canada) in 1999 to those measured in 1979 to track changes in both species. Although the frequency of Sidalcea decreased by more than 50%, and that of Lythrum increased by almost 20%, there was no significant relationship between the changes of the two species. We assessed the potential effects of competition by Lythrum on Sidalcea in field and patio experiments. In the field, we measured the response of Sidalcea to the removal of Lythrum over a two-year period and compared this to the response of Sidalcea to the removal of native species and in unmanipulated control plots. Removal of Lythrum significantly improved the vegetative performance of Sidalcea compared to the removal of randomly selected native plants and the control treatment in the first year. In the second year, the performance of Sidealcea did not differ significantly with treatment. Removals did not influence the reproductive performance of Sidalcea in either year. A one-year additive experiment, carried out in pots, compared the competitive effect of Lythrum on Sidalcea with that of two native species. Lythrum's impact on Sidalcea was not consistently stronger than that of the native species. Collectively, these results do not indicate a strong impact of Lythrum on the reproduction or abundance of Sidalcea.
41508829|We conducted a field study to determine the relative contributions of aspen (Populus tremuloides), meadow, and conifer communities to local and landscape-level plant species diversity in the Sierra Nevada and southern Cascade Range, northeastern California, USA. We surveyed plant assemblages at 30 sites that included adjacent aspen, conifer, and meadow communities across a 10,000-km region. We statistically investigated patterns in local and landscape-scale plant diversity within and among the three vegetation types. Summing across sites, aspen stands supported more plant species overall and more unique plant species than either meadow or conifer communities. Local richness and diversity did not differ between aspen and meadow plots; conifer forest plots were significantly lower in both measures. Heterogeneity in species composition was higher for aspen forest than for meadows or conifer forest, both within sites and between sites. Plant communities in aspen stands shared less than 25% of their species with adjacent vegetation in conifer and meadow plots. Within aspen forest, we found a negative relationship between total canopy cover and plant diversity. Our results strongly support the idea that plant communities of aspen stands are compositionally distinct from adjacent meadows and conifer forest, and that aspen forests are a major contributor to plant species diversity in the study region. Current patterns of aspen stand succession to conifer forest on many sites in the semiarid western US are likely to reduce local and landscape-level plant species diversity, and may also have negative effects on other ecosystem functions and services provided by aspen forest.
40305663|Perennial, polycarpic herbs can respond to herbivory either by (1) regrowth in the same season in order to compensate for lost reproductive structures or by (2) postponing reproduction until the following growing season. We tested these response patterns with the perennial umbellifer Pimpinella saxifraga by simulating flower herbivory and shoot grazing both in the field and in a common garden experiment. In the field, both simulated flower herbivory and grazing effectively suppressed current reproduction, whereas no statistically significant effects of previous-year treatments on growth or reproduction were found in the following year. In the common garden, in the first year the species fully compensated for simulated flower herbivory in vegetative parameters but seed set was reduced by 26%. After 2 years of flower removal, the plants overcompensated in shoot and root biomass by 47 and 46%, respectively, and compensated fully in reproductive performance. Simulated grazing resulted in 21% lower shoot biomass in the first season, but the root biomass was not affected. In the second season the root biomass increased by 43% as compared to the control plants. However, regrowth following simulated grazing resulted in a significant delay in flowering with the consequence that the seed yield of fertile plants was reduced by 55% as compared to the control plants. These results suggest that in resource-rich garden conditions P. saxifraga may immediately repair injuries caused by flower herbivory, but repairs more extensive shoot injury less successfully. Delayed phenology decreases the benefits of immediate repair. In resource-poor conditions, the benefits of regrowth can be negligible. Accordingly, in our field population, the plants postponed their reproduction until the following year in response to simulated grazing and frequently in response to flower removal. When the plants gain very little from regrowth, the costs of reproduction would select for postponed reproduction in response to injury.
41412376|Acacia mearnsii is an introduced Australian acacia in South Africa and has invaded more than 2.5 million ha, primarily establishing in rangeland and riparian areas. Because acacias have the capability to fix N, A. mearnsii invasions may fundamentally change N dynamics in invaded systems. This study compares biological N-fixation in the alien invasive A. mearnsii and the native A. caffra growing in a grassland riparian zone in the Komati Gorge Reserve, Mpumalanga, South Africa. A uN natural abundance field survey suggested that both mature alien and native acacias fix N under current conditions in the riparian zone. Significantly depleted N was observed in both acacias relative to reference species, although variation in N was not correlated with N concentrations. Calculated contributions of N-fixation (% Ndfa) suggest that alien acacias fix significantly more of their N than native acacias (~75  5 % SE and 53  9% SE, respectively). There was a larger variation in N and % Ndfa in the native acacia, suggesting relatively high plasticity in its N-fixation contributions. This plasticity was interpreted as a facultative N-fixation strategy for the native acacia, while the N-fixation strategy of the alien acacia remained unclear. Our results emphasize the importance of potentially elevated N inputs through N-fixation by invasive legumes in invaded landscapes. Furthermore, they suggest that N-fixation by invasive acacias may not respond to fine-scale patchiness in soil N in the same manner as native acacias, making them potential contributors to N excess in Southern Africa. importance of potentially elevated N inputs through N-fixation by invasive legumes in invaded landscapes. Furthermore, they suggest that N-fixation by invasive acacias may not respond to fine-scale patchiness in soil N in the same manner as native acacias, making them potential contributors to N excess in Southern Africa.
20050814|This paper reports on the syntaxonomical structure, the ecological, physiognomical and phytogeographical differentiation of wetland forests in Latvia dominated by Picea abies and Fraxinus excelsior. Data were collected following the Braun-Blanquet approach and treated by the GROUPAGE, TWINSPAN and CANOCO programs. Spruce forests (Sphagno girgensohnii-Piceetum var. Crepis paludosa, S.g.-P. myrtilletosum) form a well-defined community mostly in shallow and medium deep (0.2-1.3 m) peatland. Assemblages of spruce wetlands in NEE Europe point to amazing similarity and little variation from NE Poland and Fennoscandia over the Baltic States to the central parts of Russia. Ash-dominated wetlands (Carici elongatae-Alnetum, Carici remotae-Fraxinetum) refer only to particular localities of the country and lie on wet mineral, gleyey soils, usually along brooks and on undulating ground rich in subsoil streams, mostly in sites without an evident accumulation of peat. In Latvia, these reach the northernmost limit of distribution and are poorer in species compared with the ash wetlands of Central Europe.
20146368| The decline of Cirsium dissectum in dessicating wetlands is attributed to acidification and eutrophication. Experimental evidence was obtained for the first time on ammonium toxicity under low pH. In a hydroculture experiment, interactive effects of nitrogen forms (250 mol
20146515|A factorial field experiment was used to assess the influence of soil-disturber mammals in the structure of a 9-year-old Mediterranean annual plant community subjected to different sheep grazing and irrigation regimes. We estimated the disturbance rate (mound building activity) by Mediterranean voles, their effects on vegetation and the mechanisms of these effects during a period of vole outbreak. The effects on vegetation were analysed at the levels of species, functional groups and plant community. Disturbance rate was high and voles can disturb the entire soil surface once every four or five years. The availability of certain trophic resources (perennial plants) appeared to drive vole expansion in the experimental plots and it was independent of the irrigation and grazing treatments. Mound building activities largely affected vegetation but conserved plot differences. Total vegetation cover, absolute cover of all functional groups, mean vegetation height and species richness were less on mounds than on undisturbed ground. These effects did not change the relative abundance of annuals, perennials, grasses and forbs. Only the relative abundance of small-seeded species decreased on mounds. As the proportion of these seeds was similar in both types of patches, we suggest that small-seeded species had more difficulties for germinating or emerging when they are buried during mound formation. Irrigation and sheep grazing promoted large changes in the vegetation parameters but these effects were, in general, similar on mounds and undisturbed ground. Our results show that the availability of germinable seeds may be the major limitation for mound revegetation, probably due to the scarcity of seeds existing at the depths from which soils are excavated. Our results also suggested a resource limitation on mounds. The results provide additional evidence that soil disturbances by small herbivore mammals exert relevant ecological effects on abandoned Mediterranean croplands. We discuss the ecological implications of vole mound-building activities for plant succession, plant species conservation and forage resource availability for livestock.
20051285|In this study we investigated the relationship between the distribution patterns of a number of herbaceous plant species and the isolation and age of habitat patches. The study was conducted for a network of ditch banks in an agricultural landscape in The Netherlands. Thirteen plant species were selected representing contrasting dispersal and seed bank characteristics. Isolation of habitat patches was determined by the distance to the nearest occupied patch and by the number of occupied patches in circles of increasing radius around the patches. Age was the number of years since the creation of the ditches. In a multiple logistic regression model the separate effects of age of the habitat and the spatial variables were analyzed. A number of habitat variables were used to correct the effect of habitat quality. We concluded that distribution patterns of plant species were mainly determined by habitat quality and the presence of seed sources at short distances (&lt 25 m). This conclusion was independent of the dispersal characteristics of the species. Most species had higher occupation frequencies in older than younger ditch banks. Only species with persistent seeds had comparable occupation probabilities in older and younger habitat patches, indicating the importance of the soil seed bank as a source of colonization after large-scale disturbances. The effect of age and management on the occupation probabilities of the species was often diminished in the regression model, probably due to correlation between some habitat variables and the age of the patches.
20051294|Myrkdalen Lake in Western Norway was subjected to a 1.4 m drawdown in June 1987. Plant establishment and vegetation succession on the exposed sediments of a fluvial delta plain was monitored through 2000. The investigated area extended from the original Equisetum fluviatile zone to the new lake edge. The substrate was homogeneous and consisted mainly of minerogenous fluvial sediments. Vegetation data were sampled within continuous quadrats along transects perpendicular to the shore, and they dropped 93 cm in elevation. Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Canonical Correspondence Analysis confirmed that "time since drawdown" and "elevation of the quadrats" appeared to be of nearly equal importance in explaining succession. Plant establishment was rapid on the exposed sediments due to a seed bank and to rapid invasion of plants. The succession includes both floristic change as a function of time and a spatial separation in relation to the water level. The species succession was marked by a growth from progression: mosses and annuals  non-clonal perennials  clonal perennials. After one month, the annual Subularia aquatica and small acrocarpous mosses dominated the site. Dominance then shifted to Deschampsia cespitosa, Juncus filiformis, Blasia pusilla and Polytrichum commune. Subsequently there was an increase of Carex vesicaria in the lower zone and Calamagrostis purpurea in the upper zone, while Phalaris arundinacea was common over most of the elevational gradient. Equisetum declined where it had dominated before drawdown, but it expanded gradually towards the new shoreline. The vegetation remained dynamic after 13 years and it is not considered to be in equilibrium with the new environmental gradient yet. However, annual changes measured by DCA scores have slowed and two vegetation zones have developed. The major vegetational differences along the elevational gradient can be explained by the height of the mean June water limit. This example of species turnover in space and time may be a model for other successions that occur along a strong gradient.
40305797|Patterns of fire occurrence within the Las Bayas Forestry Reserve, Mexico are analyzed in relation to variability in climate, topography, and human land-use. Significantly more fires with shorter fire return intervals occurred from 1900 to 1950 than from 1950 to 2001. However, the frequency of widespread fire years (25% filter) was unchanged over time, as widespread fires were synchronized by climatic extremes. Widespread fire years occurred during dry years that lagged wet years. Widespread fire years lagged the negative El Nio phase (wet winters) of the Southern Oscillation by 1 year, but were not synchronized by the positive, La Nia phase (dry winters) of the Southern Oscillation. The smaller, localized fires that occurred more frequently during the first half of the 20th century were attributed to changes in land tenure with the introduction of the ejido system in the early 1950s. Ejido management strategies lowered fire frequencies by suppressing fires and reducing anthropogenic fires. There were likely more ignitions prior to the arrival of the ejido system as fires were ignited by lightning and indigenous people. As the movement of indigenous peoples across the landscape has been restricted by changes in land tenure, numbers of human-ignited fires subsequently decreased post 1950. After 1950, fires occurred less frequently, were more synchronized, and more restricted to years of extreme climate.
20050742|A majority (72%) of Picea rubens Sarg. (red spruce) trees in an old-growth spruce-fir forest in the Great Smoky Mountains underwent episodes of radial growth suppression and release before they reached the forest canopy. Prior to canopy recruitment, trees experienced an average of 1.43 and a maximum of 7 suppression periods with an average ring width of 0.257 mm. Duration of suppression periods ranged from 4 to 79 years with an average of 19.05 years, which was significantly shorter than the average duration of release periods (29.00 years). Mean ring width in a suppression period was negatively correlated with duration of the suppression period. The opposite was true for release periods. The severity of suppression had no significant effect on mean ring width in subsequent release periods. Greater suppression was observed in the recent growth pattern of current non-canopy trees than in the historical growth pattern reconstructed from current canopy trees. Growth releases prior to canopy recruitment, triggered by small gaps or neighboring gaps, displayed a continuous pattern over the last two centuries and had consistent frequency in recent decades. By contrast, canopy recruitment resulting from large-gap disturbances was discontinuous over the last two centuries, and less frequent after 1850.
41508733|This study explores the host tree preferences of epiphyte bryophyte communities in two key types of evergreen cloud forests on La Gomera (Canary Islands, Spain): ericaceous versus broad-leaved laurel forest. By comparing two pairs of tree species (Erica arborea and Myrica faya vs. Ilex canariensis and Laurus novocanariensis) that occur in both forest types, we quantitatively examined whether epiphyte-host relationships change with the type of forest. In 51 ancient forest stands, the low-trunk bryophyte composition on the two host tree groups was analysed with both non-parametric procedures and ordination analyses. Our results highlight that the influence of local environmental conditions on the structuring of epiphyte communities may be different depending on the host tree identity. Whilst the epiphyte composition of the host tree group formed by I. canariensis and L. novocanariensis differed significantly between forest types depending on solar exposure, we failed to find variations for the other host tree group, excepting in those localities wherein mist precipitation was extremely high. Our findings highlight the importance of the natural diversity of tree species along environmental gradients, as well as of water availability at different spatial scales for epiphytic bryophytes in montane cloud forests.
40305689|South American temperate savannas have undergone significant woody plant encroachment through changes in their disturbance regimes. We studied fire strategies and the spatial variation in individual fire responses of Eupatorium buniifolium, Baccharis medullosa and B. dracunculifolia, the dominant shrub species at El Palmar National Park, in areas with different fire history. In recently burnt sites, all Baccharis dracunculifolia individuals died, whereas all E. buniifolium and B. medullosa individuals sprouted. The relative growth rate was higher in E. buniifolium, which invested more biomass in shoots, and in B. medullosa, which invested more biomass in leaves. At the unburnt site, B. dracunculifolia showed the highest growth rate and leaf biomass. B. medullosa produced capitula immediately after fire, whereas E. buniifolium reproduction was delayed for 1 year. In both species, production of capitula and reproductive effort were higher in recently burnt sites. For B. dracunculifolia, production of capitula was lower and the reproductive effort was higher in burnt than in unburnt sites. Seedling establishment was extremely low for E. buniifolium, low for B. medullosa and high for B. dracunculifolia in both recently burnt sites. E. buniifolium behaved as a sprouter, B. medullosa as facultative sprouter and B. dracunculifolia as obligate seeder species. In order to control the increase and/or attain desirable population levels of these species, fire management practices in these savannas should consider individual species' responses, particularly to the time since the last fire.
41686756|Species-area curves are often employed to identify factors affecting biodiversity patterns. The aim of this study was to determine how model choice affects biological interpretation of SAC parameters at a small scale in wet, temperate meadows (elezn hory Mts, Czech Republic). We estimated 88 species-area curves in nested plots on areas ranging from 0.01 to 4 m at 22 localities using four different models (Arrhenius, Gleason, and their log transformations). Relationships were tested between the parameters of the fitted curves (slope and intercept) and a number of environmental and vegetation characteristics (environmentalwater table, pH, nutrient availability, organic matter content; communityproductivity, evenness; and individual plantshoot cyclicity, persistence of connection among ramets, multiplication rate, dispersal ability). Species diversity was calculated for 0.01, 1, and 4 m. The corrected Akaike information criterion was used to identify the best model. The models differed in their sensitivity to environmental, community, and individual plant characteristics. The spatial scale that was the most suitable for revealing the factors underlying species diversity was the smallest considered (0.01 m). The most important factors were spatial pattern in community structure (evenness, lateral spread), plant mobility (lateral spread and persistence), and soil properties. Although Gleason model showed better fit to data (both non-log and log transformation) and its intercept was more sensitive to tested biological characteristics, the Arrhenius model was more sensitive when correlating biological characteristics and slope. Choice of model according to best fit criteria restricts possibilities of biological interpretation and deserves further study.
40305713|Elevated CO enhances carbon uptake of a plant stand, but the magnitude of the increase varies among growth stages. We studied the relative contribution of structural and physiological factors to the CO effect on the carbon balance during stand development. Stands of an annual herb Chenopodium album were established in open-top chambers at ambient and elevated CO concentrations (370 and 700 mol mol ). Plant biomass growth, canopy structural traits (leaf area, leaf nitrogen distribution, and light gradient in the canopy), and physiological characteristics (leaf photosynthesis and respiration of organs) were studied through the growing season. CO exchange of the stand was estimated with a canopy photosynthesis model. Rates of lightsaturated photosynthesis and dark respiration of leaves as related with nitrogen content per unit leaf area and time-dependent reduction in specific respiration rates of stems and roots were incorporated into the model. Daily canopy carbon balance, calculated as an integration of leaf photosynthesis minus stem and root respiration, well explained biomass growth determined by harvests (r = 0.98). The increase of canopy photosynthesis with elevated CO was 80% at an early stage and decreased to 55% at flowering. Sensitivity analyses suggested that an alteration in leaf photosynthetic traits enhanced canopy photosynthesis by 40-60% throughout the experiment period, whereas altered canopy structure contributed to the increase at the early stage only. Thus, both physiological and structural factors are involved in the increase of carbon balance and growth rate of C. album stands at elevated CO. However, their contributions were not constant, but changed with stand development.
20050728|Population structure and ecological characteristics of component species of a riparian Ulmus-Quercus forest in central Japan were analyzed with special reference to riparian disturbance regime. Though the dbh distribution of the whole community was L-shaped, those of several component tree populations had several modes, suggesting intermittent regeneration periods in the past. Correlation of spatial distributions among tree populations and subpopulations showed 6 major groups reflecting riparian disturbances in the past and different establishment patterns among species. A cluster of small-sized tree populations (Salix sachalinensis, Alnus hirsuta and Populus maximowiczii &lt30 cm dbh) were distributed on the lower terrace along the active river channel, while large-sized subpopulations (dbh 60 cm) of Quercus crispula and Ulumus davidiana var. japonica occurred on the higher terrace. The Phellodendron amurense population also occurred on the higher terrace in small clumps though the trees were small (less than 55 cm dbh). Subpopulations of intermediate-sized individuals (30  dbh &lt 60 cm) of Q. crispula and U. davidiana var. japonica, together with Betula and Acer spp. populations occurred on the intermediate terrace. Dendrochronological analyses indicated that the large and intermediate-sized tree groups were established about 330 and 90 years ago, respectively, while the small-sized tree group established about 35 years ago. A survey of historical disturbances showed that these periods of establishment of the former two groups almost coincided with the historically major floods occurring in 1662 and 1902. However, the disturbance that resulted in the establishment of the youngest group could not be precisely identified. Thus, the forest is a mosaic of three differently-aged patches, which is closely related to the frequency and scale of riparian disturbances. Longevity of trees and the preferred conditions for seed germination and/or seedling establishment were particularly important for the guild structure in this forest community.
41508738|The environmental texture hypothesis (ETH) proposes that the spatial geometry or texture of the environment influences the rate at which species are accumulated in space or time. Specifically, the ETH suggests that regions, and spatial scales, that exhibit a larger rate of environmental distance decay (DD) should exhibit more rapid rates of species turnover. The ETH should apply over any range of scales where the environment is driving species distributions. To examine the relevance of the ETH at local spatial scales, we tested for a positive relationship between the rate of change in soil chemical properties and vascular plant species composition in grassland and woodland habitats. We recorded presenceabsence data along a 1.883 km transect in each habitat and estimated the rate of turnover and environmental DD for spatial lags of 1-41 m . We found that the soil environment explained spatial patterns of species composition more accurately in the grassland habitat compared to the woodland habitat. Consequently the rate of change in soil properties as a function of spatial distance was significantly positively correlated with the rate of species turnover in the grassland but not the woodland. Our study suggests that one of the central premises of the ETH is relevant for local patterns of species turnover if the environment appears to influence species composition.
20146846|Antarctic terrestrial biota are generally limited by the inexorably linked environmental factors of low summer temperature and lack of available water. However, in parts of the Antarctic, both these factors are changing rapidly on contemporary timescales. Terrestrial biota have concurrently been faced with changes in the timing of UV-B maxima associated with spring ozone depletion. The region of the Antarctic Peninsula and Scotia Arc has experienced one of the most rapid rates of environmental warming seen worldwide over the last 30-50 years. Together with local changes in precipitation, this has resulted in a rapid reduction in extent and thinning of many ice-fields and glaciers, exposing new terrain for colonisation while, at the same time, altering patterns of water availability in terrestrial habitats. The rapid development of communities on newly-exposed ground is also facilitated by the existence of soil propagule banks, which contain propagules of both local and exotic origin. In this paper we collate and review evidence from a range of observational and manipulative studies that investigate the effect of climate change, especially increased temperature, on the processes of colonisation and subsequent community development by plants in the Antarctic. Biological changes that have been associated with climate change are visible in the form of expansions in range and local population numbers amongst elements of the flora. Environmental manipulation experiments further demonstrate the possibility of large and rapid species and community responses to climate amelioration, with many resident biota responding positively, at least in the absence of increased competition from exotic colonists. Manipulation studies are also starting to elucidate more subtle responses to climate changes, at levels ranging from cell biochemistry to habitat and food web structure. Integrating such subtle responses is vital to improving our ability to understand the consequences of climate change, as these may lead to much greater consequential impacts on communities and ecosystems.
20146521|The slopes of Mt. Koma in Japan are undergoing primary succession as a result of a 1929 eruption. Understory vegetation below a non-native invasive tree species, Larix kaempferi, a native tree, Betula ermanii, and in the open were compared to determine if the non-native tree species was influencing species composition. Larix canopies are significantly larger than Betula canopies. Vegetation under Larix canopies had significantly greater richness and diversity than vegetation in the open, vegetation under Betula was intermediate but was significantly greater than the open in diversity. Vegetation cover was highest under Betula and significantly lower in the open. Larix canopy size was positively correlated with size and number of Salix reinii shrubs. Betula canopy size was positively correlated with size but not with number of Salix reinii shrubs. Species assemblages in the three sites are slightly different as shown by DCA. Due to the limited species pool on Mt. Koma the greatest possible extent of differences between the three microsites is not large. At this point Larix certainly appears to be accelerating succession for the non-tree species. If Larix persists on the slopes then succession would be permanently deflected towards a Larix forest. This would be a case of succession being deflected towards dominance by the introduced species.
20146501|The relative importance of subterranean versus aboveground insect damage to plants is not well understood. In particular, the simultaneous effects of above- and belowground herbivory, and the importance of highly variable abiotic factors such as rainfall, have received little attention in diverse natural ecosystems. We investigated the influence of both above- and belowground herbivory on Lupinus nanus (Fabaceae), an annual plant native to coastal California. A number of insect species damage L. nanus aboveground, and a weevil larva consumes nodules belowground. To manipulate herbivory in the field, we employed a combination of insecticides and simulated herbivory during two different years. In 1997, simulated belowground damage reduced L. nanus survival, and insecticide application to roots increased seed production and seed mass. By contrast, in 1998, only aboveground folivory significantly reduced L. nanus reproduction, and, in combination, above- and belowground insecticides did not affect flower or seed number relative to controls. A growth chamber experiment conducted in the absence of herbivory revealed that the aboveground insecticide marginally reduced flower production and the belowground insecticide marginally increased flower production compared to controls; these non-target effects made our field experiments for aboveground herbivory conservative. Finally, ambient levels of herbivory differed among years (1997, 1998, and 2000), which varied greatly in rainfall due to the effects of El Nino. The results suggest that the impacts of herbivores are temporally variable and that abiotic factors, particularly those related to large-scale changes in weather patterns, may be more important than insect herbivory to L. nanus in some years.
23362518|In central-western Argentina, there is a pronounced water deficit gradient, from semiarid climate conditions with 500-mm rainfall/year to arid climate conditions with 80-mm rainfall/year. This climatic transition, governed by the rainfall gradient, occurs between the Arid Chaco and Monte phytogeographic regions and is evidenced by differences in vegetation type, structure, dynamics and tree growth. In turn, the availability of soil moisture, particularly access to the water table, modifies water use strategies by trees along this gradient. We analyzed how water availability, expressed as differences in accessibility to the water table, influences Prosopis flexuosa tree rings along a precipitation gradient. In this manner, we try to interpret the growth of species according to the use of differential water sources. P. flexuosa showed highly varying growth reactions (tree-ring width and hydraulic anatomic parameters) with climate, depending on the ecology of the site. Along the Arid Chaco-Monte gradient, the growth of P. flexuosa is more dependent on variations in rainfall in those areas where water depth is greater than root spread. The climate signal was hidden in those regions where the water table is accessible to the root system.
20050449|Recovery after experimental burning and cutting in a shrubland of Cistus laurifolius in NW Spain has been studied. The community was homogeneous prior to the disturbances, and tended to recover through a process of autosuccession. It was tested whether in a small space (two 100 m plots) there was a greater similarity among individual subplots (1 m) in five consecutive years, or among the five subplots considered in each plot in the same year. By comparing space and time beta diversity using analysis of variance, no significant differences were observed, which indicates that temporal changes are not of a greater magnitude than space heterogeneity, even on such a small scale. Changes in time are characterized by an increase in cover by woody species, mainly Cistus laurifolius, or a decrease in the diversity and richness of species. Space heterogeneity (differences between subplots) does not seem to be determined by environmental gradients, since the sampling surface is very small, and may be due to the effect of some annual or perennial species, which are not dominant and only appear in some subplots, probably due to random dispersal.
41508697|Wildlife species are threatened by massive habitat destruction worldwide. Habitat fragmentation and isolation spatially constrain animals and in turn cause non-sustainable rates of animal foraging on plant populations. However, little empirical research has been done in large controlled settings to investigate foraging impacts. We conducted an experiment to characterize the impact of panda foraging on the sustainability of its food resource, bamboo, in an enclosed area of natural habitat (approximately 19 ha). We monitored bamboo density, age, and percent cover throughout the enclosure across a 3-year period. We documented marked declines in bamboo density and percent cover as a result of panda foraging, particularly in younger bamboo age classes. We constructed simultaneous autoregressive models to explain bamboo loss to panda foraging and subsequent bamboo recovery as a function of habitat conditions. Areas with high initial bamboo cover not only were prone to high rates of bamboo percent cover loss but also experienced high rates of subsequent bamboo recovery, as bamboo cover loss opened up the understory for new growth. Variograms of ordinary least squares model residuals revealed that the range of spatial autocorrelation in bamboo loss increased over time as available bamboo forage declined. The results have implications for understanding the impact of animal foraging on vegetation and also highlight the importance of preventing further habitat fragmentation and isolation.
20051026|The relative merits of different methods for separating root and shoot competition in plants are reviewed. The 'Divided Pot' technique involves vertical partitions that divide above- and below-ground competition within pots. This design usually creates unrealistic competition for light by using artificial barriers around pot perimeters to contain above-ground growth and by using a constant orientation of incident light from directly above. The 'Row' technique involves parallel rows of plants that are separated by vertical partitions above- and below-ground. Although, this design may be well suited to some agricultural applications, its value for field studies of wild plants is limited. The Divided Pot and Row techniques have been associated often with the replacement series design, which has a number of limitations. The 'Target' technique has always been associated with an additive planting design as it involves surrounding a plant of interest (the 'target') with other plants (the 'neighbours') while including above- and below-ground partitions to prevent root and shoot competition. Most studies using this technique have not provided adequate control for apparatus effects, yet this method appears to have the most potential for application in ecological studies, especially in the field. A standard protocol for the target technique is proposed allowing greater control over potential apparatus effects than in previous studies and allowing assessment of the interaction between root competition and shoot competition.
20147009|A number of studies have showed that under some conditions plant may partially, fully or overcompensate for tissue loss, however, the mechanisms underlying compensation are not well understood and still need to be researched. We examined the ability of Caragana korshinskii to compensate for fruit production after above-ground partial shoot removal. Fruit production of 30% main shoot length removal (30% RSL) and 25 and 50% main shoot number removal (25% RSN, 50% RSN) resulted in overcompensation and the response of 60% main shoot length removal (60% RSL) was full compensation. Plants' responses associated with compensation included (1) greater reproduction efficiency (RA); (2) increased fruit set; (3) decreased fruit abortion; (4) increased seed number per pod; and (5) higher individual seed biomass. These responses may have resulted from more nectar production per flower, more sucrose flux per pod and more sucrose flux per seed of clipped plants, which may in turn have resulted from (1) drawing upon more non-structural carbohydrate (TNC) from roots to supply flower bud development and the flush of new foliage; (2) supplying more photosynthetic assimilation to fruit development owing to increases in leaf-level photosynthetic rates. Increases in leaf-level photosynthetic rates may be caused by more nutrient (nitrogen) and water availability per unit area of resource leaves after clipping.
41508838|Low-intensive grazing is a widely used management tool to conserve the outstanding biodiversity of calcareous grasslands. As conservation management is cost-intensive and often hampered by limited financial resources, combining adequate management for biodiversity conservation with feasible livestock production may be relevant for both conservationists and land managers. However, profound knowledge of the effect of grazing in nonintensively used grasslands on seasonal variation in biomass quality is scarce. We analyzed the floristic composition, abiotic soil properties and the chemical composition of aboveground biomass in a grazed calcareous grassland in NW Germany. Sampling took place in monthly intervals during one growing season. To separate the impact of grazing and nongrazing on biomass quality, an exclosure experiment was performed. Floristic composition of the studied calcareous grasslands was mainly related to two gradients representing the trophic status and the longterm management intensity. Differences in abiotic site conditions were hardly reflected by nutrient concentrations in the biomass. Irrespectively of abiotic site conditions, the chemical composition of the biomass showed a clear seasonal trend. Nutrient concentrations strongly declined from May to July but increased again in August, probably because of favourable current-year weather conditions. Sheep grazing improved biomass quality indicating that grazing modifies the environment beneficially for the animals. We conclude that early spring and late summer grazing is an appropriate management scheme to balance requirements of both feasible livestock production and biodiversity conservation, which is promising for sustainable and long-term conservation management.
20146913| Differences between growth forms in root responses to experimentally created heterogeneity have been documented in many greenhouse and plot studies, but not in natural vegetation. Here we examined the response of roots to experimental nutrient patches in undisturbed grassland and forest at the northern edge of the North American Great Plains. Forest vegetation increases the spatial heterogeneity of soil resources, and we tested for differences between forest and grassland roots in response to patches. Ten minirhizotrons (clear tubes, 5 cm diameter, 180 cm long) were installed in both grassland and forest 3 years before the experiment. Minirhizotrons ran horizontally 10 cm beneath the soil surface. Patches of available nitrogen (N) were created over the tubes, using three concentrations (0, 3, 15 g N m yr) and two patch sizes (1 and 10 cm). Root images were collected beneath patches over the course of a growing season. Root length was significantly greater in grassland than forest at the start and end of the growing season, but did not respond to N patches. Root production was also significantly greater in grassland than forest, and was significantly greater (about 20%) in high-N patches than in unfertilized patches. This increase, however, did not differ between vegetation types. Turnover did not vary with any treatment, and patch size had no effect on any response variable. Overall, differences caused by experimental patches were much smaller than differences between habitats, and did not vary between habitats. Realistic levels of experimentally imposed hetereogeneity in established vegetation may not be much greater than background levels, and field vegetation has extant root systems which respond to patches via uptake instead of growth. Both mechanisms should contribute to less root proliferation in field experiments than in greenhouse experiments. 
40212960|Tropical rain forest dominated by Peltogyne gracilipes (Fabaceae) occurs on Maraca Island, Roraima, Brazil, on a range of soil types. Three forest types were stratified for sampling, according to the occurrence of Peltogyne trees: (1) Peltogyne-rich forest (PRF), (2) Peltogyne-poor forest (PPF), and (3) forest without Peltogyne (FWP). Biomass increment and change in total stand biomass were calculated from mortality, recruitment, and growth data for trees in the three forest types. Data were derived from permanent plots established in 1991, where all trees ( 10 cm diameter at breast height), including palms and vines ( lianas), were tagged and measured in three plots, each of 0.25 ha, in each of the three forest types. Field surveys were carried out in October 1991 and March 2003. Over a period of 11 years, the above- ground biomass in all forest types declined slightly (<5%), associated with the death of large trees, especially in the monodominant forests ( PRF and PPF). Within the study period, the forest on Marac experienced two heavy droughts, related to El Nino events (1997-1998 and 2002-2003) and most mortality and loss of biomass probably occurred during these events. Therefore, as the Maraca forests appear not be increasing in above-ground biomass overall, they may not be acting as a sink for atmospheric CO. The trees of the five most abundant species (Ecclinusa, Lecythis, Licania, Peltogyne, and Pradosia) accounted for about 55% of the total biomass in both FWP and PPF and for 74% in PRF. Peltogyne gracilipes had a stable, regenerating population in PRF, and is clearly a persistent dominant in a monodominant forest.
40305677|Allelopathic interference between plants has generally been discussed in terms of the production of toxic complex biochemicals; however, complex biochemicals may not be the only substances plants use to interfere with one another. It has also been suggested that inorganic elements may be used in an allelopathic manner. If, through phytoenrichment or root exudates, a plant is able to increase the bioavailable levels of a particular element and tolerate the levels better than its neighbors, it can produce an allelopathic effect. Elemental allelopathy has been implicated as the cause for the success of a number of invasive weeds, including Acroptilon repens, Tamarix spp., Halogeton glomeratus, Salsola iberica, and Mesambryenthemum crystallinum. Phytoenrichment of elements can occur through hyperaccumulation and litter deposition and by altering rhizosphere chemistry. Reported cases of elemental allelopathy have involved three types of elements: heavy metals and soluble salts in terrestrial systems and elemental S in aquatic systems. For the most part, studies that have reported elemental allelopathy have been inconclusive. In order to prevent overreaching conclusions in the study of biochemical allelopathy, criteria were set that can be adapted to the study of elemental allelopathy. Of the studies reviewed, the most common criteria left uninvestigated were whether the plant was actually responsible for changing the concentration of the element and whether the increased levels of an element negatively affected other species. If the study of elemental allelopathy is to avoid the same problems often associated with the study of biochemical allelopathy, these criteria should be included in investigations of elemental allelopathy.
23362521|Alien plants with abundant and nutritious fruits may compete more effectively for avian dispersal services than native shrubs. This premise was examined by comparing daily foraging activity (visitation frequency, foraging bird number and foraging period) by four frugivorous bird species of different size on fruits of two native and two alien shrub species co-occurring at four different sites. Also, the quantities of seeds consumed daily by each of the four birds species from fruits of the four shrub species were measured and compared with the numbers of fruits and seeds, and the mass of fruits present in the shrub canopies as well as with their fruit monosaccharide concentrations. The quantities of seed consumed daily by four different size bird species (Columba arquatrix, Colius striatus, Pycnonotus capensis, Zosterops pallidus subsp capensis) were positively correlated with the numbers of seeds per m 2 of canopy area and with fruit mass and fruit monosaccharide content per m 2 of canopy area, as well as with the monosaccharide concentration of individual fruits, except in the C. arquatrix (African olive pigeon). All four bird species displayed the highest daily visitation frequencies on fruits of the alien Solanum mauritianum which were more abundant and nutritious than fruits of the other alien Lantana camara and fruits the natives Olea europaea subsp africana and Chrysanthemoides monilifera. They also all consumed greater quantities of seed daily from fruits of the alien S. mauritianum than from fruits of the other shrub species. These results corroborate proposals that frugivorous birds concentrate their foraging activities on those alien plants with the most abundant and nutritious fruits.
20050586|Populations of seeds can vary greatly in their dormancy-breaking and germination characteristics. The purpose of this study was to determine if such dormancy differences are levelled out by cold stratification. Seeds of 33 annual weed species, each represented by three populations, were tested in light and darkness 7 weeks after harvest and after two stratification treatments: 18 weeks at 3 C in the laboratory and 19 weeks outdoors in soil during winter. Cold stratification removed population differences in some species, but in several species such differences became apparent only after stratification. This happened either because dormancy became stronger in weakly dormant seeds (winter annuals) or weaker in strongly dormant seeds (summer annuals). In several species, the light requirement for germination increased after stratification. These results clearly indicate that germination tests performed on fresh seeds from a single population may not adequately predict germination percentages in the field.
40212947|We examined the impact of ploughing on soil seed banks of plant communities living in temporary marshes located in agricultural fields. The quantity, quality and vertical distribution of seeds were quantified under ploughed or unploughed treatment at community level. We also focussed on a typical semi-aquatic species, Damasonium alisma, to investigate the impact of ploughing at population level. We used two complementary techniques to study seed banks: hand sorting and seedling emergence. We found that species richness of seeds, seed abundance and germination ability were strongly affected by ploughing at community level. Concerning D. alisma, most of the seeds (56%) were stored in the two deepest soil layers among the four considered in ploughed pools. Moreover, the germination rate was higher for buried seeds (84%) than for seeds collected at the surface (33.6%). These patterns were almost inverted in unploughed pools. Our results agree with the temporal storage effect generally suggested to describe the seed bank property of plant communities. But in addition, we showed that ploughing induces a spatial storage effect in accumulating species and individuals in the seed banks that favourably influence community dynamics. We conclude that, in contrast to what is usually thought, ploughing disturbance can be of benefit for such ephemeral wetland vegetation.
40607007|It has been hypothesized that environmental variability can influence the sex ratio of a plant population, and it has been observed that in stressful environments, male plants are more abundant than females. However, it is unknown whether this is due to differential mortality rates between males and females. In this study, we analyzed sex ratio, mortality, and size distribution in a population of the neotropical tree/bush Bursera fagaroides in two different environments (east-and west-oriented slopes) over a 10-year period. We determined that the sex ratio favored males in the more stressful environment (east-facing slope) and that females were significantly larger in the less stressful environment (west-facing slope). Despite a significant difference in size between sexes by slope aspect, the difference in sex ratio cannot be explained by slope or by mortality during the 10 years of observation.
20050634|Growth, phenology, survivorship, and seed production were observed in a population of a desert annual, Blepharis sindica, with reference to the variation in the timing of seedling emergence. The population consisted of several cohorts induced by rain-cued seed release within a growing season. The fate of 100 individuals of six cohorts was monitored throughout the growing season. Earlier-established cohorts had significantly larger plant sizes and higher reproductive outputs than later cohorts. The time and duration of each phenological stage varied among the cohorts, and they were also influenced by plant size. Mortalities at the seedling stage, vegetative stage, and reproductive stage increased with the delay of seed release. Seed release was concentrated in the early growing season. Fecundity was highest in the earliest cohort and decreased monotonically in later cohorts. The results suggested that even in temporally varying environments, the superiority of early emergent plants was evident. The seed release patterns in temporally fluctuating desert environments are discussed as a compromise between 'diversified bet-hedging' and an optimal timing for maximizing the reproductive success in a growing season.
23267479|In the absence of coevolved natural enemies, plants are expected to experience selection away from costly herbivore defenses toward growth and reproduction [evolution of increased competitive ability hypothesis (EICA)], yet no one has demonstrated EICA for an indirect defense trait. Likewise, we have little understanding of how constitutive and induced levels of defense vary among native and invasive plant populations. We conducted a greenhouse experiment in the introduced range to test whether invasive populations have reduced constitutive and induced investment in an indirect defense trait, extrafloral nectar (EFN) production, compared to native populations of Chinese tallow tree, Triadica sebifera, through an experimental leaf damage treatment. Overall, native populations invested more in indirect defense: Native populations had a greater number (+16 %) and percentage of leaves producing EFN (35 vs. 28 %), produced more EFN (63 % greater volume), and produced more sugar (+33 %) compared to invasive populations, independent of damage treatment. Of these traits, number of leaves producing EFN and volume of EFN exhibited a trade-off between constitutive and induced investment but these did not depend on plant origin. Our results are the first to support the EICA hypothesis for an indirect defense trait. This suggests that tri-trophic interactions such as indirect defense are under similar selection as direct defense traits within introduced populations. Despite reduced investment in EFN production, invasive populations still retain the ability to produce EFN, which may enable invasive plants to defend against herbivores in the introduced range.
20050414|The possible mechanism(s) by which supplemental UV-B radiation alleviates the adverse effects of summer drought in Mediterranean pines (Petropoulou et al. 1995) were investigated with seedlings of Pinus pinea. Plants received ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation (biologically equivalent to a 15% ozone depletion over Patras, 38.3 N, 29.1 E) and natural precipitation or additional irrigation. Treatments started on 1 February, 1994 and lasted up to the end of the dry period (29 September). In well-watered plants, UV-B radiation had no influence on photosystem II photochemical efficiency and biomass accumulation. Water stressed plants suffered from needle loss and reduced photosystem II photochemical efficiency during the summer. These symptoms, however, were less pronounced in plants receiving supplemental UV-B radiation, resulting in higher total biomass at plant harvest. Laboratory tests showed that enhanced UV-B radiation did not improve the tolerance of photosystem II against drought, high light, high temperature and oxidative stress. Enhanced UV-B radiation, however, improved the water economy of water stressed plants, as judged by measurements of needle relative water content. In addition, it caused an almost two-fold increase of cuticle thickness. No such UV-B radiation effects were observed in well-watered pines. The results indicate that the combination of water stress and UV-B radiation may trigger specific responses, enabling the plants to avoid excessive water loss and, thereby, maintain a more efficient photosynthetic apparatus during the summer. The extent of this apparently positive UV-B radiation effect would depend on the amount of summer precipitation.
20146854|The response of tundra plants to enhanced UV-B radiation simulating 15 and 30% ozone depletion was studied at two high arctic sites (Isdammen and Adventdalen, 78 N, Svalbard). The set-up of the UV-B supplementation systems is described, consisting of large and small UV lamp arrays, installed in 1996 and 2002. After 7 years of exposure to enhanced UV-B radiation, plant cover, density, morphological (leaf fresh and dry weight, leaf thickness, leaf area, reproductive and ecophysiological parameters leaf UV-B absorbance, leaf phenolic content, leaf water content) were not affected by enhanced UV-B radiation. DNA damage in the leaves was not increased with enhanced UV-B in Salix polaris and Cassiope tetragona. DNA damage in Salix polaris leaves was higher than in leaves of C. tetragona. The length of male gametophyte moss plants of Polytrichum hyperboreum was reduced with elevated UV-B as well as the number of Pedicularis hirsuta plants per plot, but the inflorescence length of Bistorta vivipara was not significantly affected. We discuss the possible causes of tolerance of tundra plants to UV-B (absence of response to enhanced UV-B) in terms of methodology (supplementation versus exclusion), ecophysiological adaptations to UV-B and the biogeographical history of polar plants.
41508718|Seedling establishment is one of the most vulnerable life cycle stages, and a key component for the population dynamics in short-lived plants. In unpredictable environments, timing of emergence is critical for the success of plant performance, and different adaptive bet-hedging strategies have evolved to reduce the risk of failure in recruitment. In this study we describe the spatio-temporal pattern of seedling emergence (overall rate and timing) and survival in four contrasting Mediterranean habitats for Plantago coronopus, a small herb with dimorphic seeds. We then explore the importance of spreading germination within years, as well as the role of the two types of seeds from a broader temporal perspective. Populations strongly differed for all recruitment components analyzed in a given year, but this spatial differentiation diluted when a longer period was considered. Apical (smaller) seeds germinated later and in a significantly lower proportion than basal (larger) seeds. Both late emergents and seedlings from apical seeds had lower survival probability in a rainy year. However, our results suggest that in a population having the lowest production of apical seeds, late emergents coming from apical seeds may constitute a large fraction of yearly recruitment and that their performance was non-significantly different from that of early emergents over the 4-year study period. This study provides evidence of the importance of two related traits (spreading seedling emergence through time by producing dimorphic seeds) as bet-hedging strategies to cope with environmental unpredictability. This is at least partly accomplished by increasing the potential of recruitment in favourable years, instead of buffering such important process in extremely bad years.
20050650|Vegetation and soil development during succession in coastal dune slacks on Terschelling island, the Netherlands, was investigated, by comparing neighbouring ecosystems on similar substrates that had been developing for 1, 5, 35 and 76 years since the vegetation and organic soil layer had been removed. In this successional sequence, soil organic matter accumulated rapidly due to the production of litter and dead roots. N mineralization was extremely low, increasing from 0.2
20146987| Leaf area index (LAI, the one-sided foliage area per unit ground surface area) is a key determinant of plant productivity which has a large influence on water and energy exchange between vegetation and the atmosphere. The variation in forest LAI across landscapes and environmental gradients and its causes are not sufficiently understood. We measured the LAI of European beech (Fagus sylvatica) by litter trapping in 23 closed, mature stands across gradients of rainfall and soil acidity or fertility. With a mean LAI of 7.4 m m (minimum: 5.6, maximum: 9.5 m m), beech stands maintained a comparably high leaf area index with relatively small variation along steep environmental gradients. Contrary to expectation, decreasing water availability (rainfall gradient from 1030 to 520 mm yr) or increasing soil acidity (pH 3-7) had no significant effect on LAI. Stand leaf mass (M) increased slightly with soil fertility (C/N ratio, base saturation). We regressed parameters of site water availability (rainfall), soil fertility or acidity (pH, base saturation, C/N ratio, exchangeable Mg and Al content), and stand structure (stand age and stem density) against LAI and M in order to detect environmental controls of stand leaf area. Stand age was the most influential factor for both LAI and M (negative relationship). Stem density and the base saturation of the soil affected M significantly, but had a weak influence on LAI. We conclude that the leaf area index of beech is mainly under control of age-related physiological factors, whereas the influence of soil chemistry and rainfall is comparably low. 
23267465|Because most shoot recruitment in perennial grasses occurs from belowground axillary buds, bud dynamics determine plant population dynamics and meristem limitation to population growth. Therefore, grassland vegetation responses to environmental change or disturbance may be influenced by interspecific differences in bud banks and the patterns and environmental controls of bud development and demography. We examined bud bank dynamics in Andropogon gerardii and Dichanthelium oligosanthes in tallgrass prairie by enumerating and classifying buds throughout 15 months to determine whether grass buds live for multiple years and accumulate; whether bud natality, dormancy and outgrowth are synchronous or variable; and whether bud bank dynamics differ between these co-occurring species. Andropogon gerardii (a C 4 species) maintained a larger dormant bud bank, showed synchrony in bud development and transition to tiller, and its buds lived for multiple years. Thus, multiple previous years' bud cohorts contributed to recruitment. By contrast, D. oligosanthes (a C 3 species) maintained a smaller dormant bud bank, had asynchronous bud development with active buds present year-round, and its buds lived for 1 year. Buds played different roles in the dynamics of each species, allowing A. gerardii to over-winter and recruit new spring tillers and D. oligosanthes to survive and recruit new tillers following summer dormancy. These differences in bud bank age structure, phenology, and dynamics between these species suggest greater demographic buffering and time-lag effects in A. gerardii populations. Interspecific differences in bud bank structure and dynamics may explain and help predict grassland responses to environmental change.
20050457|Soil seed banks of anthropogenic native grassland and grassy forest remnants on the Gippsland Plain in southeastern Australia were studied using the seedling emergence method. Intact examples of both ecosystems are rare, owing to extensive agricultural development. Both ecosystems are assumed to have been derived since European settlement from the same original, grassy forest ecosystem. It was hypothesised that species now restricted to grassland remnants might persist in the soil seed bank of forest remnants, and vice versa. This hypothesis was not supported. In total, 25 554 seedlings of at least 155 species emerged from forest and grassland seed banks collectively. Small-seeded, annual and perennial herbs were most abundant. Forest seedbanks differed substantially in composition from grassland seedbanks, and both essentially contained a subset of the species in the vegetation. Forest seedbanks contained significantly more species and individuals of annual and perennial native dicotyledons than grassland seedbanks. Seedbanks made a major contribution to local diversity, since many species in the seed bank at each quadrat were not recorded from the vegetation, but only a minor contribution to regional diversity. Species in the seedbank that were absent from all vegetation samples were recorded at few quadrats, except Juncus species, which were widespread and abundant in the seedbank. The apparent absence from forest seed banks of species that are best represented in grassland remnants (and vice versa), suggests that there is little opportunity of recruiting grassland-restricted species in forest remnants by instigating grassland management practices.
20050950|The ability to germinate under a variety of environmental conditions is essential for plant species inhabiting a wide range of altitudes and latitudes. Phacelia secunda J. F. Gmel. (Hydrophyllaceae) is a perennial herb with wide latitudinal and altitudinal distributional ranges. In the central Chilean Andes (33 S) P. secunda can be found from 1600 m sealevel up to the vegetation limit at 3400 m. It has been suggested that seeds from populations encountering long periods with snow cover and adverse winter conditions would require longer periods of cold stratification for germination than those from populations exposed to milder winters. Given that the snow-free period decreases with elevation, seeds from high elevation populations could require longer period of cold stratification to germinate. Moreover, it has been shown that seeds from arctic and higher elevations environments are adapted to germinate better under high temperature conditions. Germination response with increasing periods of cold stratification (0-6 mo.) and under two contrasting thermoperiods (20 /10 C; 10 /5 C; 12 h day/night), were studied for 4 populations of P. secunda located at 1600, 2100, 2900 and 3400 m a.s.l. Initiation of germination required increasingly longer periods of stratification with elevation, and proportionately fewer seeds germinated for any one stratification treatment at the higher elevations. Seeds from higher elevations germinated to a higher percentage under the high than the low temperature thermoperiods. These results illustrates a significant variation in germination characteristics over a spatially short environmental gradient.
20050468|We studied responses of aboveground production, grazing by elk and the availability of eight elements (Ca, Fe, K, Mg, N, Na, P, Zn) in a Yellowstone National Park sagebrush grassland following a fire in 1992. We compared four areas of differing fire history: (1) an area burned in 1992, (2) an area burned in 1992 and 1988, (3) an area burned in 1988 and (4) an area with no recent fire history. The year after burning, graminoids produced more aboveground biomass on burned areas compared with unburned areas. Forages growing on burned soils were highly concentrated with all nutrients, except Ca, when elk grazed the site. Despite nutrient-rich forage on burned areas, elk consumed little forage in these areas. We hypothesized that elk ate less than expected in burned areas because of a large bloom of lupine (Lupinus sericeus), which may be unpalatable to elk.
40212942|Many examples of associational resistance have been reported, in which a plant's neighbors reduce the rate of damage by herbivores that it experiences. Despite 30 years of interest and hundreds of examples of associational resistance, we still know very little about how plants avoid their herbivores. This lack of mechanistic understanding prevents us from predicting when or where associational resistance will be important or might affect species' distributions. I demonstrate here that the plant neighborhoods that surrounded focal mule's ears (Wyethia mollis) individuals affected the damage they received. In particular, distance between a focal mule's ears individual and its nearest sagebrush neighbor (Artemisia tridentata) was a good predictor of how much leaf area the mule's ears would lose to herbivores over 2 years. Mule's ears close to sagebrush suffered less loss than those with more distant nearest sagebrush neighbors. Mule's ears with near sagebrush neighbors suffered half the leaf loss as mule's ears with sagebrush experimentally removed. This associational resistance was probably not caused by sagebrush attracting or increasing populations of predators of generalist herbivores. Sagebrush is known to emit chemicals that are feeding deterrents to generalist grasshoppers and these deterrents were probably involved here. Volatile chemicals emitted by damaged sagebrush have been found to induce resistance in neighboring plants of several species. However, I found no evidence for such eavesdropping here as mule's ears gained associational resistance from sagebrush neighbors whether or not those sagebrush neighbors had been experimentally damaged. Understanding the mechanisms responsible for associational resistance is critical to predicting where and when it will be important.
20146551|This paper discusses vegetation types and diversity patterns in relation to environment and land-use at summer farms, a characteristic cultural landscape in the Norwegian mountains. Floristic data (189 taxa) were collected in 130 4-m sample plots within 12 summer farms in Rldal, western Norway. The study was designed to sample as fully as possible the range of floristic, environmental, and land-use conditions. Vegetation types delimited by two-way indicator species analysis were consistent with results from earlier phytosociological studies. Detrended correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis show that rather than being distinct vegetation types, the major floristic variation is structured along a spatial gradient from summer farm to the surrounding heathland vegetation. Species richness (alpha diversity) was modelled against environmental variables by generalized linear modelling and compositional turnover (beta diversity) by canonical correspondence analysis. Most environmental factors made significant contributions, but the spatial distance-to-farm gradient was the best predictor of both species richness and turnover. While summer farms reduce mean species richness at the plot scale, the compositional heterogeneity of the upland landscapes is increased, thereby creating 'ecological room' for additional vegetation types and species. Within an overall similarity across scales, soil variables (pH, base saturation, LOI, phosphate and nitrogen) differed considerably in their explanatory power for richness and turnover. A difference between 'productivity limiting' factors and 'environmental sieves' is proposed as an explanation. Species turnover with altitude is relatively low in grasslands as compared to healths.
20147006|Positive associations between adult trees and understorey species have been explained either by direct or indirect facilitation. We tested both models by comparing the performance of two understorey species with contrasted stress-tolerance abilities Galium odoratum and Deschampsia flexuosa. Individuals of both species were transplanted in the four combinations of two treatments (gap and removal of an herbaceous competitor, Molinia caerulea). Our experiment demonstrated that direct facilitation of adult trees may explain the restricted occurrence of the shade-demanding Galium within closed forest communities. In contrast, the shade-tolerant Deschampsia was subjected to additional competition within the forest, likely because adult trees had a higher negative effect on light availability and a similar negative effect on nitrogen availability within the forest than did Molinia in the gaps.
40212860|Changes in species richness, turnover, composition and above-ground biomass of herbrich woodland were documented following fertilizer application and water addition over three growing seasons. Addition of fertilizer significantly reduced species richness relative to unmanipulated control and water addition plots after 3 years. This change coincided with significant increases in biomass, which were largely due to increased growth of exotic annual grasses. The reductions in richness observed in the fertilized plots were a consequence of both lower rates of local colonization and enhanced rates of local extinction of the resident species. Species loss was not random; native species were lost after nutrient addition whereas exotic species were not. Nutrient limitation was more important for species coexistence in these communities than was water availability.
40666569|Fungal pathogens can regulate the abundance and distribution of natural plant populations by inhibiting the growth, survival, and reproduction of their hosts. The abiotic environment is a crucial component in host-pathogen interactions in natural plant populations as favorable conditions drive pathogen development, reproduction, and persistence. Foliar plant pathogens, such as fungal lesions referred to generically as "leaf spot disease," are particularly responsive to increased moisture levels, but the manner in which the abiotic environment drives disease dynamics, and how these diseases regulate natural plant populations, is not fully understood. We investigate (1) the impact of ambient soil moisture and diffuse light on the prevalence of a leaf spot pathogen (Phyllosticta sp.) in a natural population of Polygonatum biflorum, an understory herb native to deciduous forest understories in the eastern US, and (2) the effects of the fungal pathogen on the survival, growth, and abundance of the plants. We tracked six P. biflorum populations and disease incidence, as well as soil moisture and diffuse light, between 2003 and 2005 in the understory deciduous forest of the southern Appalachian Mountains, North Carolina, USA. Results show that both the occurrence of P. biflorum and the prevalence of P. biflorum leaf spot disease are highest where soil moisture is intermediate and diffuse light is lowest. Disease occurrence depends upon plant presence, but it also adversely impacts plant survival, abundance, and growth. These results suggest that leaf spot disease is likely to impact population dynamics, which in turn vary as a function of environmental drivers.
20050426|The interactive effects of N-deficiency and enhanced UV-B radiation on growth, photosynthesis and pigmentation of rye were studied. The plants were grown for 5 weeks in growth chambers with high (700
20146461|We used aerial photographs to create a digital elevation model of the canopy surface of a 10-ha study area in a temperate old-growth evergreen forest. A topographic map of the ground surface in a 4-ha permanent plot within the study area was also drawn from ground measurements. The difference between the two elevation values (i.e., canopy surface -- ground surface) at each point in a 5-m grid was considered to be the canopy height, and a canopy height profile was constructed from these data. The canopy structure in the 4-ha plot that was estimated in this way was compared with that obtained by two ground observation methods, i.e., the canopy (vegetation) height profile method and the canopy coverage census method. Large gaps were adequately detected by the aerial photograph method, but small gaps were less often detected. Gap size distribution obtained by the aerial photograph method was similar to that observed on the ground, and was a function of gap depth. This study indicates that if a detailed topographic map can be made, the canopy height profile derived from aerial photography can be effective in analyzing the canopy structure of evergreen forests, such as tropical rain forests, over large areas.
23267477|In seasonal climates, rainfall patterns are highly variable across years, and can control seed bank dependent regeneration. Here we asked how changing the timing and duration of the wet season would affect the germination of the soil seed bank of a 14-year-old seeder-dominated shrubland. Soil samples, subjected or not to a heat shock, simulating fire, were set to germinate in a chamber whose conditions (temperature and photoperiod) were successively changed to simulate autumn, winter, and spring. Irrigation was implemented to produce three wet season treatments, varying its timing and duration: long (14 weeks of irrigation, during autumn, winter, and spring), medium (8 weeks, late autumn to early spring) and short (4 weeks in winter). Wet season treatments significantly affected germination of shrubs and herbs, as well as species richness and diversity, whereby the later and shorter the season, the lower these variables. Dicots were more sensitive to the treatments than monocots. The timing of the wet season was also important, as similar significant differences were found when only the first 4 weeks of each simulated wet season treatment were considered; the later the season, the lower the germination and richness. Heating the soil generally increased germination but few significant effects were found. We document that a change in the timing and/or duration of the wet season can significantly affect soil seed bank germination. We discuss these results in a context of shifting rainfall patterns under climate change.
24552032|We conducted field surveys in 807 quadrats to evaluate the elevational belts, boundary and richness patterns of ferns and lycophytes in the temperate region of central Japan. We analysed fern species assemblages at 100 m elevational steps by cluster analysis and tested the number of upper and lower boundaries for elevational intervals against a null model of random distribution of elevational limits. We compared the pattern of fern species richness along the elevational gradients in central Japan with patterns in several locations to evaluate the fern flora in central Japan in relation to the rest of the world. We recorded 261 ferns species in total, which is one-third of the Japanese ferns. We found clear elevational boundaries of fern assemblages at 900 and 1,800 m and three fern elevational zones, which corresponded well to the elevational limits of forest types in central Japan. The pattern of fern species richness in central Japan was an asymmetric hump-shaped pattern that peaked close to the sea level, with the peak of local richness at lower elevations than that of regional richness. We found that the peak of fern species richness along the elevational gradient in Japan was located at lower elevations than that of fern elevational patterns in several locations around the world.
20051187|We surveyed an old ranch (22,000 ha) in the eastern catchment of lake Nahuel Huapi (Argentina), representing both landscape and historical use patterns of the forest-steppe ecotone in the Andes foothills. The objective was to describe plant-environment relations and to develop a procedure to classify habitat types for conservation aims. Floristic and landscape variables were recorded in 72 upland sites. Vegetation types were classified with Two-way indicator Species Analysis and environmental gradients detected with Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Vegetation types were tested for environmental homogeneity with Discriminant Analysis. A key to classify habitat types was built out from the classification functions obtained by DA analysis. Floristic classification resulted in 7 steppe types and 4 shrubland/woodland types. Vegetation samples were placed along two main gradients, one related to topography and the other to the type of substrate. Steppe types occur in all positions of the topographic gradient forming a temperature-soil moisture continuum, but only (except one of them) on accumulated substrates. Islands of woody types are confined to relatively warm positions of the topographic gradient and to deflated, rocky substrates. This distribution pattern would be caused by frost sensibility of forest species, and by the different strategies of water capture of woody and herbaceous plants. Three pairs of plant assemblages were not discriminated, allowing classification of 8 habitat types out of the 11 communities. Undiscriminated communities (3 pairs) and misclassified samples (29%) were discussed as the result of disturbances.
20051255|Seed production and seedling dynamics were studied for 6 years (1992-1997) with particular emphasis on the effects of the drought and fire in a natural tropical seasonal forest at Mae Klong Watershed Research Station, Kantchanaburi, western Thailand. The number of seed produced and emerged seedlings varied greatly among years and species. Most tree species produced very few seeds in 1994 and many in 1995 and 1996, particularly, Shorea siamensis Miq. which displayed the most seeding habit. Some seedlings, Shorea, Dipterocarpus alatus Roxb., and Dipterocarpus turbinatus Gaertn. f., emerged at the end of the dry season (late April, after the first rain but when soils still have a low soil moisture content), while the majority of seedlings emerged at the beginning of the rainy season. After a fire disturbed the plot in April 1996, many species increased their seedling emergences, especially Berrya ammonilla. Seedlings of most species less than a year old showed a relatively low mortality in the rainy season, but those of Pterocarpus macrocarpus Kurz had high mortality. The mean survival rate for all seedling species in this forest was quite low (24.1%
40666575|Invasive plants have often been shown to possess novel traits such as the ability to fix nitrogen, access unused resource pools, or the ability to exude allelopathic chemicals. We describe a case of a successful invasion where the native and non-native species are very similar in most life-history characteristics including their growth forms, lifespan, and degree of summertime activity. Data from permanent transects suggest that exotic perennial grass invaders can establish into intact native-dominated grasslands, achieving cover values from 6 to 71% over several years. We also established a 4-year competition experiment to test the effect of each group the native and non-native perennial grasses on the other. Competitive interactions were found to consistently favor the non-native grasses: native perennial grass productivity was significantly lower in plots with exotic perennial grasses as compared to plots without exotic perennial grasses. By contrast, productivity of the exotic perennial grasses was not reduced by the presence of the native perennial grasses. These results suggest that competitive ability, rather than a unique trait, has contributed to the success of the exotic perennial grasses in our system. Management tools to control exotic perennial grass invasions are likely to negatively influence native perennial grass populations, as strategies that succeed against the invasive species may kill or reduce the native species as well.
20146752| We describe the long-term effects of a CO exhalation, created more than 70 years ago, on a natural C dominated sub-tropical grassland in terms of ecosystem structure and functioning. We tested whether long-term CO enrichment changes the competitive balance between plants with C and C photosynthetic pathways and how CO enrichment has affected species composition, plant growth responses, leaf properties and soil nutrient, carbon and water dynamics. Long-term effects of elevated CO on plant community composition and system processes in this sub-tropical grassland indicate very subtle changes in ecosystem functioning and no changes in species composition and dominance which could be ascribed to elevated CO alone. Species compositional data and soil C isotopic evidence suggest no detectable effect of CO enrichment on C:C plant mixtures and individual species dominance. Contrary to many general predictions C grasses did not become more abundant and C shrubs and trees did not invade the site. No season length stimulation of plant growth was found even after 5 years of exposure to CO concentrations averaging 610 mol mol. Leaf properties such as total N decreased in the C but not C grass under elevated CO while total non-structural carbohydrate accumulation was not affected. Elevated CO possibly lead to increased end-of-season soil water contents and this result agrees with earlier studies despite the topographic water gradient being a confounding problem at our research site. Long-term CO enrichment also had little effect on soil carbon storage with no detectable changes in soil organic matter found. There were indications that potential soil respiration and N mineralization rates could be higher in soils close to the CO source. The conservative response of this grassland suggests that many of the reported effects of elevated CO on similar ecosystems could be short duration experimental artefacts that disappear under long-term elevated CO conditions. 
41508777|The colonization rates of understorey plants into forests growing on former agricultural land differ remarkably among species. Different dispersal and recruitment largely account for the contrasting colonization rates, but different effects of the soil legacies of former agricultural land use on plant performance may also play a role. Seven herbaceous forest species were sampled in paired post-agricultural and ancient forest stands to study whether land-use history has an effect on the aboveground nutrient concentrations (N, P and N:P ratios) and biomass of forest herbs and, if so, whether slow and fast colonizing species respond differently. Results showed that P concentrations were significantly affected by former land use with higher concentrations in the post-agricultural stands. N concentrations were unaffected and N:P ratios were significantly higher in the ancient stands. Nutrient concentrations varied considerably among species, but the variation was unrelated to their colonization capacity. Six out of the seven species had higher biomass in the post-agricultural stands relative to the ancient stands, and the degree to which the species increased biomass was positively related to their colonization capacity, i.e., the fast colonizing species showed the strongest increase. Such differential responses to past land use may contribute to the contrasting colonization capacity of forest plants. Land-use history thus affected both the nutrient concentrations and biomass of forest herbs, and only the biomass response was related to colonization capacity.
41508792|Pollen limitation occurs when sexual reproduction is decreased due to inadequate pollen receipt. Limitation is usually associated with the quality and the quantity of pollen; still, most studies do not discriminate between the two. We used handpollination experiments and observations of floral visitors to determine the mating system and limitations to seed production of the Spanish endangered species Pseudomisopates rivas-martinezii. We tested for agamospermy, autogamy, obligated autogamy, cross-pollination and supplementation. The response variables considered were fruit set, seed set and viable seed set. Previous studies indicated that (i) the species exhibits extensive clonal growth, (ii) plants flower profusely in summer, (iii) seeds showed to be highly unviable, and (iv) no seedlings were observed in the field. We found that P. rivas-martinezii is predominantly self-incompatible, has an unexpected generalized pollination system considering its occluded corolla, and is limited by qualitative rather than quantitative pollen limitation. These results indicate that, in addition to other presumed environmental factors, the low seed viability of this self-incompatible species is due to pollen quality limitation as a result of reduced mate availability.
40305688|Patterns of coastal dune vegetation are closely related with soil conditions controlled by geomorphic forms and processes. This study developed a conceptual model integrating these relationships in a spatially explicit manner. A rectangle of 180 x 280 m containing 126 grids of 20 x 20 m was established in the Sindu coastal dunefield in west Korean Peninsula. Sampling from each grid determined 11 soil properties and identified percent cover of 21 woody and herbaceous plant species. Digital elevation models were generated by topographic survey and used to derive eight topographic parameters. Redundancy analysis and canonical correspondence analysis examined the effect of geomorphic factors on edaphic characteristics and the edaphic influence on spatial distribution of vegetation, respectively. The spatial pattern of soil properties and plant species were inferred from spatial interpolation techniques. In the foredune area, distance from the coastline was a significant indicator of soil nutrients derived from the marine sources by aeolian processes. This favored the dominance by Elymus mollis. Moisture-tolerant species (e. g., Calamagrostis epigeios) had high cover in the acidic soils of dune slacks, which covaried with wetness index, an indirect measure of the depth to the freshwater table. Vegetation-soil interactions (e. g., nitrogen fixation by legumes) were important in secondary dune areas, with topographic effects less significant. Vegetation, soil, and geomorphic factors are closely connected in a causal chain across a whole dune area. Our model thus addresses the importance of integrating foredune, dune slack, and secondary dune into one continuous system.
40305780|The optimal allocation theory predicts that growth is allocated between the shoot and the roots so that the uptake of the most limiting resource is increased. Allocation is dynamic due to resource depletion, interaction with competitors, and the allometry of growth. We assessed the effects of intraand inter-specific competition on growth and resource allocation of the meadow species Ranunculus acris and Agrostis capillaris, grown in environments with high (+) or low () availability of light (L) and nutrients (N). We took samples twice a week over the 7 weeks experiment, to follow the changes in root-toshoot ratios in plants of different sizes, and carried out a larger scale harvest at the end of the experiment. Of all the tested factors, availability of nutrients had the largest effect on the growth rate and shoot-to-root allocation in both species, although both competition and light had significant effects as well. The highest root-to-shoot ratios were measured from the L+ N treatment, and the lowest from the L N+ treatment, as predicted by the optimal allocation theory. Competition changed resource allocation, but not always toward acquiring the resource that is most limiting to growth. We thus conclude that the greatest variation in shoot-to-root allocation was due to the resource availability and the effects of competition were small, probably due to low density of plants in the experiment.
40305749|To predict the role of ombrotrophic bogs as carbon sinks in the future, it is crucial to understand how Sphagnum vegetation in bogs will respond to global change. We performed a greenhouse experiment to study the effects of two temperature treatments (17.5 and 21.7C) and two N addition treatments
40305791|This study experimentally analyses the response to simulated herbivory of juvenile Scots pine of two different ages in contrasting abiotic scenarios, focusing on the potential dual role of browsing ungulates: negative, by removing aerial biomass, and positive, by stimulating compensation capacity and providing nutrients by depositing their excrement. Compensation against herbivory was investigated by experimentally clipping a set of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L. nevadensis) juveniles, grown under different levels of light and nutrient availability. The responses analysed were survival, trunkdiameter growth, leader-shoot growth, increment in number of meristems, RGR, biomass of needles, shoots, root and whole plant, and root-to-shoot ratio. Clipping consistently resulted in a worse survival and performance of pines with respect to undipped ones. From the factors analysed, light availability was responsible mainly for the variations in plant performance, while the addition of nutrients was much less important. Age was also important, with older pines showing in general better performance after clipping. Overall, clipping invariably had a negative effect on Scots pine, since none of the combinations of abiotic factors used resulted in overcompensation. However, the intensity on this negative effect proved quite variable, from almost an exact compensation in clipped older pines under full sunlight availability to very poor performance and high death probability in younger pines in shade. Scots pine cannot overcompensate after clipping, but, depending of the environmental conditions, the negative result of clipping varies from severe undercompensation to almost exact compensation. Also, small differences in sapling age can promote significant differences in sapling response to clipping and light environment.
20146901| To examine the different effects of rain pulse size on uptake of summer rains by three dominant desert plants in field conditions of desertified grasslands on the Ordos Plateau of northwestern China, we studied relationships between precipitation event size and rainwater uptake using stable isotopes of hydrogen in plant and soil water. Four natural precipitation events that represented precipitation sizes of 5.3, 8.3, 13.3, and 65.3 mm in the summer were chosen for the experiment. The perennial grass Stipa bungeana, the shrub Artemisia ordosia, and the herb Cynanchum komarovii -- the dominant species in the communities -- were compared for their use of summer rains with different pulse sizes based on the changes in the hydrogen isotope ratios (D) of their stem water 7 days following each natural rain event. We found that S. bungeana and C. komarovii took advantage of shallow water sources derived from small (&lt10 mm) rain events, A. ordosia took advantage of deeper soil water recharged by large (&gt65 mm) rain events, and C. komarovii relied primarily on rain events of intermediate (10-20 mm) size. These different responses to rain pulses among species suggested that more frequent small rain events will promote the dominance of S. bungeana and C. komarovii, medium-sized events will facilitate development of C. komarovii, and large events will advance A. ordosia in this community. The rainwater utilization patterns of the three species would allow the coexistence of S. bungeana and A. ordosia or the coexistence of A. ordosia and C. komorovii in various successional serals following the disturbances. With an increase in variability of summer rain pulse size as predicted by climate change models, we expect that the structure of this community will undergo significant change in the future. Altered precipitation regimes, especially in combination with anthropogenic-related disturbances such as over-grazing, are likely to accelerate rates of degradation in northwestern China. 
20051075|An hypothesis is presented that provitamin D (dehydrocholesterol and/or ergosterol) can act as a UV-B receptor in plants and algae. We also propose that the proportions between provitamins D, provitamins D, and vitamins D (D and D), after calibration, can be used to evaluate UV-B exposure of phytoplankton and terrestrial vegetation.
40540369|Spatial patterns of vascular plant diversity were studied in an unmanaged temperate forest in northern Spain. Diversity in 102 plots of 400 m was analyzed against environmental and spatial variables. The Principal Coordinates of Neighbor Matrices method was used to create spatial variables that represent spatial structures on multiple scales. Variation partitioning on multiple regression was used to discover pure environmental and spatial fractions and their joint effects on diversity. Additionally, we created maps of the response and some explanatory variables to interpret their patterns. The results show that diversity is heterogeneously distributed in the basin and is explained mainly by environmental factors. Leaf litter cover proved the most important environmental factor. The spatial variables play an important role in structuring the environment but the low amount of variance explained by these when the effect of the environment is removed points to the lesser importance of neighborhood relations to the distribution of diversity values.
24553701|Subtropical forests in montane ecosystems grow under a wide range of environmental conditions. However, little is known about the growth responses of subtropical trees to climate along ecological gradients. To assess how, and to what extent climate controls tree growth, we analyzed tree responses to climate for 15 chronologies from 4 different species (Schinopsis lorentzii, Juglans australis, Cedrela lilloi, Alnus acuminata) across a variety of environments in subtropical forests from northwestern Argentina (2228S, 6466W). Using correlation and principal component analysis, site and species differences in tree-growth responses to precipitation and temperature were determined along the elevation gradient from the dry-warm Chaco lowlands to the wet-cool montane Yungas. Our results show that species responses differ according to the severity in climate conditions along the elevation gradient. At sites with unfavorable conditions, mainly located at the extremes of the environmental gradient, responses of different species to climate variations are similar; in contrast, at sites with relatively mild conditions, tree growth displays a large variety of responses reflecting differences in both local environmental conditions and species physiology. Our research suggests that individualistic responses to environmental variability would determine differences in the type and timing of the responses of dominant trees to climate, which ultimately may shift species' assemblages in montane subtropical regions of South America under future climate changes.
20051051|Fig trees (Ficus spp; Moraceae) are a common constituent of many tropical forests, where they produce figs that are eaten by a wide range of bird and mammal species. In our Bornean field site six Ficus seed dispersal guilds can be recognised, differentially attracting subsets of the frugivore community. Guild membership appears to be determined by figs' size, colour, crop size and height above ground, and frugivores' size, sensory and locomotory physiology and foraging height. Vertical stratification therefore appears to be an important determinant of fig and frugivore partitioning. The guild structure observed is discussed with respect to implications for seed dispersal and the differences between the canopy and understorey. Regarding figs eaten primarily by birds, larger fruit and crops can be found in the canopy where they are exposed to larger assemblages of potential frugivores than those presented in the understorey.
20146591|In many mountain regions, traditional agriculture and forestry are no longer economically viable and less intense land-use is becoming more and more widespread. Thus, the importance of understanding secondary succession in these abandoned systems increases. This study is based on a comparison of historic (1957) and present tree data (2001) from subalpine forest stands located in the Swiss National Park (SNP), where all management was stopped in 1914. The two data sets contain information on tree and sapling density as well as diameter distribution for all tree species present. Using time-series analyses, space for time substitution and multivariate methods (PCoA, minimum spanning tree analysis), we investigated if successional changes can be detected within the forest stands in the SNP. Our results showed that the stands studied are developing from a stage dominated by mountain pine (Pinus montana Miller) to a late successional stage dominated by Swiss stone pine (Pinus cembra L.) and European larch (Larix decidua Miller). This shift in species composition, which was observed in both the tree and sapling layer, was accompanied by a significant decrease in tree density (stems/ha). We also found that stand disturbances, such as fungal diseases, parasitic insects, ungulate browsing, windthrow or snow pressure, have not prevented succession from mountain pine to Swiss stone pine-larch communities. The minimum spainning tree analysis revealed that the sixteen observed 44-year-time-series cover at least 110 years of succession. This time frame is the shortest possible duration for a successional development starting from a 95 to 125-year-old mountain pine stand. The successional changes depicted in our study indicate how similar areas in the Central European Alps might develop in the near future when management ceases.
40305691|We conducted two experiments that investigated how the method and location of artificial defoliation influenced growth, reproduction, and allocation in canola, Brassica napus. In one experiment, 0%, 25%, or 50% of leaf area was removed by cutting circular holes at three possible locations: concentrated at either the base of leaves or at their tips, or dispersed throughout leaf blades. Plants fully compensated for such damage; reproduction and allocation were unaffected by either defoliation intensity or wound location. In a second experiment, we again initiated three intensities of defoliation: non-damaged plants served as controls, while others had 25% or 50% of their leaf areas removed. The method of removal in the second experiment consisted of cutting either multiple, similar-sized, circular holes or single, contiguous patches of a leaf blade. At the highest defoliation intensity reproductive output and allocation were significantly less in plants treated with the former method than the latter, even though an equivalent initial amount of leaf area was removed in both treatments. We conclude that simulated herbivory studies must account for not only how much of the plant is damaged, but also the pattern of leaf damage itself, since both factors contribute to a plant's physiological and ecological responses to grazing.
40540366|We examined the carbon dynamic across the inland water-land palm ecotones (morichals) of the Orinoco lowlands to increase comprehension of their potential for accumulating global carbon. Ecotone biomass was quantified for ecotones representing the flat-floored valley type with sparse woody vegetation and the V-shaped valley type with closed woody vegetation. The soil organic carbon (SOC) was linearly ordinated in a double logarithmic plot by the rank-ordering technique. The plot showed that there was an inflection point corresponding to the two sets of ecotones in flat-floored and V-shaped valley type. On average, a smaller proportion of the SOC in the ecotones was stored in the V-shaped than in the flat-floored valley type. As a result, the fractal dimension for the two ecotone groups was 1.27 and 2.67, respectively. The seasonal trend of aboveand below-ground phytomass in the flat-floored and V-shaped valley type showed a temporal increase. However, the seasonal increment was only significant for the flat floored valley during the second annual course. The net primary productivity (NPP) of ecotone in flood-prone and stream bed areas in the flat-floored valley type was 340-837 and 2,438 g Cm year, respectively. The NPP value for the stream bed in the flat-floored valley type exceeds the NPP of those reported for a wide range of ecotones. Depending on the annual hydrological dynamic, the ecotone of the flood-prone area ranged from carbon steady-state store-house to carbon sink.
40606970|Early post-fire vegetation dynamics following large, severe forest fires are largely unknown for the southern California mountains owing to historic fire suppression. Vegetation in 38 forest stands was surveyed (2004, 2005, and 2007) following the 2003 Cedar Fire in the Cuyamaca Mountains, Peninsular Ranges, San Diego County, California, USA. Each stand was sampled using four 10-m radius plots for the tree stratum, and 201-m quadrats for shrub and herb strata. Changes in canopy cover by species, origin (native and exotic) and life form were analyzed. 2007 data were subjected to clustering to examine the divergence in species composition of the stands with time. Shrub cover increased from 3 to 31%, and exotic herbaceous cover increased from 3 to 40%. Cover of native annuals had increased from 2004 (17%) to 2005 (33%), but then dropped to 15% in 2007. Forty percent of the stands were dominated by the shrub species Ceanothus palmeri, and associated with higher pre-fire conifer cover and fire severity. More than 50% of the stands were dominated by exotic annuals and associated with lower fire severity and less steep slopes. The remaining stands (< 10%) were dominated by chaparral shrubs and occurred on lower elevation, steep west-facing slopes. Species traits predict their dynamics following disturbance, as environmental conditions change. Establishment and increasing abundance of species dependent on dispersal to reach a site, including exotic and native herbaceous species, occurred in years 2-4. Differences among stands in species composition 4 years post-fire were associated with topographic and fire severity gradients.
20050941|The interaction of extreme temperature events with future atmospheric CO concentrations may have strong impacts on physiological performance of desert shrub seedlings, which during the critical establishment phase often endure temperature extremes in conjunction with pronounced drought. To evaluate the interaction of drought and CO on photosynthesis during heat stress, one-year-old Larrea tridentata [DC] Cov. seedlings were exposed to nine days of heat with midday air temperature maxima reaching 53 C under three atmospheric CO concentrations (360, 550 and 700 mol
23362480|We tracked seeds of European beech (Fagus sylvatica) dispersed by rodents in Gorzowska Forest (western Poland). We used two seed labeling methods, marking with UV-fluorescent powder and with plastic tags, to test whether using different marking methods influences results of seed tracking. The removal rates did not differ among seeds marked with UV-powder, seeds labeled with tags, and unmanipulated seeds. We found 78 % of removed seeds marked with tags, but only 25 % of UV-marked seeds. The consumption rates of tagged and UV-marked seeds were dramatically different: rodents ate 83 % of the former and 26 % of the later. The average dispersal distance was larger for seeds marked with UV-powder than for tagged seeds. Our findings suggest that the choice of seed tracking method might influence results of seed dispersal studies.
20050714|The effects of atmospheric pollution on two 10 year old Pinus radiata D. Don forests (Manzanal and Posadero) was studied in the Basque country, analysing the concentration of different nutrients and nutrient input via litterfall. Litterfall production peaked in autumn, and 97.5% of the litterfall consisted of pine needles at Posadero (the less-polluted area), whereas this figure was found to be 88.6% at Manzanal (the polluted area). Posadero had a higher production of litterfall than Manzanal due to the higher tree density. Nutrient concentration showed a similar seasonal variation over the year at both sites. Pine litterfall in the polluted area, Manzanal, had significantly higher concentrations of iron, copper, zinc, sulphur, calcium, sodium and magnesium than in Posadero, while the concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium did not differ between sites. Calcium, sodium, magnesium, sulphur, iron and copper input to the forest via interfall was significantly higher for the polluted area, but the inputs of nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium and zinc did not significantly differ between sites. Both sites showed high nutrient use efficiencies for phosphorous and calcium compared with other coniferous forests. The highest efficiency was for phosphorous, possibly due to the low availability of this ion in the soil. Trees at Posadero were consistently more efficient for calcium than at Manzanal due to the effect of pollution on the latter site. Molar ratios between aluminium and the basic cation nutrients calcium and magnesium in soil were higher at the polluted area, as a result of the increased inputs of anions to the forest soil (Al:Ca = 1.9:1 and Al:Mg = 6.9:1 at Posadero and Al:Ca = 5.7:1 and Al:Mg = 14:1 at Manzanal). The current pollution level of Manzanal is leading to a loss of cations that may cause future changes in the functioning of this forest.
20050442|Banded vegetation communities are known from semi-arid and arid landscapes in many parts of the world, in grasslands, shrublands, and woodlands. The origin of the distinctive patterning has been the subject of speculation, a common view being that banding evolves through the decline of more complete vegetation cover because of climatic deterioration or through grazing disturbance. A simple model based on cellular automata is employed to test the hypothesis that plausible mechanisms of water partitioning in spatially unstructured plant communities can bring about the development of banding. It is shown that without any climatic change or external disturbance, strongly developed banding can emerge from an initially random distribution of plants. Physical processes underlying the water partitioning, some of which remain unresearched, are discussed, and management implications noted.
40305613|The clonal plant Schoenoplectus americanus shows variable belowground clonal architecture as a result of producing two types of ramets: those with very long rhizomes (long rhizome ramet, LRR) and those with very short ones (short rhizome ramet, SRR). In a previous study we demonstrated that the two types of ramets are functionally specialised. The production of SRRs results in the formation of consolidated clonal patches with densely packed shoots, while the production of LRRs results in a more diffuse network of connected rhizomes with widely spaced shoots. We hypothesised that the two types of ramets would be produced at different times during the growing season because of their functional differences. The production of LRRs throughout the growing season would enable the species to continuously explore new habitats while the production of SRRs early in the growing season would enable the species to occupy and consolidate resources in available open patches. We evaluated this hypothesis through field observations in different communities with S. americanus and indeed found that SRRs were produced early in the growing season while LRRs tended to be produced over an extended period of time. Plants in high-quality environments (i.e. higher light conditions) produced more SRRs, and these were formed early in the growing season. In contrast, plants in low-quality environments produced more LRRs, and these were formed continuously over the growing season. We also observed that the shoot longevity was greater for SRR. In high-quality patches, the production of the lower cost SRRs results in a more rapid occupancy of open spaces; in lower quality patches, the production of LRRs throughout the growing season enables plants to explore the immediate environment for higher quality patches.
20146753|A combined field experiment and modelling approach has been used to provide evidence that ants may be responsible for an observed lower patchiness and higher plant diversity in the neighbourhood of ant nests, within Mediterranean dry grasslands belonging to the phytosociological class Tuberarietea guttatae. The hypothesis was that seeds occurring in clumps may have a higher probability to be harvested than seeds having a scattered distribution. In order to test this hypothesis, four analysis steps were performed. First, pattern of seed production and dispersal of four species was recorded; two of them were more abundant next to ant nests (Tuberaria guttata, Euphorbia exigua), whereas the other two were more abundant away from ant nests (Bromus scoparius and Plantago bellardi). Second, a stochastic model was developed to simulate the observed dispersal patterns of each studied species. Third, 10 seed spatial arrangements in accordance to the distribution patterns created by the model were offered to ants and the location of predated seeds was recorded. Finally, the observed pattern of seed predation was matched to models performed by different distributions of probability. Results showed that the probability of being predated decreased as distance among seeds increased. This preference of ants for high concentration of food items holds down the dominant species sufficiently to allow the subordinates to survive, thus increasing diversity near nests. The observed higher frequency of small-seeded, small-sized, or creeping therophytes close to the ant nests can be therefore seen as an example of indirect myrmecophily.
20146688|Juniperus woodlands are widely distributed in western North America. Few studies of seedling emergence, long-term survival, growth or mortality of the dominant Juniperus spp. in these woodlands have been carried out. Consequently, regeneration dynamics in these woodlands are poorly understood. Juniperus ashei is the dominant woody plant in the majority of woodland and savanna communities of the Edwards Plateau region in central Texas. We examined the emergence, mortality and growth of various spatial and temporal cohorts of J. ashei seedlings over an eight or nine-year period. Greatest emergence was found during the cool, mostly winter months and under the canopy of mature J. ashei trees. Emergence was significantly inversely related to temperature and significantly linearly related to rainfall, but only if the monthly rainfall and emergence were offset by one to four months. Greatest survival occurred below the J. ashei canopy, but greatest growth was at the canopy edge. Emerging seedlings were not from the current year's seed crop, but from one or more previous year's seed crops. Greatest mortality occurred mostly during the summer months and in the grassland habitat. There was a significant inverse logarithmic or exponential relationship between mean monthly temperature and mean monthly mortality. A large number of J. ashei seedlings or immature plants with reduced growth were found beneath the canopy of mature trees. These plants seem to serve as a seedling bank, providing the source of recruitment into the population should the overstory trees be removed. Survival of the two canopy cohorts with known emergence dates declined with time (negative exponential function) and was 1.0-3.4% after eight or nine years depending on the cohort. The pre-existing cohort seemed to have constant mortality (and presumably replacement), with about 8% of the population dying each year. Higher growth rates for seedlings were found at the edge of the established woodland canopy, which suggests that conditions in the edge habitat or possibly in canopy gaps are best for growth beyond the seedling stage.
40305580|Strong hints exist that belowground competition is generally size-symmetric. While this has frequently been shown by use of integrative indicators like growth or biomass, resource-focussed approaches are still lacking, especially those investigating the competitive effect. Here, we present a correlation between neighbour plants' root sizes and their competitive effect on their target plants' nitrate uptake. This was derived from a controlled field experiment where intra-and interspecific combinations of five different herbaceous species from nutrient poor sand ecosystems were examined in an additive design. Short-term pulses of N-labelled nitrate were applied between competing pairs of plant individuals. The sizes of neighbour root systems had high explanatory power for the competitive effect on target plants' nitrate uptake. Equally important, a curve fitting approach revealed that the competitive effect based on N-uptake matched predictions of a size-symmetric interaction. With 66% of the variation in competitive effect on nitrate uptake explained by 1 root system size, the degree to which root size results in a belowground overlap of zones of influence is crucial. Within this overlap, further attributes like architecture or uptake capacity may be important. Our data represent experimental support for a size symmetric competitive effect for a specific belowground resource. Since this is not consistent with an overproportional size advantage when mobile soil resources are limiting, it suggests that the survival of small individuals or species should be facilitated by the symmetric nature of belowground competitive effects.
20146973|The capacity of individual branches to store water and fix carbon can have profound effects on inflorescence size and architecture, thus on floral display, pollination, and fecundity. Mixed regression was used to investigate the relation between branch length, a proxy for plant resources, and floral display of Fouquieria splendens (ocotillo), a woody, candelabraform shrub of wide distribution in arid North America. Long branches produced three times as many flowers as short branches, regardless of overall plant size. Long branches also had more complex panicles with more cymes and cyme types than short branches; thus, branch length also influenced inflorescence architecture. Within panicles, increasing the number of cymes by one unit added about two flowers, whereas increasing the number of cyme types by one unit added about 21 flowers. Because flower production is mediated by branch length, and because most plants have branches of various lengths, the floral display of individual plants necessarily encompasses a wide range of inflorescence size and structure.
20050881|Changes in the size and age structure of the canopy of the leguminous shrub Retama sphaerocarpa in semi-arid south-eastern Spain were investigated by monitoring growth and survivorship of cladodes (photosynthetic stems) on marked shoots over a period of 26 months. Three basic morphological types of cladodes -- long shoots, short shoots, and secondary short shoots -- were distinguished. The canopy of the shrubs contained three annual cohorts of cladodes in spring and summer. The number and size of shoots produced each year was highly variable and was apparently related to the amount of rainfall during the preceding cool season. The spring cohort of 1994 produced only 37% of cladodes compared with 1993. Two cohorts of shoots were actually initiated in spring and late summer of each year, but the second cohort produced only 2-12% of the number of cladodes compared with the spring cohort. The proportions of the different cohorts in the canopy changed rapidly from April to August, but only slowly during the remainder of the year when only two annual cohorts remained after extensive litterfall in late summer. This late summer litterfall caused a substantial reduction in green canopy area (40-50%) which was achieved mainly be shedding of one year old cladodes. The life expectancy of cladodes decreased with increasing order of their morphological type from 850  25 days in long shoots to 563  4 days and 546  9 days in short shoots and second order short shoots, respectively. Flowering and fruiting took place from May to July, almost exclusively on one year old cladodes, and coincided with the maximum development of the canopy. Flowering intensity was high in 1994, when individual shoots supported a mean number of approximately 150 flowers. Shoots produced an average of 12.6  0.6 and 5.3  1.0 fruits per shoot in 1993 and 1994, respectively. Most of the annual fruit crop (80-90%) was shed during litterfall in late summer. A proportion of 10-20% was retained in the canopy for up to 12 months, however, with some fruits persisting for more than 22 months.
41508710|Plants have traits against herbivory that may occur together and increase defense efficiency. We tested whether there are defense syndromes in a cerrado community and, if so, whether there is a phylogenetic signal in them. We measured nine defense traits from a woodland cerrado community in southeastern Brazil. We tested the correlation between all pairs of traits and grouped the species into defense syndromes according to their traits. Most pairwise correlations of traits were complementary. Plants with lower specific leaf area also presented tougher leaves, with low nitrogen, more trichomes, and tannins. We found five syndromes: two with low defenses and high nutritional quality, two with high defenses and low nutritional quality, and one with traits compensating each other. There were two predominant strategies against herbivory in cerrado: "tolerance" and "low nutritional quality" syndromes. Phylogeny did not determine the suite of traits species presented. We argue that herbivory exerts significant selection pressure on these plant defense traits.
20050406|The effects of short wavelength solar radiation on aquatic ecosystems were studied in several marine and freshwater systems. The spectral distribution and the penetration of solar radiation into different water types (coastal and oceanic waters of the Baltic Sea, North Sea, Atlantic and Mediterranean) were investigated. Penetration of short wavelength solar radiation strongly depends on the content of dissolved and particulate substances as well as the concentration of phytoplankton. The primary producers often show a typical vertical distribution within the euphotic zone and are reached as well as affected by the penetrating UV-B radiation. The effect of this radiation was both determined in phytoplankton and macroalgae. Measuring pulse amplitude modulated (PAM) fluorescence indicated that major biomass producers were severely inhibited by surface radiation and even impaired at their natural growth site. Likewise, photosynthetic oxygen production was affected by extended exposure to solar radiation.
40540326|The directed dispersal hypothesis has two components: (1) non-random seed deposition by a predicted vector, which removes greater amounts of seeds to specific sites, and (2) higher seed survival and seedling establishment in these specific sites. Several studies suggest that ants perform both tasks. This study was designed to cover the processes from post-dispersed seeds to established juvenile plants of a typical ant-dispersed species. Our main objective was to determine whether Ricinus communis benefits from directed dispersal by ants to maintain its populations in previously colonized habitats. We examined whether there were differences between ant nest pile mounds and their vicinities in the: (1) densities of seeds with and without elaiosome, seedlings and juveniles; (2) performance of postdispersed seeds (without elaiosome), which may be affected by seed density, a key feature attracting seed predators; (3) nutrient quantities; (4) number of germinated seeds and juvenile biomass measurements; and (5) ant protection of seedlings from herbivores. There were more seeds without elaiosome, seedlings and juveniles in pile mounds, and seeds with elaiosome were equally distributed. There was no difference in the number of non-removed seeds in pile mounds and in their vicinities, and there was no tendency for this difference to increase or decrease with time or with initial seed density. Apparently, there was no difference in nutrient contents in soils of pile mounds and their vicinities. Likewise, there was no difference in the number of seeds germinated and in the biomass measurements of juveniles in both soils. Ants did not provide differential protection for seedlings in pile mounds against potential herbivores. The dispersal of Ricinus seeds by ants had a marked effect on the distribution pattern of the seeds, seedlings and juveniles of this species. However, there were no additional advantages for the seeds, seedlings and juveniles in pile mounds and, therefore, Ricinus does not benefit from directed dispersal by ants to maintain its populations in the study sites.
41508758|Tree-on-tree competitive interactions may be more important in affecting the distribution of the tree components of savannas than inter-specific competition with grasses. The presence of intraspecific competition is expected to negatively affect inter-tree spacing, individual size distributions and plant physiology as well as survival/mortality. In this field removal experiment on Acacia mellifera, one of South Africa's most common encroachers on nutrient-poor soils, the growth, water relations and mortalities of shrubs where all neighbouring woody competitors were removed (target) were monitored three times during each of three growing seasons. After 3 years, the nitrogen and carbon isotopic ratios of the study plants were analysed. Target shrubs benefitted from removal of neighbours, resulting in greater growth, less water stress, a relatively small degree of canopy dieback and reduced reliance on N fixation. Target shrubs grew by 25  4% in height relative to 7  4% for controls, with the targets suffering a maximum of <15% canopy dieback compared to up to 60% in the controls. Severe environmental stress is known to affect neighbour interactions among shrubs and competition may constrain shrub sizes and avoid density-dependent mortality. In contrast, release from competition in our study may have allowed greater growth of target plants, increasing their total evapo-transpirational leaf surface areas and leaving them vulnerable to drought and water stress. Intratree competition on shallow nutrient-poor soils in savannas may thus aid the persistence of bush encroachment by regulating the sizes of individual shrubs below the threshold of drought vulnerability.
40212933|Tree species can affect the soil they are growing on and this might influence their fitness. The New Zealand gymnosperm tree species kauri (Agathis australis (D. Don) Lindl.) which grows in mixed angiosperm-gymnosperm forests has a substantial effect upon the soil. We studied the hypotheses that: (1) low soil moisture availability below mature kauri trees hampers growth of kauri seedlings and angiosperm seedlings, (2) low nutrient availability below kauri trees hampers only angiosperm seedlings, and (3) angiosperm seedlings are hampered more than kauri seedlings by the conditions below kauri trees. We tested these hypotheses by planting seedlings of kauri and mapau (Myrsine australis (A. Rich) Allan) under kauri trees and applying the following treatments: removal of herbs, removal of litter, removal of nutrient limitation, and elimination of root competition of mature kauri trees. The results indicate that low soil moisture availability, or the combination of low soil moisture availability and low nutrient fertility, hampers the growth of kauri as well as mapau seedlings below kauri trees. The mapau seedlings are hampered relatively more than the kauri seedlings which might result in an increased relative fitness of the latter.
40305768|Permanent vegetation plots established in 1968 at the Baskett Research and Education Area (BREA) were remeasured in 2004/2005 to assess trends in canopy composition, vegetation-environment relationships, and regeneration patterns. Quercus spp. [particularly Quercus alba (white oak)] remained dominant in BREA forests. However, Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling Ordination of a dataset composed of tree importance values from both samples indicated the two most common community types (Dry Ridge and Slope; Mesic Slope) were shifted away from Quercus spp. abundance toward greater importance of Acer saccharum (sugar maple) in ordination space. Plots in glade-like environments shifted toward greater Juniperus virginiana (eastern redcedar) importance. Environmental analysis indicated that soil properties (pH, organic matter, Ca, Mg, and K) and slope position were highly correlated with ordination axes. Saplings of Quercus spp. exhibited greatly reduced abundance in the most recent sample and the reduction in Quercus spp. density was highest in plots with greatest canopy cover. While Acer saccharum saplings were still quite abundant in BREA forests, smaller sapling size classes were becoming notably depleted, reflecting growth of a cohort of plants established before the 1968 sample toward and into tree-sized individuals. Seedlings surveys emphasized that A. saccharum seedlings have become very rare in BREA forests, while Quercus spp. seedling densities are higher, but likely below those needed for eventual adequate recruitment to the canopy. Although a number of mechanisms to explain apparent A. saccharum regeneration failure can be developed, herbivory, recent climate trends (warming late-winter conditions) and increased litter layer depth are the most plausible explanations for the observed scarcity of A. saccharum seedlings. Although increasing importance of A. saccharum in the canopy of BREA forests appears inevitable in coming decades, longer-term trends are unclear given the shortage of seedling regeneration.
40305670|The dispersal of seeds through hydrochory can be an important driver of community dynamics and play an integral role in the colonization of restored wetlands. We assessed sources of seeds on the shoreline and in adjacent waters of the Potomac River to Dyke Marsh in Virginia. Drift-line samples were taken at 40 random points four times during 2005-2006, and water surface net trawling took place on the Potomac River from 2003-2005 using six, 200-m transects around the perimeter of the marsh. Seed supply through hydrochory and species richness was low at Dyke Marsh when compared to other regional tidal freshwater marshes. We discovered distinct temporal patterns, where high species richness and seed density were found in the fall for the water trawl samples but in the spring for the drift-line samples. High fall dispersal in the water trawls may exist owing to peak plant senescence and seed release, while high seed germination in the spring along shorelines may arise due to sufficient cold stratification of marsh seeds. samples. High fall dispersal in the water trawls may exist owing to peak plant senescence and seed release, while high seed germination in the spring along shorelines may arise due to sufficient cold stratification of marsh seeds.
20051098|Cell numbers and fluorescence of the green algae Selenastrum capricornutuum and survival of Daphnia magna exposed to simulated sun-light was assessed along a gradient of DOC (0, 1, 5 10 and 50 mg C <tex-math>$\text{l}^{-1}$</tex-math>). When exposed to UV-doses and spectral distribution (295-750 nm) closely resembling surface solar radiation during mid summer, Selenastrum showed major losses of cell fluorescence. In the absence of DOC, fluorescence was severely depressed, with successively decreasing effects with increased DOC. Surviving cells also required an extensive recovery period (10-12 d) for regrowth after exposure, while an almost immediate recovery was observed at concentrations above 1 mg DOC <tex-math>$\text{l}^{-1}$</tex-math>. For Daphnia, survival was reduced to less than 10% after 4 h exposure, and almost zero after 8 h exposure in the absence of humus DOC, while no effects were observed in treatments with 10 and 50 mg C <tex-math>$\text{l}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Selenastrum and Daphnia that were not directly irradiated, but exposed to UV-irradiated water with the same concentrations of DOC did not reveal negative effects. This indicates negligible indirect effects mediated by longlived free radicals or other toxic compounds. Irradiation of Daphnia under increased oxygen concentration (200% saturation) did not indicate acute effects, suggesting that effects of ambient radicals and oxidants would be of minor importance relative to intracellular photoproducts.
41686746|The differential adaptation of populations of the same species to their local environmental conditions through divergent selection, known as local adaptation, is a key step in the process of diversification of species. Here, we explore the local adaptation of the perennial mountain herb Helleborus foetidus to variable environmental conditions of seedling emergence and establishment at two different spatial scales (habitats and regions) with special attention to the role of physical and chemical soil properties. The possibility of local adaptation was evaluated under the "local versus foreign" and the "home versus away" criteria. Reciprocal sowing experiments were carried out by cross-sowing seeds among habitats and regions, controlling for maternal effects by means of seed mass, and recording seedling emergence and survival. Several topsoil properties were measured linked to each sowing point. Only partial patterns of local adaptation were found, which were insufficient to eventually state the existence of local adaptation at any spatial scale or under any criteria assessed. Here, we discuss how soil properties and selection on seed size may be related to the non-achievement of local adaptation criteria. Negative evidence of local adaptation seems to be due to a congruency in the selective pressures exerted by the different soil environments on seedling emergence and survival.
23500369|Cultivation legacies affect native vegetation in old fields of the Great Basin, USA for nearly a century after these fields are abandoned. We hypothesized that cultivation lowered soil nutrients and that this legacy would differentially impact plant performance of four representative Great Basin species. To test these hypotheses, we compared soil nutrients (C, N, P, K, Mg and Ca) between two formerly cultivated and adjacent noncultivated sites in two soil series. We then compared the plant growth and foliar nutrient content of an exotic grass (Bromus tectorum L.), two native grasses (Elymus elymoides [Raf.] Swezey and Achnatherum hymenoides [Roem. and Schult.] Barkworth), and a native forb (Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia [Hook. and Arn.] Rydb) grown in these soils in the greenhouse and in the field. Only one sampling site had reduced soil nutrients associated with cultivation legacies, where most of the negative effects on plant performance were found. E. elymoides appeared to be less affected by cultivation legacies than did A. hymenoides, which had a reduced survivorship and 20 % less above-ground biomass in cultivated soils. No species, including B. tectorum, were favored by cultivation. Our findings suggest that cultivation legacies can affect plant performance of different species in different ways and that altered soil nutrients may interact with other abiotic and biotic cultivation legacies in complex ways.
20146366|Vines depend on external support to prevent shading by neighbouring plants. Hence, it is important to determine whether shading enhances the phenotypic responses of vines to support availability. I evaluated the consequences of support availability (a vertical stake) on shoot and leaf traits of the morning glory Ipomoea purpurea (Convolvulaceae) under full sunlight and extreme shade. It was hypothesised that phenotypic responses of vines to support availability should be greater in the shade. In addition, to investigate possible constraints to such phenotypic responses, the correlations among phenotypic traits and the plasticity of such correlations were evaluated. The phenotypic variation of the main stem length and of the number of branches was consistent with the hypothesis, i.e. greater responses to support availability in the shade. In contrast, both internode length and leaf area (two traits that showed a significant and positive correlation) decreased in the sun and increased in the shade with support availability. Petiole length decreased with support in the sun but had no response in the shade. On the other hand, the number of significant trait correlations found in plants in the sun and supported plants was higher than those of shade and non-supported plants, respectively. Several of the correlations were significantly sensitive to the environment. Flowering only occurred in the sun treatment. Whereas no shoot or leaf trait was significantly correlated with flower number in supported plants, both petiole length and shoot biomass showed a significant correlation with such estimate of plant fitness in non-supported plants.
20050698|Methods are presented to relate temperature-residence-time at the soil surface, i.e., time above 150 C as an estimation of the severity of a fire, with measurements made during an experimental fire or on two post hoc measurements. The experiment was carried out in a shrubland dominated by the woody-legume Cytisus striatus subsp. ericarpus, in Central Spain. Temperature-sensitive paints, and steam-releasing open-calorimeters were used as fire-meters during the burn. Post hoc measurements used were estimations of heat output per unit area, and measurements of the minimum diameter of branches of Cytisus remaining after the fire. Time above 150 C was obtained from measurements made with thermocouples placed at the soil surface in 20 contiguous 1  1 m squares of the burn plot. All other measurements were made at each 1  1 m in the 22  3 m rectangle surrounding, and including, the thermocouple squares. Various simple and multiple regression models were constructed to predict time above 150 C from each of the four measurements made during or after the fire. Maximum coefficients of determination obtained for regressions were 0.61 and 0.62 for water mass loss from open-calorimeters and branch diameter, respectively. Using all the variables in a multiple regression model, time above 150 C was related to water mass loss from open-calorimeters and heat output per unit area with a coefficient of determination of 0.77. It is concluded that estimations of time above 150 C at the soil surface during the passage of fire may be possible based on simple devices, such as open-calorimeters, or on biological indicators, such as minimum branch diameters. Additionally, combining two methods (open-calorimeters, estimations of heat output per unit area) may allow the reconstruction of the time above 150 C during the fire at a scale of 1 m, an important characteristic of a burn to understand ecosystem response to fire.
40305495|Protection and/or establishment of forest plantation have been used as a management strategy to conserve and stop the deterioration of semi-arid Mediterranean grasslands ecosystems, producing a mosaic of vegetation types. This study was intended to investigate the changes in grassland community in response to protection and forest tree plantation practice as well as to explore the underlying environmental gradients responsible for the observed differences or similarities among these vegetation types. Two multivariate analysis methods including discriminate analysis and non-metric multi-dimensional scaling were used to quantify changes in community composition and attributes following different management practices (free grazing, protection with open grassland, sparse and dense forest tree plantations). This was investigated using species frequency, species abundance, or habitat characteristics. The study results showed that habitat types differed significantly between each other and were significantly separated using multivariate approaches. Discrimination based on habitat characteristics and species composition indicated that protection (or grazing) and light (or shade) explained more than 90% of the observed variability in community changes in response to the protection and forest tree plantation. Also, results indicated that shade effect can be attributed to tree canopy cover and/or litter accumulation on the ground. It could be hypothesized that protection from grazing and afforestation resulted in complex environmental gradients of which shade, litter accumulation as well as protection from grazing disturbance are major constituents. A careful manipulation of protection and afforestation can be used to create a spatially different environmental gradients leading to greater habitat diversity as well as a greater species diversity, and better conservation means of grassland in semi-arid areas.
40666583|The vegetation of the Paran River floodplain has physiognomic, structural and ecological characteristics that are distinct from those of the surrounding landscapes across the river (Forest, Chaco Savannahs, Pampean steppe). Few species are able to live in the alternately flooded and dry soil.The distribution of each species is strongly conditioned by the water regime in each area of the floodplain, and its location in the topographical gradient of the islands allows us to determine the possibility of colonising the bars and islands of the river course to determine their tolerance to hydrological variations and to foresee the changes that can take place as a result of disturbances in the hydrological regime. Here, we present the occurrence of willow (Salix humboldtiana Willd.) and South American alder (Tessaria integrifolia Ruiz et Pav.) in bars and islands of different topographies in a section of the Paran River downstream from the confluence of the Paraguay and Paran rivers. The results indicate that both species have similar niches in relation to hydrological fluctuations. However, willow was significantly more frequent at of 48.49 m a. s. L, while palo bobo reached its highest frequency at 49.29 m a. s. l. The difference between the modes of the distribution curves of each species was 0.80 m.Canopy trees such as willow and palo bobo are adapted to flooded soil conditions for 77.8 and 40% of their respective lives and survive with a longlasting inundation phase (306 and 366 days, respectively).However, many trees in the Paran River floodplain died when the flood period extended for more than 1 year.
20050500|A simple method for determining the optimum number of groups in a dendrogram is presented. This method uses the mean niche width of variables (A). This parameter is calculated for each partitioning level in the dendrogram and provides information about the degree of segregation of the variables in the obtained groups. The partitioning level at which parameter A has the minimal value provides the most contrasted groups according to their variables composition. The proposed method is independent from the number and size of plots or groups utilised in the calculation. These features allow comparisons among different classification methods (including subjective classification methods) applied to the same data.
20146761|Traditional diversity indices summarize the information about the relative abundances of species within a community without regard to differences between species. However, intuitively, a community composed of dissimilar taxa is more diverse than a community composed of more similar taxa. Therefore, useful indices of diversity should account for taxonomic relations among species. In this paper, a new parametric diversity index that combines species relative abundances and their taxonomic distinctiveness is used to quantify the way in which soil fertilization affects the diversity of a garigue community on ultramafic soils of Tuscany (central Italy). Results show that, while ultramafic soils generally host plant communities of limited taxonomic diversity with respect to similar communities on other substrates, fertilization significantly enhances the biomass production of species that are not exclusive to ultramafic soils. As a consequence, if diversity is measured combining species relative abundances with their taxonomic distinctiveness, nutrient addition tends to increase the diversity of ultramafic communities.
40607008|In the present study, a smouldering fire was reproduced in a substrate from a Pinus pinaster forest in the southeastern Iberian Peninsula. Experiments were carried out, in laboratory, using soil monoliths to assess the short-term fire-induced effects on germination, survival and morphological traits in young (3-year-old) specimens of Pinus pinaster Ait. The fire caused a severe reduction in the litter and humus layer relative to a control (unburnt) soil. A lower percentage of accumulated germination (29% in the burnt soil compared with 71% in the control soil) reduced final seedling density, and a lower seedling height was observed in burnt soil. Furthermore, the amount of biomass fixed per unit of leaf area and the concentration of foliar nutrients were lower in the seedlings grown in the burnt soil. However, the amount of biomass fixed per individual seedling was significantly higher in the burnt soil than in the control soil. The results confirm the observed lesser P. pinaster recruitment in burnt stands in southeastern Spain.
20050526|In the Andes of Central Chile, flowering commences 1-2 months earlier on equatorial-(north-) facing than on polar- (south-) facing slopes, and pollinator assemblages also differ between these habitats. In order to understand the potential influence of these differences on gene flow, we monitored flowering periods and insect visitation rates to flowers of 60 individuals of Anarthrophyllum cumingii (Papilionaceae) on two equatorial- and two polar-facing slopes in the Andes of central Chile (3335 S;7032 W). Flowering began about 30 days earlier on equatorial-facing slopes. Flowering periods of individuals on slopes with the same aspect had a mean overlap of 0.52, while those on opposite slopes had a mean overlap of 0.15. On equatorial-facing slopes Yramea lathionoides (Lepidoptera) accounted for 60% of the visits to flowers of A. cumingii, while on polar-facing slopes Centris cineraria (Hymenoptera) was responsible for more than 80% of flower visits. Average similarities of visitor assemblages among individual plants on slopes with the same aspect was 0.83, while the mean similarity between individuals on opposite slopes was only 0.23. Within slopes fluorescent dyes were dispersed up to 40 m from the donor plants, but there was no movements of dyes between individuals growing on opposite slopes, even when they were separated by less than 10 m. Synchronous blooming and a common pollen vector are necessary conditions for pollen exchange between individuals. The overall probability of pollen exchange estimated by multiplying the inter-individual overlap for both factors, was nearly 0.5 for individuals growing on slopes with the same aspect, and less than 0.04 for individuals growing on opposite slopes. Consequently, at equivalent distances, the probability of pollen exchange between individuals growing on slopes of opposite aspect is more than 10-times lower than between those growing on the same slopes. Seed dispersal cannot compensate for restricted gene flow through pollination, because seeds of A. cumingii were dispersed less than 2 m away from a parent plant. Presumably, restricted gene flow could enhance genetic divergence between populations on slopes of contrasting aspects. This factor could be important in contributing to the high diversity and endemism in the Chilean Andes.
20050774|Quartz fields are edaphically arid, azonal habitats occurring under different macroclimatic conditions in several arid regions of southern Africa. They are the exclusive home of 142 plant species of which ca. 70% are local or regional endemics. This paper is an analysis of the quartz-field floras and growth form-soil relationships in two quartz field regions: the Knersvlakte in the Namaqualand-Namib Domain of the Succulent Karoo, and the western Little Karoo in the Southern Karoo Domain. The Knersvlakte supported 52 quartz-field specialists of which 39 were endemic to the region. Corresponding data for the Little Karoo were 11, and 10 species, respectively. In both regions, the average canopy cover on the quartz-field relevs was ca. 8%, and more than half of this comprised contracted, succulent nanochamaephytes. Cover and vegetation stature were markedly higher on adjacent zonal habitats. Quartz fields in both regions supported a similar array of compact, subglobose and subterranean nanochamaephytes, as evidenced by convergent patterns in two distantly related genera (Argyroderma N. E. Brown and Gibbaeum (Haworth) N. E. Brown, both Mesembryanthemaceae), endemic to the Knersvlakte and largely restricted to the Little Karoo, respectively. Analyses of vegetational and edaphic data of quartz fields and adjacent, zonal habitats were carried out using multivariate direct gradient analysis (Canonical Correspondence Analysis) in order to identify those factors that control the peculiar composition of growth forms on quartz fields. The results revealed highly similar patterns of growth form composition in relation to similar edaphic gradients in both regions. In general, the soils of quartz fields were shallower compared to those of adjacent zonal habitats. In both regions, two different groups of quartz-field edaphic habitats, representing extremes of a continuum, were identified. Group 1 was characterized by high salt content, neutral to slightly acid soil pH, and low stone content. Group 2 was characterized by low salt content, low soil pH, and high stone content. Group 1 quartz fields are the most edaphically arid habitats and support the highest relative cover and diversity of subglobose and subterranean chamaephytes. The combination of reduced competition from larger growth forms, shallow soils and high soil salinity, represents a regionally unusual selective regime. Some succulent lineages in the Mesembryanthemaceae have undergone diversification which has resulted in the fine-scale discrimination of subtle edaphic gradients within the saline quartz-patch habitats. Reliable seasonal rainfall and reduced thermal stress have also played a role in the evolution of quartz patch specialists.
20051209|The aim with this study was to analyse the population dynamics of Saxifraga cotyledon, a rare, long lived herb, with semelparous rosettes. In Sweden, S. cotyledon grows in fragmented habitats at high altitude and is classified as vulnerable according to the IUCN system. From a five year demographical study we estimated population growth rates and extinction risks for one small and one large subpopulation. In the small subpopulation deterministic matrix simulations showed large variation, with two transitions projecting negative and two projecting positive population growth. The large subpopulation also showed large variation, but all yearly transitions projected positive population growth. In both subpopulations survival and growth contributed more than twice as much to population growth rates than did sexual reproduction, vegetative reproduction and the seed bank all taken together. In stochastic simulations the maximum likelihood growth estimator was larger than 1 for both subpopulations. None of the two subpopulations suffer from high extinction rates and although the effect of demographic stochasticity increase extinction risk in small populations it is enough with 70 individuals for a viable population of S. cotyledon. Hence, for the studied population of S. cotyledon, rareness per se is not a good indicator of vulnerability.
40212913|In order to assess the importance of seed dispersal (escape and colonization hypotheses), I used transplant experiments for seeds and seedlings of 5-11 plant species with fleshy fruits in a lowland tropical forest (Tinigua National Park, Colombia). I controlled seed density, distance to parental tree, and habitat type. I monitored seed removal, seedling survival, and seedling growth during the first year of development for an average of 554 seeds and 169 seedlings for each species. I supplemented the experimental results with measurements of natural recruitment. I found little support for the escape hypothesis during the seed and seedling stages. For six species that showed differences in seed removal associated with distance, five showed highest removal away from, than close to parent trees, suggesting predator satiation. Seedling survival during the first year was not consistently associated with low densities and long distances from parent trees. For the majority of species, seedlings did not survive flooding in low basins, and there was growth advantage for most plant species in canopy gaps. These differences imply advantages for seed dispersal to adequate habitats, as predicted by the colonization hypothesis. In contrast to experiments, strong negative distance-dependent effects were evident when analyzing natural recruitment patteras. The ratio between saplings and seedlings was higher away from parent trees for the species with enough recruitment to be analyzed and this suggests that a negative distance-dependent effect may also occur after seedling establishment. This pattern is suspected for several other species, but an analysis with some of the other most common trees showed a variety of negative, neutral, and positive distance dependent effects. This study emphasizes the importance of long- term studies to asses the role of seed dispersal.
20146905| Accelerating invasion of grasslands by woody species is a widespread global phenomenon. The native shrub Baccharis pilularis has recently increased in abundance in some California grasslands, with large local community and ecosystem effects. I investigated potential contributions of (1) future global climate and atmospheric changes and (2) variation in moisture and nutrient availability to increased Baccharis germination and early establishment rates. I examined responses of Baccharis seeds and seedlings to simulated warming (+1 -2 C) and elevated CO (+300 ppm) in a 2-year field experiment. Warming and CO treatments were applied at ambient and increased water and nitrogen levels chosen to simulate future increases in precipitation (+50%) and N deposition (+7 gN m y). Elevated CO and water addition each increased or accelerated germination. Herbivory strongly reduced seedling populations during the winter wet season; drought further reduced seedling survival in the spring. Overall Baccharis survivorship was extremely low (&lt 0.1%) across all treatments, complicating the interpretation of global change effects. 
40305727|Mixed mating systems often evolve despite strong inbreeding depression, but there have been few experimental tests of this observation. Kosteletzkya virginica, a. perennial dicot halophytic species of the Family Malvaceae, is native to brackish portions of coastal tidal marsh in the United States of America and was introduced into China in 1993. Pollination of K. virginica occurs through insect vectors and by delayed self-pollination via stylar movement. In the same two naturalized populations of K virginica during 2005-2007, we measured (i) inbreeding depression across a range of life-cycle stages, (ii) pollination failure rate, and (iii) selfing rate estimated by AFLP markers. Results indicate that inbreeding depression values for the two naturalized populations during 2005-2007 ranged from 0.620  0.036 to 0.656  0.032, and mean inbreeding depression was 0.640  0.006. Pollinator failure rates at the two naturalized K. virginica populations during 2005-2007 ranged from 0.091  0.039 to 0.174  0.061, and selfing rate ranged from 0.247  0.018 to 0.468  0.031. Population selfing rates are significantly and positively correlated with field estimates of pollinator failure (P = 0.008 < 0.01, R 2 = 0.857). Our data provide an empirical demonstration of a mixed mating system response to the pollinator environment in the presence of strong inbreeding depression.
20146499|Plant competition belowground generally appears to be size-symmetric, i.e. larger plants only obtain a share of belowground resources proportional to their size, and therefore do not suppress smaller individuals. The experimental evidence for size-symmetric belowground competition comes primarily from experiments with homogenous soil conditions. It has been hypothesized that the presence of high nutrient patches that can be pre-empted by larger plants can make competition belowground size-asymmetric. We tested this hypothesis by growing Triticum aestivum individuals singly and in pairs in containers with aboveground dividers so that competition occurred only belowground. Plants grew in either a homogenous soil mixture, or in the same mixture with a band of enriched soil between them. Initial size differences were generated by a seven day difference in sowing date. There was no evidence of size-asymmetric competition with or without soil heterogeneity. Large plants did not have a disproportionate effect on smaller plants, nor did they perform disproportionately better when paired with a small neighbor. Our results suggest that in heterogeneous soil conditions, roots of larger plants that reach nutrient patches first are not able to prevent roots of smaller plants that arrive later from obtaining resources from the patch.
20146609|Rubus alceifolius Poiret (Rosaceae) was introduced to the island of Runion in the southeastern Indian Ocean about 1850 and is now highly invasive. This bramble, native from southeastern Asia and Malaysia, has invaded a wide variety of habitats (lowland rainforest, mountain and submountain rainforest, Acacia heterophylla rainforest) from sea level to 1700 m. It is suspected to be monoclonal so, its remarkable success may be due in part to great phenotypic plasticity. On Runion, but, flower, fruit and seed production, the duration of the flowering period and the importance of the seed bank were found to be negatively correlated with elevation (50-1500 m a.s.l.). At a lowland site, fruit production in mature stands averaged between 30 and 80 fruits/m during 1999 and 2000. No fruit set occurred above 1100 m. This fruit production pattern was similar over two years. Although the number of leaves per unit area is similar along the whole gradient studied, decrease of fruit set in upland areas might be compensated for by an increase in vegetative growth. Temperature variation is very sharp along the elevation gradient and may control the fruit and the seed production. Fruit production allows establishment of new populations all around the island via bird dissemination. Once established, R. alceifolius maintains dense patches that can grow vegetatively. Our results may be relevant for eradication programs that should take into account variation in reproductive strategy in lowland vs. highland habitats.
40305710|In frequently burnt savannas, saplings face the formidable challenge of both recovering from, and eventually growing tall enough to escape from, frequent fire damage. The aim of this study was to explore how saplings allocate carbon to achieve these ends through carbon partitioning, storage and remobilization. Lignotuber total non-structural carbohydrate (TNC) concentrations and C values of Acacia karroo (Fabaceae; Mimosoideae) were determined in plants from two different juvenile stages. These were one year after a fire when the plant consisted of numerous leafy shoots or coppices ("coppicing" stage), and three years after a fire when the plant consisted of one pole-like stem ("Gulliver" stage). Gulliver lignotubers were found to have significantly larger TNC pools (150 g vs. 97 g) and larger TNC concentrations (33% vs. 24%, w/w) than coppice lignotubers showing that post-coppice Gullivers recharged TNC in the lignotuber. C values from the stems of plants in the Gulliver stage were significantly enriched (> 1%o) in C compared to both coppicing (P< 0.01) and adult (P < 0.05) plants.Changes in both the amount of stored carbon and in the C values indicated dependence on stored carbon reserves, and partially heterotrophic growth for initial resprouting. The plants appeared to use both current photosynthate and stored carbon reserves for growth of the Gulliver stem. The use of stored carbon is hypothesized to promote fast stem growth rates to a height where saplings escape fire injury.
40305508|Seedling recruitment is a multi-phased process involving seed production, dispersal, germination, seedling establishment and subsequent survival. Understanding the factors that determine success at each stage of this process is of particular interest to scientists and managers seeking to understand how invasive species spread and persist, and identify critical stages for management. To understand the factors and processes influencing recruitment of the invasive species Berberis darwinii Hook. (Darwin's barberry), temporal and spatial patterns of seed dispersal, germination and seedling establishment were examined. Seed dispersal from a large source population was measured over two fruiting seasons, and subsequent patterns of seedling emergence and survival within each cohort were measured. Seed longevity was tested under both natural and artificial conditions. Seeds were widely dispersed by birds, up to 450 m from the source population. Dispersal was essential to seedling establishment, as few seedlings survived beneath the parent canopy. Seeds were relatively short-lived in the soil under both field and glasshouse conditions, with few surviving for more than 1 year. Patterns of newly emerged seedlings largely reflected patterns of seed rain, but seedling survival was significantly affected by distance from source population, seedling density and light environment. These results suggest that recruitment of B. darwinii is dependent on dispersal of seeds to favourable microsites. Management priorities should include the removal of fruiting plants, and seedling control in highlight areas.
20146550|We characterised the climatic behaviour of 53 woody species in terms of the climatic factors that play the main role in controlling species distribution in the study area. Floristic and climatic data were obtained from 150 stands in sites under climatic control (i.e. eu-climatopes). The sampling strategy used allowed a reliable match between floristic and climatic observations. Different methods of frequency analysis and goodness-of-fit tests were used to identify associations between species occurrence and climatic characteristics. The species' responses were summarised by statistics describing ecological preferences and amplitudes, and species were grouped accordingly. A Gaussian response model was fitted to the abundance data along the main climatic gradients for selected species and response surfaces were derived by spatial analysis for a set of indicator species. Frequency analysis methods detected 42 indicator taxa for the Baudiere's Qe drought index, and lower numbers, 34 and 22, respectively, for the mean minimum coldest-month temperature and the daily temperature range in the coldest month. Goodness-of-fit tests revealed a lower number of ecological profiles with statistically significant deviations from equidistribution. We discuss the relative performance of the different methods and suggest that the combined use of statistical tests and frequency analyses may improve estimation of the environmental requirements of species. We also recommend using the species' responses to key environmental factors as reliable criteria in the definition of plant functional types.
20051135|High elevation Fraser fir (Abies fraseri) forests of the Southern Appalachians have undergone widespread mortality since the introduction of the balsam woolly adelgid in the 1950s. Resulting changes in ecosystem pattern and process (e.g., stand dynamic processes) have greatly affected floral and faunal communities. In this project, we integrated field observations, geographic information system topographic models, and 1988-1998 satellite imagery to analyze spatial and temporal conditions of Fraser fir and spruce-fir ecosystems in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Tasseled cap indices (brightness, greenness, and wetness) and associated spectral changes for Landsat TM digital data were statistically modeled by topographic variables. Spectral changes were recorded using change vector analysis (CVA) and spherical geometry at multiple scales: individual sites, local ridges, and across the east-west gradient of the study area. Significant relationships were found between elevation and observed spectral changes and among mountain sites representing the east-west chronosequence of adelgid infestation. Topographic derivatives were related to tasseled cap and CVA measures in summary statistics, regression, and correlation analysis, revealing significantly different mortality and regeneration pathways that were a function of topographic settings. Geographic variations of these vectors also detail the scope of east-west and localized upslope progression of fir mortality. The application of CVA provided the ability to summarize variation in spectral changes (magnitude and direction) and to ascribe measures to mortality and regeneration processes.
20050667|Because acclimation to canopy gaps may involve coordination of new leaf production with morphological or physiological changes in existing, shade-developed leaves, we examined both new leaf production and photosynthesis of existing leaves on shade-grown seedlings after exposure to a late-season canopy gap. Midway through the summer, we transferred potted, shade-grown seedlings of four co-occurring temperature deciduous tree species representing a range of shade-tolerance categories and leaf production strategies to gaps. Shade-tolerant Acer saccharum was the least responsive to gap conditions. It produced few new, high-light acclimated leaves and increases in photosynthetic rates of shade-developed leaves appeared stomatally limited. Intermediately shade-tolerant Fraxinus americana and Quercus rubra responded most, by producing new leaves and increasing photosynthetic rates of existing shade-developed leaves to levels not significantly different from gap-grown controls within four weeks of gap exposure. Shade-intolerant Liriodendron tulipifera was intermediate in response. In these species, the degree of shoot-level morphological acclimation (new leaf production) and leaf-level physiological acclimation (photosynthetic increases in existing leaves) appear coupled. Mechanisms of acclimation also appear related to intrinsic patterns of nitrogen use and mobilization, the ability to adjust stomatal conductance, and shade tolerance.
40305451|The abundance and species composition in the seed-bank and extant vegetation were investigated in a lakeshore wetland. The seed-bank in different layers at 5 cm intervals was also studied by using the seedling-emergence method with waterlogged and submerged greenhouse treatments. Thirtyfour species and 1788 seedlings germinated in the seed-bank, with a mean density of 1227 seedlings m (402600). Thirty-one species and 22261 individuals were obtained in the extant vegetation with a mean density of 1436 seedlings m (368-12632). The Margalef species richness index was 4.41 in the seedbank and 2.99 in the extant vegetation. Little overlap (14 taxa, 43%) was found between the seed-bank and the extant vegetation. The total number of species and seedlings that germinated in different layers was significantly different. The number of species that germinated in the surface layer (21 taxa) was not significantly different from that in the second layer (27 taxa). Only 39.2% of the total number of seedlings appeared in the surface layer. Our results indicated that a lakeshore wetland seed-bank with viable seeds and high species richness can be used as a macrophyte pool in degraded wetland restoration. Vegetation produced from such a seed-bank will have species similar to the pre-disturbance assemblage. The large number of viable seeds that we found conserved in deeper layers suggests that the most valuable macrophyte pools are conserved at depth. With disturbance, these seeds could be brought back to the surface, and serve as a reserve in recruiting the extant vegetation. We suggest using the sediment containing rich viable propagules in the actual reconstruction project.
20146977|The role of three thorny legume species as nurse plants and competitive relationships with columnar cacti were evaluated in a semiarid enclave of the Venezuelan Andes. Abundance and size of three columnar cacti species (Stenocereus griseus, Cereus repandus and Pilosocereus tillianus) under isolated shrubs of three thorny legumes species (Prosopis juliflora, Acacia farnesiana and A. macracantha) were recorded and compared with open areas. Using size-distance data we inferred the intensity of intra- and interspecific competition between both life forms in a "cardonal" (xeric zone) and "espinar" (mesic zone) of the enclave. Sixty-one columnar cacti were found beneath the three thorny legume species (92%), while only 5 cactus individuals were found in open areas (8%). Comparison of observed and expected number of cactus individuals shows that S. griseus and C. repandus are significantly associated with isolated shrubs of A. farnesiana and A. macracantha. Although P. juliflora contributed more than 40% of the total legume plant cover, the number of columnar cacti under its isolated shrubs was significantly lower than would be expected by chance. In all, 19 of 21 possible plant-plant combinations between and within columnar cacti and legume shrubs were recorded (espinar: 18, cardonal: 13, common combinations: 12). In both zones, intra- and interspecific combinations among columnar cacti species were relatively high (positive correlation between the sum of neighbour plant sizes and the distances separating them). Our results strongly suggest, at least for case of S. griseus and C. repandus, that these columnar cacti species require nurse plants for their establishment. The results on interference need still support from further research. We discuss the effects of plant-plant positive interactions on natural regeneration of these columnar cacti.
40212954|This study investigates the pollination ecology and related floral traits of the species Daucus carota subsp. commutatus in the isolated archipelago of Columbretes, E. Spain, where bees are absent. Two populations were studied: a small population found on a relatively large island (Grossa) inhabited nowadays by three people; and a larger population on a smaller uninhabited island (Foradada). The plant, found also in other rocky coastal enclaves of the west Mediterranean, is totally self-compatible, andromonoecious, exhibiting strong protandrous dichogamy and sequential flowering of umbel orders, with limited probability of self pollination at the plant level. Pollination on both study islands is carried out solely by flies, mainly by Eristalis tenax (Syrphidae), a long distance visitor and efficient pollinator, but irregular migrant to the archipelago; and Lucilia sericata (Calliphoridae), an abundant flower visitor but less efficient pollinator dependent on human and avian wastes for its larval growth. The small population on Grossa appears not to suffer pollen limitation. Seed set is reduced, however, in the large population on Foradada, which we attribute to the low pollinator capital of this island, which is too small to attract and sustain migrant hoverflies and where no human and avian wastes are available to sustain blowfly growth. We conclude that in isolated environments with reduced or unpredictable pollinator capital, long distance migrant pollinators, such as E. tenax, play an invaluable conservation and perhaps evolutionary role for the native plants. Because these islands have been always practically uninhabited we argue that the absence of adequate local pollinator capital is perhaps compensated by the selection of particular floral traits, which differentiate the study subspecies from other conspecifics. Such traits are: the exposure of nectar during male versus female stage to enhance quick pollen flow; the extended stigma receptivity period (up to 10 days) resulting in a total flower life span of up to 22 days, enabling an adequate pollen deposition on stigmas even under low pollen transfer rates. In this respect, the low flower sex ratio (hermaphrodite: staminate) compared to other conspecifics studied elsewhere may be also relevant.
20050811|The transition zone between forest and savanna is typically characterized by a dynamic patchwork of forest and savanna. We studied the woody plant species composition of 49 forest islands, 18 savanna, and 3 gallery forest plots in the Como National Park (Ivory Coast), West Africa's largest savanna reserve. TWINSPAN makes a clear distinction in vegetational composition between these three major habitat types but, nevertheless, more than 50% of the 292 species occur in at least 2 of them. The gallery forest is dominated by Cynometra megalophylla (Caesalpiniaceae), a genus known to dominate humid forests in other afrotropical regions. Ordination reveals four distinct categories of forest islands, (1) humid forests comparable to the gallery forest in their species composition, (2) dry disturbed and (3) dry undisturbed forests and (4) forests formerly inhabited by humans. Disturbed forests harbor more savanna species but also a distinct group of disturbance-tolerant forest species. Compared to other forest species, in this latter group we found an exceptionally high fraction of animal dispersed species (80% vs. 58%), while wind dispersed species or species lacking long distance seed dispersal mechanisms were correspondingly rare. This pattern occurs in spite of the fact that the frequency of wind dispersed species in general increases from dense humid forests to open dry forests and savanna. Species lacking long distance dispersal mechanisms are most abundant among those specialized on humid forests. These observations suggest that the species composition of forest islands is to some extent determined by the seed dispersal abilities of the different species.
20146607|During the early phases of biological invasions, both limited dispersal and habitat preference may contribute to observed patterns of distribution for non-native species. In a disturbed area of Everglades National Park, the non-native Ardisia elliptica (Myrsinaceae) does not occur in all habitat types nor is it evenly distributed among habitats where it does occur. One goal of this study was to determine whether the patchy distribution of A. elliptica may be due to differential effects of habitat on seed fates and germination. Screen mesh bags containing seeds of A. elliptica were buried in the surface litter of five habitats and were later sampled periodically over a three month period to measure seed germination, survival and death. Seed mortality and mean germination speed was higher in open exposed habitats relative to closed canopied forests. During the study period, which coincided with the dry season, there was no germination of seeds that had been placed in pine forests or in Schinus thickets that were highly disturbed pine forests. Because hydroperiod is a critical determinant of habitat type in the Everglades ecosystem, a second goal of this study was to determine whether water availability was correlated with seed germination and seedling survival in five sites where A. elliptica has invaded. Seeds were sown under mesh boxes and monitored for germination and seedling survival for ten months. Estimates of water availability taken as predawn water potentials on A. elliptica were positively correlated with percent seed germination but not with percent seedling survival. Additionally, pre-dawn water potential of A. elliptica differed among sites. This study suggests that differential water availability among habitats may have influenced the patchy distribution of A. elliptica in Everglades National Park. Lack of sufficient moisture availability for seeds in exposed habitats such as pine forests and wetland prairies during the dry season has contributed to its distribution. Because some of the habitats where A. elliptica currently occurs were pine forests and wetland prairies prior to disturbance, this study suggests that substrate disturbance and canopy formation have altered the soil microenvironment, favoring the establishment of A. elliptica.
40305572|Tropical upper montane forests usually comprise trees of small stature with a relatively low aboveground productivity. In contrast to this rule, in the Cordillera de Talamanca (Costa Rica), tall trees (>35 m in height and more than 60 cm in diameter) are characteristic for the upper montane old-growth oak forests which are growing at an altitude of almost 3,000 m close to the alpine timberline. For these exceptional forests, productivity data are not yet available. In this study, we analyzed litterfall and its components (tree leaves, litter of epiphytic vascular and non-vascular plants, mistletoes, twigs and other canopy debris) in three forest stands belonging to different successional stages and related seasonal changes in litterfall to micrometeorological variables. The studied stands were early-successional forest (10-15-year-old), mid-successional forest (40-year-old), and old-growth forest. The stands are dominated by Quercus copeyensis and are located at 2,900-m altitude. Total litterfall was highest in the mid-successional forest (1,720 g m y), and reached 1,288 g m y in the old-growth forest and 934 g m y in the early successional forest. Litter mass was dominated by leaves in all stages (56-84% of total litterfall). In the oldgrowth forest, however, twigs and small canopy debris particles (33%), epiphytes (6%), and mistletoes (5%) also contributed substantially to litter mass. Leaf litterfall showed a clear seasonal pattern with a negative correlation to monthly precipitation and highest values in the dry season (January-April). However, the strongest correlation existed with minimum air temperature (negative), probably because temperatures already dropped at the end of the rainy season, when precipitation had not yet declined and leaf shedding already increased. In contrast, litterfall of epiphyte mass, and twigs and other debris was mostly dependent on occasional strong winds. We conclude that the upper montane oak forests of the Cordillera de Talamanca are exceptional with respect to the large tree size and the relatively high productivity as indicated by litterfall. Litter mass was especially high in the mid-successional and old-growth forests, where the observed annual totals are among the highest recorded for tropical forests so far.
20050712|The importance of disturbance intensity and herbivory by cattle and white grubs, or the larvae of June beetles (including Phyllophaga fimbripes), to recovery of shortgrass steppe ecosystems in Colorado, U.S.A. were evaluated over a fourteen year time period. Disturbance intensity was defined by survival of the dominant grass species (Bouteloua gracilis) after an outbreak of root feeding activity by white grubs. Sixteen patches of vegetation consisting of four pairs of adjacent ungrazed-grazed by cattle locations with two replicates that were recently affected by white grubs were selected in 1977. Disturbance intensity was determined in 1977 by the area in each patch that contained live tillers of B. gracilis. Permanent plots were located both within and outside of each patch. Plant basal cover and density by species were estimated at time of peak aboverground biomass in six different years on each plot. Successional dynamics on patches was similar to areas affected by other types of disturbances, however, rate of recovery was faster for patches affected by grubs. Grazing by cattle was infrequently important to plant recovery, a result similar to effects of grazing on other aspects of shortgrass steppe ecosystems. Disturbance intensity was important to recovery of B. gracilis since tiller survival in 1977 was linearly related to cover in each year of sampling. For ungrazed patches, initial conditions were important to recovery of B. gracilis for as many as 14 years. For grazed patches, initial conditions decreased and grazing increased in importance through time. Changes in resource quality and a more uniform distribution of roots due to grazing likely resulted in more complete mortality of plants by grubs under grazed compared to ungrazed conditions. Persistence of shortgrass ecosystems in spite of disturbances with different intensities are determined at least in part by characteristics of disturbances interacting with the ability of plants to respond, and in part by the evolutionary history of the system. Although white grubs affect shortgrass communities infrequently, they have large and important effects on plant community structure through time, and represent an important class of disturbance defined by intensity.
20146737|Empirical evidence suggests that the direction and intensity of plant-plant interactions may depend on the favourability of the environment. Previous studies have mainly focused on steep gradients of environmental stress or disturbance, while the interplay of competition and environment has not been tested for subtle environmental differences. Here, we present results from a study on plant communities of temporary wetlands in East-German farmland. Due to yearly ploughing in autumn, the vegetation is composed of annual species. Flooding does not affect adult plants and the elevation on the gradient expresses differences in the length of the growing season rather than in disturbance intensity or severe environmental stress. We tested whether such subtle differences in environmental stress may affect the importance of interspecific competition by the dominant species. Two treatments were applied at two elevations: removal of the dominant species (Matricaria maritima ssp. inodora) and reciprocal transplants of the seed-bank of the two elevations. At both elevations, removal of Matricaria inodora led to an increase in total species richness and number of wetland species, but the effects were substantially stronger at high elevations. Removal and the elevation on the flooding gradient significantly influenced the plant community composition. In particular, the weed communities became more similar to the wetland communities after the removal. Transplanted weed species did not emerge at low elevations. While two of four target species had significantly higher densities after the removal at high elevations, none of them was influenced by removal at low elevations. This indicates that, consistent with previous studies from other habitat types, competition by the dominant species was more intense under conditions of low environmental stress. The overall results suggest that both flooding as well as interspecific competition are important in structuring the plant communities along the freshwater gradient studied.
20051235|Savanna community structure has been described mostly at the regional level worldwide. Quantitative descriptions of vegetation patterns and relationships with substrate characteristics at more localized scales have received less attention. Our primary objective was to examine the distributions of herbs and shrubs/trees along local topographic gradients in headwater regions of longleaf pine savannas in the southeastern United States. We also examined whether herb patterns were structurally similar to those of shrubs/trees along the same topographic gradients and whether patterns were correlated with edaphic factors. Abundance data were collected within quadrats placed along transects from upslope savannas through mid-slope seepage bogs into lower-slope shrub/tree zones within Louisiana and Florida. -flexible cluster analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling were used to delineate herbaceous species communities. Ordination was performed separately on shrub/tree abundance data. The herb-based classifications were also used to delineate shrub/tree communities, providing an indirect means of comparing herb to shrub/tree distributions. In Louisiana, three herbaceous communities were sharply delineated along elevation gradients of several meters and were strongly correleated with soil moisture. In Florida, three similar herbaceous communities were less discrete along elevation gradients of &lt 1 meter. In both regions, shrub/tree distributions were much broader and appeared less sensitive than herbs to changes in environmental gradients. Coefficients of variation indicated that, in general, herbaceous species were more narrowly distributed than shrubs/trees along localized elevation gradients in both Louisiana and Florida. Alterations of fire regimes (fire suppression, dormant-season fires) may have resulted in expanded distributions of shrubs/trees, but not herbs.
20050696|The effects of microhabitat differentiation on small-scale plant community structure in the Chihuahuan Desert were studied using multivariate analysis. The results showed that microhabitats (i.e., kangaroo rat mounds, ant mounds, shrubs, half-shrubs, and open areas) played a critical role in structuring small-scale plant community structure and maintaining species diversity. Annual plants were much more sensitive to the presence of differentiated microhabitats than perennials and winter annuals exhibited stronger microhabitat preferences than summer annuals. Species diversity was the highest on ant mounds while open areas supported the lowest diversity during both winter and summer. Biomass was highest in the shrub habitats followed by kangaroo rat mounds, ant mounds, half-shrubs, and open areas. Much of the diversity of these desert plants could be explained by the individualistic responses of species to the biotic effects of other plants or to disturbance by animals, or individualistic responses of species to differences in microenvironments.
40305503|Understanding the potential movement of genes from horticultural plantings into conspecific wild populations requires fundamental knowledge of pollen flow distances and of the siring abilities of genetically differentiated pollen types on local plants. We addressed these issues using Lobelia cardinalis, a native, hummingbird-pollinated species, which is available horticulturally both as wild types and cultivated varieties. Potential pollen and gene flow between relatively isolated populations were measured in an artificial array experiment. Potted plants were placed at discrete distances (50, 100, 500, and 1000 m) from either a local or one of three non-local potted pollen sources and scored for pollen and gene flow. Pollen movement was assessed with a dye analogue. The pollen source population did not significantly influence the results, but dye movement, fruit set, and to a lesser degree fruit volume declined with distance from the pollen source. Even at 1 km away from the pollen source, 20-50% of flowers set fruit, indicating substantial gene movement. Siring ability of four non-local pollen types on local plants was assessed by comparing paternity success when each type comprised 75, 50, and 25% of the pollen in controlled mixed load pollinations. Pollen type affected the percentage of non-local offspring. A cultivated variety of L. cardinalis showed poor siring success on the Virginia maternal plants at all mix ratios. Mating was random in mixes with Virginia pollen and pollen from geographically distant wildtype varieties. Finally, pollen from a neighboring county was significantly favored over local sires. These results demonstrate that pollen movement from horticultural plantings into native populations and the production of hybrid seed on native plants is possible in L. cardinalis.
41686754|Coexistence of N-fixing legumes and non-legume trees with grasses in African savannas results in intense competition between these lifeforms. We hypothesised that belowground competition might induce different nutritional constraints in N-versus non-N-fixing species. A field (HluhluweimFolozi nature reserve, South Africa) competition experiment with two N-fixing legume species (Acacia burkei and Acacia karroo) and two non-N-fixing species (Schotia brachypetala and Spirostachys africana) both with clipped grass and without grass was established. Plants were supplied with no fertilizer, or generous amounts of fertilizer (200 kg N ha, 100 kg PO ha, 7.1 kg KO ha) supplied as either 28-10 (N-K), P or a combination of these fertilizers (NPK). Regularly clipped grass suppressed growth (by more than 90 %) of both N- and non-N-fixing seedlings equally. Biomass accumulation of seedlings grown with grass and the grasses themselves responded positively to NK and/or NPK, but not P, although P-fertilization did have effects on foliar [N] and (N values of trees and grasses showing that plants accessed the fertilizer. Tree N values and foliar [N] were also modified by NPK, demonstrating access to fertilizer. However, the ameliorative effects of NPK on grass competition-induced biomass suppression were only partial. This may be due to ' nonresource competition' (i. e. root gaps) imposed by dense grass roots. The fact that nutrients were able to partially ameliorate the effects of grass competition, however, indicates that such ' non-resource competition' may be partially overcome by even more generous supply of fertilizers.
40305605|We have studied the underlying factors responsible for the heterogeneous ecophysiological status of a semiarid Stipa tenacissima L. steppe in a subcatchment of SE Spain by assessing population composition and habitat structure of S. tenacissima stands. To do this, we measured and estimated 18 variables (11 biotic and seven abiotic) in 15 plots randomly distributed in the subcatchment, and then zoned this area by plot affinity using PCA. This analysis produced three sectors determined mainly by S. tenacissima cover and soil depth variables. The linear relationship fitted between S. tenacissima tussock biomass and tussock density in monospecific stands (both logarithmic) indicated a curve close to  1, suggesting that the system is close to the maximum constant yield state. Ecophysiological measurements (gas exchange, fluorescence and individual leaf area index) were taken in two periods with different water availability in a representative plot in each sector. The intraspecific competition (inferred from the density dependence of green biomass) and rock outcrops were the main factors influencing the ecophysiological status in the study area. While, in the wet season, intraspecific competition regulated water consumption in zones where S. tenacissima tussocks (monospecific stands) are dominant, during the dry season, stands in zones with extensive rock outcrops and stone cover (tussocks in "soil pockets") had no access to non-rainfall water gains because of the adjacent bare soil, and so in these stands, gas exchange was lower and photoinhibition higher. This article stresses the importance of considering the connection between tussocks and bare-ground interspace in the functional and structural analysis of semiarid steppes.
41508719|We conducted a census of the rare pine, Pinus torreyana ssp. torreyana, to determine (a) its population size and whether it is stable, growing, or declining; (b) the spatial variation in population structure; (c) the spatial patterning of trees in different life stages; and (d) the environmental factors that are related to seedling recruitment. Trees were classified into four stage classes: adult (>160 cm tall with cones); sub-adult (>160 cm without cones); saplings (30-160 cm); and seedlings (<30 cm). Stem diameter was measured for adults and sub-adults, and height for saplings and seedlings. Stands were defined by spatial clustering of the tree map. Univariate and bivariate point pattern analyses were used to explore spatial patterns for adult and juvenile trees and identify potential stand development processes such as density dependence, dispersal limitations, and patchy recruitment. Logistic regression was used to analyze seedling establishment and survival in relation to environmental variables derived from digital maps. Earlier studies reported little or no recruitment. We mapped 5,394 individuals, and tree size had "reverse J-shaped" distribution suggestive of a recruiting population. However, population structure was variable among stands. The predominant spatial pattern detected for adult and juvenile trees was clustering at lag distances <10 m. Bivariate pattern analysis did not suggest repulsion between adult and juvenile size classes. Seedlings tended to be found close to adults and on certain soil types. This suggests that the clustered patterns resulting from patchy recruitment of juveniles persist over time.
20050928|The Fennoscandian birch population primarily consists of Betula nana, B. pendula and B. pubescens ssp. czerepanovii, the Mountain birch. Frequent hybridization between the Mountain birch and B. nana generates a wide range of genotypic and phenotypic plasticity in the subarctic birch zone of Fennoscandia. Phases of subarctic conditions prevailed during the Late Glacial in large parts of NW Europe, and palynological as well as macrofossil analysis provide some evidence for the occurrence of birch hybrids during these intervals. Leaves from genetically controlled specimens of Betula pendula, B. pubescens ssp. czerepanovii, B. nana and the hybrids B. pubescens ssp. czerepanovii  nana and B. nana  pubescens ssp. czerepanovii are investigated for their specific characteristics of the epidermis morphology. Frequency and size of epidermal cells and stomata reveal a close affinity of both hybrids to B. nana and allow a differentiation of the intermediate forms between B. nana and the Mountain birch. With respect to palaeoatmospheric CO reconstructions based on stomatal index, epidermal analysis shows that a possible occurrence of hybrids in fossil leaf assemblages has no profound consequences for combined species records. However, the significant differences observed in B. nana demand the separation of this species. A comparison of the cuticle properties of B. pendula and B. pubescens from Finnish Lapland and leaf material from The Netherlands reveals a divergence of the stomatal index that may be due to differences in day light length.
20146893|To investigate how the composition of wetland communities changes over time in response to altered light regimes, experimental communities of five Carex and four grass species were subjected to artificial shading (continuous or seasonal) in a three-year field experiment. Shoot number and size was measured after six weeks, and shoot biomass was harvested five times during the experiment. Communities were initially dominated by three grass species in all treatments, but subsequently, the Carex species increased and reached dominance in the control plots, whereas grasses remained dominant in the shaded plots. Shading had no effect on the biomass of communities or of single species in the first year. In the second year, community biomass was still unaffected, but shading reduced the biomass of three Carex species and also reduced species diversity. In the third year, shading reduced community biomass and all Carex species, but not species diversity. The greater shade tolerance of the grasses could not be explained by differences in morphological plasticity: after six weeks of growth all species had increased shoot height in response to shade by 40-70%. Grasses were hardly more plastic than Carex species. We propose that the long-term success of the Carex species in full light was due to a high allocation of biomass to belowground parts, which may have reduced losses caused by repeated harvesting of shoots (a simulation of management in productive wet meadows). Shading probably caused the Carex plants to change their allocation pattern, and thus prevented their progressive increase.
20146356|Overstorey shrub species are known to influence the composition of the understorey in Southern Hemisphere heathlands. Overstorey densities are susceptible to variations in fire frequency; thus, fire regimes may influence overstorey/understorey interactions and overall floristic composition. We compared patches of Banksia heath which had supported an overstorey during a fire interval of about 30 y with patches where the overstorey was absent during the same period, and tested for differences in species composition as a function of overstorey presence. Floristic composition varied significantly between overstorey patches and open patches. Most species were less abundant in overstorey patches, however some were more abundant. The relative abundance of species in relation to overstorey was unrelated to their fire response, propagule longevity or propagule storage location. There was significantly less biomass in overstorey patches compared with open patches. The effect of the overstorey varied with soil moisture. In a dry area, the number of species was lower in overstorey patches, with fewer herb and shrub species present compared with open patches. Fewer species were recorded in a wetter area, but overstorey had no effect on the number of species recorded. Reduced intensity of competition among understorey species in overstorey patches could be responsible for the higher abundance of some species in these patches. We postulate that full diversity will be maintained when the density of overstorey shrubs fluctuates widely over a relatively short period of time. This is most likely when fire frequency is highly variable.
20051119|Characteristic species of sedge-moss fen communities occur in constantly wet, nutrient-poor sites with a high penetration of light through the vegetation canopy. We studied the effects of water table depth and differences in light intensity on the performance of fen species. Three fen species (Carex curta, Viola palustris, Hydrocotyle vulgaris) and one species with a wide range of occurrence (Poa trivialis) were grown for 10 weeks in a sedge-moss peat substrate at 4 different water levels and 3 light intensities. In all species differences in light availability had a larger effect on biomass production than differences in water level. Under a light availability reduced to only 10% the root weight ratio of all the species decreased while leaf weight ratio increased. The biomass allocation ratios were hardly affected by differences in water level. For Viola and Hydrocotyle an interaction between the two factors was observed. Poa did not show particular differences compared to the other species. We discuss the results in the context of the establishment of fen species in riparian vegetation. It is suggested that the occurrence of fen species in the landscape is directly related to the availability of light, whereas the relationship between fen species occurrence and hydrological conditions seems to be an indirect one.
20050709|We studied stand structures and soil properties in an old-growth forest and two 30-yr-old second-growth stands. In the old-growth forest, the total density and basal area average 1566 trees &gt1.25
20051163|Foliar cover of plant species; grass, forb and total herbaceous biomass; soil P, K, N and C; and percent coarse fraction of soils were sampled over two years along grazing gradients from livestock water sources in three grazed Mongolian steppe ecosystems of varying productivity. Samples within each of the three systems (mountain-steppe, and desert-steppe) were classified into plant communities using TWINSPAN and species-environment relationships in each system were examined using CCA. Community classifications were driven by the presence/absence of ruderal species and highly palatable grasses in the steppe and mountain-steppe and by the presence/absence of salt-shrub or Caragana shrub species and associated Iris species in the desert-steppe. Ordinations were largely driven by soil nutrient concentrations, particularly P and K, in all three zones. Bulk density and percent coarse fraction to 10 cm were also important in the desert-steppe. Distance from water, which we assumed to be inversely related to grazing pressure, was a significant driving factor in steppe and mountain-steppe ordinations, and was negatively correlated with P and K. We speculate that elevated nutrient concentrations near water sources result from livestock redistributing nutrients in the landscape by voiding urine and feces in the areas where they congregate. Livestock may thus influence species composition in these systems both through the direct effects of defoliation and trampling, and the indirect effects of nutrient enrichment and depletion over the broader landscape. This hypothesis deserves further testing under controlled conditions.
20146817| Previous studies analyzed the importance of old leaves conservancy for wintergreen species plant growth only after early spring old leaves elimination. However, carbon and nutrient resources for growth could have already been translocated from old leaves to shoots during autumn. In this work, the effect of old leaves absence on the leaf mass per area (LMA, g m) and nutrient concentration of new spring leaves, shoot growth, and flowering was studied in Aristotelia chilensis, an Andean Patagonic woody wintergreen species of Argentina. Plants were studied after autumn defoliation (AD) or late winter defoliation (WD) and results were compared to those of undamaged control plants (CO). The new leaves LMA and mineral nutrient (N, P, K, and Mg) concentration values did not decrease in AD or WD compared to CO plants. Conversely, CO plant showed higher flowering intensity and shoot lengthening compared to AD or WD plants. There were not remarkable differences regarding the defoliation time, though non-flowering shoots grew in a lesser degree than the flowering shoots in WD plants. It was concluded that A. chilensis old leaves cohort is an important source to shoot growth and flowering but their absence does not affect the new leaves structure or nutritional status from early spring in either AD or in WD plants. New leaves formation probably is guaranteed by resources (carbon and nutrients) previously stored in stems or even in the buds containing the preformed leaves since March, by the end of summer. Provided the availability of complete resources for the new leaf flush independently of the old leaves A. chilensis would restore the carbon balance as soon as possible to resume the growth of heterotrophic tissues at normal rates. Endogenous response to counterbalance the old leaves absence on non-flowering shoots was more effective when there was greater lag time between defoliation and shoot growth resume. Flowering and non-flowering shoots compete for the available resources when A. chilensis have not yet expanded leaves and shoots supporting reproductive structures were stronger sinks compared to non-flowering shoots in WD plants. 
40666623|Plants can enhance their seed viability and survival through reducing the fitness costs of herbivory by satiating seed predators at either plant or seed level, or both. The former satiates with production of large crops while the latter with large-sized seeds, enhancing the probability of seed survival. We analyzed both types of satiation in the interaction between the Quercus aliena and the weevil Curculio spp in 2 years with different crop size and acorn size. Larger crop size seemed to satiate less effectively weevils due to higher proportions of the seeds were attacked in oaks producing more crops of smaller acorns. However, prematurely abscission of infested acorns in large crop year might compensate this ineffectiveness. Larger acorns in lean year well satiated weevil larvae, as a larger acorn size increased the likelihood of embryo survival and seedling establishment. Although effective satiation by larger acorns would be negated by smaller seed crops, the proportion of attacked acorns that survived increased with large acorn size in lean year. These results highlighted the importance of annual variation in acorn size of Quercus aliena in satiating and defending weevil larval prdations, consequently in successful seedling recruitment and establishment.
20050727|Emergence and establishment of Tsuga sieboldii seedlings were monitored for six years in an old-growth mixed forest in Japan, to clarify the reason why adult T. sieboldii trees are distributed only on convex slopes. T. sieboldii seedlings germinated on exposed soils without broad-leaved litter cover on both convex and concave slopes, but they died out from concave slope during the first two years after germination. Along a gradient from convex to concave slope, litter cover became higher and surface soil erosion became severer, and T. sieboldii seedlings died at the plots with severe surface soil erosion. Other environmental variables, such as relative illuminance, vegetation cover of seedling layer and soil water potential were not significantly different between convex and concave slopes. We concluded that the restricted seedling establishment of T. sieboldii to convex slope is determined by stability of surface soils and broad-leaved litter cover.
20146687|Many factors influence which plant species are found in a particular wetland. The species pool is composed of the species present in the seed bank and species able to disperse into the wetland, and many abiotic and biotic factors interact to influence a species performance and abundance in the plant community. Anthropogenic activities produce specific stressors on wetland systems that alter these abiotic and biotic interactions, potentially altering species composition. We simulated three common wetland hydrogeomorphic (HGM) subclasses in a greenhouse to examine the effects of two stressors-sedimentation and nitrogen (N) enrichment--on the performance of 8 species grown in artificial communities. Species establishment, height, biomass, and foliar N and P concentrations were measured to explore species responses to stressors and competition, as well as the potential impacts of changes in species composition on ecosystem processes. Species were affected differently by sedimentation and N enrichment, and there were differences in overall community sensitivity to stressors between wetland subclasses. Sedimentation generally reduced seedling establishment, while N enrichment produced variable effects on height and biomass. Interspecific competition had little effect on establishment but significantly reduced most species biomass. Sedimentation generally lowered community biomass, diversity, and richness, while enrichment increased community biomass. Establishment, biomass, and foliar nutrient concentrations significantly differed between many species, suggesting that shifts in species composition may impact ecosystem processes such as nutrient cycling and carbon storage. Phalaris arundinacea, an aggressive clonal graminoid, universally dominated all wetland subclasses. This dominance across a range of environmental conditions (sedimentation, fertility, and hydrology) has important implications for both restoration and predicting the impacts of human activities on species composition. Our results suggest that, in regions where P. arundinacea is common, restoration projects that establish communities from seeds and human activities that cause vegetation removal are likely to become dominated by P. arundinacea.
40305559|Red spruce can establish on abandoned agricultural land only from seed, unlike in logged environments where red spruce forests can establish from seedlings that survived the harvest. In this study we collected seeds from the seed rain and from soil cores to examine the abundance and distribution of the red spruce seed rain and the seed bank along a gradient from the forest interior to adjacent old fields in Greenwich, Prince Edward Island National Park (PEINP), Canada. In addition, we examined the temporal abundance and distribution of the seed rain through the seed-fall season. We subsequently tested the germination potential of red spruce seeds from the forest portion of our sites. Because red spruce seeds are usually viable for only one year, we expected the seed bank to be either very small or non-existent. We found 39 red spruce seeds in the seed bank, distributed over 13.1% of the sampled area; 37 of these seeds were definitely nonviable. From the seed rain, we collected 224 red spruce seeds, distributed over 29.4% of the sampled area; 213 of these seeds were definitely nonviable. Nearly all of the red spruce seed rain fell within the forest; differences in abundance among collection dates were not statistically significant. Our seeds had a low germination rate of 0.004%, in part because red and black spruce commonly hybridise in our study area. Despite the low rates of red spruce seed dispersal and viability, the presence of red spruce saplings in our two longest-abandoned fields shows that the species is able to slowly colonise some old fields in PEINP.
20146498|Two controlled experiments were conducted to evaluate the potential for vascular plants to germinate and establish in milled peatlands and to assess whether easily measured plant traits can be used to predict their probable success. Study species included twenty species of perennial herbs, shrubs and trees occurring frequently in undisturbed bogs or abandoned milled bogs in Qubec, Canada. First, a glasshouse experiment was performed to test the effect of burial under peat on germination and seedling emergence. Second, a growth chamber experiment was conducted to measure relative growth rate and other growth parameters of seedlings between 1 and 3 weeks of age. In the burial experiment, seedling emergence decreased exponentially with peat depth for most species examined. The slope of the exponential decline varied between species and was strongly correlated to seed mass. Seeds less than 0.1 mg in mass were most sensitive to burial. In the seedling growth experiments, Betula species had the highest absolute and relative growth rates, which may help to explain their prevalence in milled bogs. Relative growth rate (RGR) was not correlated with seed mass, however it was strongly correlated with leaf area ratio (LAR) and especially specific leaf area (SLA) of seedlings, except for species with seed mass less than 0.01 mg. Screening of species for seed mass and SLA should help predict their germination and establishment success or failure in milled peatlands and allow more directed interventions to favour the establishment of desirable species in milled bogs.
20050998|The development of a complete understanding of how plants interact with the environment at the cellular level is a crucial step in advancing our ability to unravel the complexities of plant ecology particularly with regard to the role that many of the less complex plants (i.e., algae, lichens, and bryophytes) play in plant communities and in establishing areas for colonization by their more complex brothers. One of the main barriers to the advancement of this area of plant biology has been the paucity of simple and appropriate experimental models that would enable the researcher to biochemically and genetically dissect the response of less complex plants to environmental stress. A number of bryophytes model systems have been developed and they have been powerful experimental tools for the elucidation of complex biological processes in plants. Recently there has been a resurgent interest in bryophytes as models systems due to the discovery and development of homologous recombination technologies in the moss Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) Brach & Schimp. In this report we introduce the desiccation-tolerant moss Tortula ruralis (Hedw.) Gaert., Meyer, and Scherb, as a model for stress tolerance mechanisms that offers a great deal of promise for advancing our efforts to understand how plants respond to and survive the severest of stressful environments. T. ruralis, a species native to Northern and Western North America, has been the most intensely studied of all bryophytes with respect to its physiological, biochemical, and cellular responses, to the severest of water stresses, desiccation. It is our hope that the research conducted using this bryophyte will lay the foundation for not only the ecology of bryophytes and other less complex plants but also for the role of desiccation-tolerance in the evolution of land plants and the determination of mechanisms by which plant cells can withstand environmental insults. We will focus the discussion on the research we and others have conducted in an effort to understand the ability of T. ruralis to withstand the complete loss of free water from the protoplasm of its cells.
20051045|Plants are one of the sessile components of the forest canopy, and consequently quantitative studies of plant components are more widely available than for some of their mobile counterparts. From a global perspective, several exciting and innovative canopy access tools have been designed over the past few decades that have facilitated the expansion our understanding of canopy plants. These include a network of canopy cranes, the development of the French luge (or sled), and the construction of walkways and platforms for access into different levels of the canopy on a permanent basis. At the recent international forest canopy conference in Sarasota, Florida (Forest Canopies 1998: Global Perspectives, November 4-8, 1998), many canopy plant studies were presented that illustrated the achievements in this field. As co-chair at this event, I present here some reflections based on my observations of the development of canopy research between the first and second international conferences. A selection of case studies from the conference presentations are cited in this review, including: tree crown respiration studies from the crane in Panama; epiphyte ecology from walkways in Peru; insect-plant relationships in tree crowns of the USA using platforms; experimental studies of epiphytes in cloud forests using single rope techniques; and epiphyte diversity surveys in Africa. Ideas for the future are also mentioned such as the novel concept of canopy farming of orchids in Costa Rica, the linking of canopy processes to forest floor activities, and the construction of canopy walkways to provide a sustainable forest economy instead of the conventional practice of logging. The integration of research with sustainable use of forests provides a conservation theme for future canopy studies. Such new approaches to studies of canopy plants are important, as scientists increasingly play a role in global conservation policies.
20147001|Alien species have many negative effects on insular ecosystems worldwide. We investigated Ilex canariensis post-dispersal seed predation by introduced rats (Rattus spp.) in relict forests of the Canary Islands at different spatial scales: among microhabitats within the same forest, among forest types within the same island, and among different islands of the archipelago. Seed predation intensity was very high (&gt70%) in all cases considered, irrespective of the spatial scale. We did not find significant differences between forest interior, edges or gaps, as well as between different forest types in four islands of the archipelago. Comparatively low predation intensity was found in El Hierro island, where more than 50% of the seeds survived at the end of the experiment, while highest seed predation was observed in Tenerife island. It is concluded that post-dispersal seed predation by rats, due to its extent and intensity, could have an important effect on Ilex canariensis recruitment, especially in successional areas where this light tolerant tree can naturally establish.
23267453|Seed predation and dispersal by scatter-hoarding rodents are key processes that determine seed survival, and thus, plant regeneration within forests. For decades, there has been much debate on the important effects of seed size (one of the most important seed traits) on rodent foraging preference. Furthermore, the possible selective forces in the evolution of seed size may be influenced by primary selectivity and how rodents treat seeds after harvesting. In this study, different-sized seeds from four species (Pinus armandii, Pinus densata, Abies sp., and Viburnum sp.) harvested by scatter-hoarding rodents were studied in an alpine forest in Southwestern China for two consecutive years. Our results showed that seed size influenced rodent foraging preferences, with bigger seeds being preferred over smaller seeds, within and across species. Rodents only removed and cached the larger seeds of P. armandii, and ate the seeds of the other three species in situ. Rodents are purely seed predators for these three species. For the cached seeds of P. armandii, significantly positive correlations were observed between seed size and dispersal distance among both primary and secondary cached seeds in 2006, but not in 2005. Our results indicate that among many coexisting species with widely different-sized seeds, scatter-hoarding rodents played important roles in the seed dispersal of the big-seeded species alone. This caching behavior could offset the limited seed dispersal of large-seeded and wingless species (P. armandii), in comparison with that of small winged seed species (P. densata and Abies sp.) and frugivore-dispersed species (Viburnum sp.).
20050796|Crown development was monitored for juvenile trees (4-18 m) of the canopy tree species Dicorynia guianensis and Vouacapoua americana in a tropical rain forest in French Guiana. A comparison was made between crown development in closed understorey forest sites (low light) and in canopy gaps (high light); development was expressed by plant traits at multiple levels of organisation. Dicorynia and Vouacapoua responded to gap creation at all organisational levels, but not for all traits. Both species increased their light interception efficiency in the understorey. Firstly, understorey trees produced relatively wide crowns because they did not favour the growth of shoots in the summit of the crown, as did gap trees. Secondly, they reduced self-shading (expressed by leaf area index) by lower sympodial unit production rates, lower leaf production rates per growth unit (only Vouacapoua), and smaller leaf size (only Dicorynia). The reduction in self-shading was weakened by other traits that had the opposite effect on self shading (e.g. longer leaf life span in understorey), and cannot be considered an adaptive response in itself. (3) Understorey trees of Vouacapoua reduced leaf display costs by producing a higher specific leaf area, a shorter space among leaves, a smaller leaf spacing to leaf size ratio, and a longer leaf life span. Thus, all traits contributed to the more economical use of carbon in the understorey. Dicorynia showed the same trends, but not significantly. These results suggest that light availability plays a major role in the development and morphology of trees through its influences at multiple levels of organisation within the crown hierarchy. The two species studied were rather similar in their response at crown level, while they sometimes differed in their responses at the underlying lower organisational levels. The response directions of some individual plant traits were similar for the tall trees studied here and small saplings studied elsewhere. Some of traits investigated here may not be important in the crown level responses of smaller seedlings and saplings, while they are important mechanisms for crown level responses in taller trees.
40305630|To examine whether the Janzen-Connell mechanism applies to temperate forests, seedling survival and causes of mortality were investigated at two distances (beneath, far) from conspecific adults and at two densities (high, low) at each distance for seedlings (n = 7935) of eight tree species co-occurring in a hardwood forest. Six of the eight species showed distance-and/or density-dependent seedling mortality mainly caused by diseases and rodents. In four of the five species primarily killed by disease (i.e. damping-off, blight, rot, powdery mildew), the infectivity (probability of infection by the disease) and/or the virulence (proportion of seedlings killed to those infected by the disease) were higher beneath than far from conspecific adults. These findings suggest that host specificity and/or spatially heterogeneous activity of natural enemies play an important role in the reciprocal replacement of tree species, maintaining species diversity in temperate forests.
20050875|Tidal channels influence the distribution and composition of salt marsh vegetation in a San Francisco Bay salt marsh. Two channel networks in the Petaluma Marsh, Sonoma County, CA, were mapped and characterized using global positioning and geographic information systems. Plant species abundance was sampled on transects placed perpendicular to and extending away from the channel banks. The vegetation showed significant increases in species richness along channel banks and larger areas of effect which increased approximately linearly with channel size. Composition of species assemblages varies with distance from the channel bank and channel size. These results demonstrate that salt marsh plant assemblages, composed of both major and minor species, are distributed with respect to the channel network in Petaluma Marsh.
41508800|Soil is one of the environmental elements to influence Cerrado vegetation. Aluminum toxicity of Cerrado soils is well known, but the importance of water availability is still to be understood, especially in Cerrado under wetter climates. We studied the association between Cerrado physiognomies (cerrado sensu stricto and cerrado) and morphological, chemical, physical, and physical-hydrical soil attributes at southwestern So Paulo State, Brazil. Characterization of soil morphology, classification and sample collection for particle-size distribution, and chemical and water-retention analyses were carried out in 15 permanent plots, where vegetation was characterized floristically and structurally. Simple correlation and canonical correspondence analyses were performed with soil data. Classification of soils (U.S. Soil Taxonomy) with very low clay contents was not able to separate soils under cerraddoforestry physiognomyfrom those under cerrado sensu strictosavannic physiognomy, even though it tends to distinguish soils under greater biomass from those under lower biomass physiognomies. High soil acidity of all studied soils and increased at the sites with greater contents of organic matter, mainly with the cerrado physiognomy, precluded Al toxicity as a cause of the physiognomic gradient within Cerrado. Clay content, microporosity, and residual and saturation moisture were the most significant soil attributes to correlate directly with the cerrado physiognomy, indicating that water availability is the main factor explaining the physiognomic gradient of Cerrado vegetation in a local scale, where climate and soil fertility do not vary spatially.
23500340|In this study, we inquire into the effects of short-term goat grazing abandonment on plant species and functional composition, bare ground and net primary productivity (NPP) in two traditionally grazed pastures located in the Canarian Network of Natural Protected Areas and the Natura 2000 Network. In addition, we analyse soil chemical properties, biomass tannin content and energetic value to find out how grazing abandonment affects soil fertility and forage quality of these agroecosystems. Grazing exclusion effects on plant species and functional composition, as well as on soil fertility depended on the productivity of the studied pasture. Erect forbs and shrubs (endemic to Macaronesian region and native) were favoured by grazing removal in the most productive pasture, while soil fertility decreased in the driest and least productive site. An increase in NPP after exclusion was consistent among study sites. Although we consider goat grazing as necessary for maintaining traditional agroecosystems, we also suggest controlling it over time, allowing some periods of rest to give endemic shrub species time to recover from near propagule sources.
20146610| A lattice model is used to study the influence of the shape of forest fragments on the augmentation process of a tree population following clear-cutting. Two fragments of different shapes, squarish and linear, were studied without seed immigration from the outside. Both fragments consisted initially of two patches, a 4-ha clear-cut area and a 1-ha remnant forest, mimicking a common forest management regime in Japan. Stochastic simulations using the model reveal several differences in the dynamics and equilibrium structure of the tree population between the fragments. In the squarish fragment, the forest structure reached an equilibrium state in 500-600 years, but the linear fragment took 2100-2400 years. At equilibrium, the proportion of treeless area was significantly larger in the linear fragment than in the squarish fragment. The mean area of gaps was also larger in the linear fragment. The population expansion rate from the remnant forest into the cleared area differed significantly between the two fragments: 0.63 m year in the squarish fragment, and 0.43 m year in the linear fragment. These differences are explained as arising from the spatial configuration of seed dispersal: in the linear fragment, the density of seedlings was lower by half than in the squarish fragment, because a greater proportion of seeds produced within the linear fragment were deposited outside the fragment and were lost. However, the density effect (i.e., one-sided competition among trees) mitigates the negative impact of dispersal loss on the adult population density at equilibrium. Forest fragments with linear shapes should be preferred by fugitive light-demanding species in forested landscapes. 
20051283|The landscapes of the French island of Corsica are the result of the grazing tradition which has always occupied a pivotal position in the island's economy. Furthermore, in the last fifty years, a reduction in the pressure from human activity has lead to changes in plant cover. This article intends to study the evolution of dynamic mechanisms during the secondary successions and the effect of changes in vegetation on plant diversity. Our study was based on a simultaneous study of 375 plots carried out between May and September from 1996 to 1998. We studied the floristic composition of each stage both qualitatively (life form, adaptive strategy and seed dispersal mode) and quantitatively (species richness, equitability, Shannon index). The results show a change in species and environmental conditions, with a progressive move from helipphilic grassland and low shrub species with an S or SR strategy, anemochoric and with a high tolerance for soil quality to a final stage of dense forest composed of competitive (C or CS) zoochoric or barochoric phanerophytes. Moreover, the turning point in Corsica in terms of floristic diversity lies between 20 and 55 years after land abandonment. Successions are due to a series of rapid interactions. Thus, when a site is given reserve or protected area status, we need to take into account the fact that it will evolve according to the biological traits of the species. From a research point of view, we need to look at process diversity and the role of each of the species present during the successions.
40212911|Plant species invasions, i.e., the entry of additional plant species into a habitat with negative effects on species already there, are a major ecological problem in natural habitats and a major economic problem in agricultural habitats. Nutrient availability, disturbance, and proximity to other habitats are likely factors that may interact to control invasion in both types of habitat. We hypothesized (1) that elevated nutrient availability can promote the abundance of introduced species even when high cover of the existing plant Community is maintained, and (2) that higher levels of invasion on the edges than in the interiors of habitats are due to differences in resource availability between edges and interiors. To test these hypotheses, we measured soil characteristics and the abundances of plant species in natural and agricultural cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.) bogs in southeastern Massachusetts. Contrary to the first hypothesis, agricultural bogs did not have higher cover or richness of introduced species than natural bogs, despite having higher levels of soil nutrients. Contrary to the second hypothesis, the edges of both agricultural and natural bogs had a higher cover and richness of introduced species than the interiors, even though only natural bogs showed differences in resource availabilities between edges and interiors. Results suggest that having a high cover of existing species can counter positive effects of elevated nutrients on the spread of introduced and non-crop species. However, maintaining similar resource availabilities on the edges and interiors of habitats may not prevent greater invasion of edges. Avoiding disturbances to natural communities, maintaining high crop cover, and focusing active control of introduced or non-crop species on the edges of habitats could help limit plant invasions into natural and agricultural habitats alike.
20050907|A demographic investigation was conducted to assess variation in life history of Polymnia canadensis (Asteraceae), a geographically-widespread, herbaceous species of deciduous forests in eastern North America. During 1985-1994, 23,063 seedlings of P. canadensis were monitored at five central Kentucky study sites. Numbers at the end were: biennials, 554; triennials, 142; winter annuals, 16; monocarpic perennials, 2; tricarpic perennials (three years), 3; and dicarpic perennials (some skipped years) that matured in the first year of life, 23; in the second year, 60; and in the third year, 9. Weekly cohorts of P. canadensis generally exhibited Deevey Type III survivorship with highest seedling mortality in summer associated with low soil moisture. Wide spatial variation in life history was displayed by the fact that fall germination cohorts at dry sites generally had greater germination and survivorship than at mesic sites during seedling establishment, while the reverse was true for spring cohorts. This led to more reproductive individuals in fall germination cohorts than spring cohorts at dry sites and generally the opposite case at mesic sites. Forest shade in mesic sites caused slower growth and a greater frequency of longer-lived reproductive individuals than in open, dry sites, but it also resulted in higher survivorship than at dry sites during moderate drought. Annual population growth rate averaged across four years was not significantly different between a dry site and mesic site, indicating that despite forest shade, P. canadensis persisted in the mesic site as well as it did in the dry site. Population structure varied among years, seasons, and study sites; at two study plots, a 2-year flowering cycle of mass seeding and senescence persisted for 4 years. At a smaller scale, there was little difference in survivorship between study plots within sites or between quadrats within study plots, while in a few instances there were large differences in the number of reproductive individuals. Weekly cohorts that germinated early within seasonal cohorts had greater number of reproductive individuals than later weekly cohorts, but not consistently greater survivorship. Several droughts induced temporal variation that was as important as spatial variation. During these droughts, the population size of all cohorts that germinated prior to the droughts declined to zero at all sites, and biennials were the longest lived type of reproductive individuals. During drought, Deevey Type I survivorship was prevalent, and lack of seed rain led to dependence on persistent seed banks for recruitment in some seasonal cohorts.
41508766|Topographic variations and disturbances are key sources of spatial heterogeneity in the ecosystem and may influence its functioning, productivity, and carbon (C) storage. In water controlled ecosystems, structural and functional heterogeneity become distinct during drought when the ecosystem processes are operating at their limits. We examined spatial heterogeneity arising from grazing, abandoned cropland, presence of Acacia trees, and termite mounds (termitaria). Soil water content (SWC) was significantly (P < 0.05) higher in termitaria and fenced (un-grazed) plots. Higher soil nitrogen (N) content occurred in the Acacia, termitaria, and fenced plots while total biomass was highest in the fenced plot. The termitaria plots showed the highest net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE), ecosystem respiration (R eco ), and gross primary production (GPP) and were the only plots that were net CO sinks. Except in fenced plots, maximum GPP was positively correlated with SWC and green biomass in all the other plots. Green biomass and R eco were positively correlated with SWC. Shifting cultivation (abandoned farmlands) negatively affected soil quality, ecosystem CO assimilation, and productivity. Removal of grazing (cattle) from the ecosystem negatively influenced GPP, while the presence of termitaria and Acacia trees facilitated soil water and N availability and ecosystem productivity. We concluded that soil water availability was responsible for most of the localized differences in the savanna and has a strong influence on ecosystem C capture and storage. We recommend that future studies on savanna productivity and ecosystem CO fluxes should consider heterogeneity in the ecosystem in order to avoid bias and increase the accuracy of any estimates made.
20051309|We investigated neighboring plant effects (competition and facilitation) on wiregrass establishment in two frequently encountered restoration situations of former longleaf pine-wiregrass habitats in the Southeastern United States: longleaf pine plantations and previously cultivated fields. In the plantation experiment, we specifically examined canopy removal, neighboring wiregrass density, and aboveground and belowground effects on establishment and growth of wiregrass seedlings at two different ages (3 weeks and 6 months) with 3 competitive exclusion treatments (aboveground exclusion, belowground exclusion, or no exclusion). Competition treatment effects were age-dependent for survivorship and growth. Survival of 6 month old seedlings was unaffected by competition treatment; whereas, three week old seedling survival was greatest where roots were excluded. Seedling size increased with root exclusion for 6 month seedlings, but not for 3 week old seedlings in plots lacking neighboring wiregrass. Where wiregrass was present, both 3 week and 6 month old seedlings increased growth with root exclusion. Furthermore, where neighboring wiregrass plants were absent, increasing canopy density resulted in decreased seedling size, but did not affect survivorship. In old fields, fertilizer treatments and weeding effects were also assessed using 3 week and 6 month old seedlings. Fertilizer application did not benefit seedling survival or growth and reduced survivorship of 3 week old seedlings. Seedlings were smaller where neighboring old field, weedy vegetation was present regardless of wiregrass seedling age; whereas, survival was dependent on seedling age at time of planting. Six month old seedling survivorship remained high regardless of weeding treatment. It is still unclear whether fertilizer application is beneficial to the successful establishment of wiregrass.
40305661|Establishment, colonization, and permanence of plants affect biogenic and physical processes leading to development of soil. Rockiness, temperature, and humidity are accepted explanations to the influence and the presence of rock-dwelling plants, but the relationship between mineral and chemical composition of rocks with plant abundance is unknown in some regions. This study documents plant species growing on rocks, their capacity as rock colonizers measured by the Importance Index, and the relationships between the chemical composition of rocks and the abundance of the dominant plant. The community is composed of eight species and is dominated by the small cactus Mammillaria fraileana. Sites with low abundance of this species contain volcanic breccias, high amounts Ca, Fe, Mg, Ti, Al, and Mn as part of moderately weatherable minerals, such as plagioclase and pyroxene. Sites with higher abundance contain rhyodacite, rhyolite, and andesite rocks rich in more weatherable minerals, such as volcanic glass and minerals containing Si, K, and Na. K and Na were present in equal proportions only at the site with more plants. Since Na is toxic for most plants, an experiment was carried out to assess its effect on the survival of M. fraileana seedlings. Decreased survival occurred as the concentration of Na increased. Even in the treatment without Na, survival decreased slightly. In summary, presence and abundance of plants is related to the type of bedrock, their weathering characteristics, and proportion of elements. The interactions among elements, rather than the isolated effect of specific elements, could be the most reliable explanation for local variations in the abundance and dominance of Mammillaria fraileana in rocky habitat in the southern Sonoran Desert.
20050980|Increasing cover by woody vegetation, prevalent in semiarid savanna rangelands throughout the world, is a degrading process attributed to the grazing impact as a major causal factor. We studied grazing effects on savanna vegetation dynamics under alternative stocking strategies with a spatially explicit grid-based simulation model grounded in Kalahari (southern Africa) ecology. Plant life histories were modeled for the three major life forms: perennial grasses, shrubs, annuals. We conducted simulation experiments over a range of livestock utilization intensities for three alternative scenarios of small scale grazing heterogeneity, and two alternative strategies: fixed stocking versus adaptive stocking tracking herbage production. Additionally, the impact of the duration of the management planning horizon was studied, by comparing community response and mean stocking rates after 20 and 50 years. Results confirmed a threshold behavior of shrub cover increase: at low, subcritical utilization intensity little change occurred; when utilization intensity exceeded a threshold, shrub cover increased drastically. For both stocking strategies, thresholds were highly sensitive to grazing heterogeneity. At a given critical utilization intensity, the long term effect of grazing depended on the level of grazing heterogeneity: whereas under low heterogeneity, shrub cover remained unchanged, a large increase occurred under highly heterogeneous grazing. Hence, information on spatial grazing heterogeneity is crucial for correct assessment of the impact of livestock grazing on vegetation dynamics, and thus for the assessment of management strategies. Except for the least heterogeneous grazing scenario, adaptive stocking allowed a more intensive utilization of the range without inflating the risk of shrub cover increase. A destabilizing feedback between rainfall and herbage utilization was identified as the major cause for the worse performance of fixed compared to adaptive stocking, which lacks this feedback. Given the usually high grazing heterogeneity in semiarid rangelands, adaptive stocking provides a management option for increasing herbage utilization and thus returns of livestock produce without increasing degradation risks.
40305445|Permanent plots were created in different seasons (autumn and spring) and filled with two substrates: nutrient-rich topsoil and nutrient-poor ruderal soil (n = 5 for each treatment). My objectives were to assess the influence of starting season on initial species composition, whether differences at the start cause divergent or convergent pathways of succession and which mechanisms are operating during vegetation development. Mean species richness (number of species per plot) and mean total cover of herb layer differed significantly between substrates and changed significantly during 10 year succession, but there were no significant differences with respect to starting season. However, seasonal as well as substrate effects were evident for particular dominant species and for the pattern of successional sequences. When succession on topsoil plots started in spring, first summer annuals dominated, then monocarpic and polycarpic perennial herbs, then herbaceous perennials together with woody perennials, and at the end of the decade woody perennials. When succession started in autumn, polycarpic perennial herbs dominated from the beginning, and then were replaced by woody perennials in the second half of the decade. On ruderal soil, there was a less rapid but continuous increase of polycarpic perennial herbs and woody species, both on spring and on autumn plots, whereas short-lived plants were more abundant in the first years and then decreased. Species turnover was very high from the first to the second year for all treatments (except topsoil plots starting in autumn), but slowed down during succession. Priority effects due to starting season caused high dissimilarity at the start on the nutrient-rich substrate, but convergent succession towards the end of the first decade. The main mechanisms during early succession on the nutrient-rich topsoil were tolerance based on different life-history traits and inhibition due to reduced light availability. There was no evidence for obligate facilitation. However, an indirect facilitative effect by annuals, which slowed the development of herbaceous perennials down, and thus facilitated growth of woody species, could be seen on topsoil when succession started in spring.
40305486|Investigations on seeds of Scrophularia marilandica L. were undertaken to determine their germination requirements. Seeds were collected from three naturally occurring sites and one greenhousegrown population in London, Ontario in September and October of 1997. Some were set to germinate immediately after collection; others were stored in or on soil outside and/or under controlled laboratory conditions before testing. Germination was assessed under two light/temperature regimes (35C 14 h light, 20C 10 h dark and 25C 14 h light, 10C 10 h dark), in continuous darkness, and in the presence of two germination-promoting chemicals (GA and KNO). Fresh seeds germinated best at 35/20C, while stored seeds germinated best at 25/10C. No differences in percent germination were found among three seed-maturity stages. All chemical treatments, except 0.01 M KNO, increased percent germination. Significant differences were found both among and within sites for most chemical treatments, but exposure to 3 x 10 M GA 3 caused almost every seed to germinate. When compared to the control, both the gibberellic acid and the soil-storage treatments contributed to faster germination. Exposure of seeds to naturally prevailing conditions on the soil surface followed by testing under the 25/10C regime produced the highest percent germination. No seeds germinated in the dark. In summary, seeds of S. marilandica exhibit physiological dormancy, which can be alleviated by exposure to light, afterripening and/or cold stratification. It is probable that the differences in germination response among sites can be attributed to differences in environmental conditions during seed production. These experiments indicate that the seeds of S. marilandica must be buried shortly after dispersal in order to form a persistent seed bank.
20050903|We analysed the geographic distribution of native grassland and introduced grassland plants and the association of species abundance with climate and site characteristics in southern Alberta using a database of range and pasture assessments collected during 1991, 1992 and 1993. Distribution maps of native and introduced grassland plants could be inferred from association between site data recording botanical composition or presence and mean monthly climate surfaces for May and August. Introduced species formed three main geographical patterns with alfalfa, smooth bromegrass and crested wheatgrass most widespread, Russian wildrye restricted to the south eastern quarter and timothy, creeping red fescue, bluegrass and clovers restricted to the northern half. Native plants formed four main patterns characterised by Stipa comata and Bouteloua gracilis -- south eastern; Agropyron spp. -- widespread; Festuca spp. -- northern and foothills; and Stipa viridula -- sparse. Relative abundance of Stipa comata and Bouteloua gracilis were related primarily to latitude and longitude and variables describing temperature during the growing season. Biomass increased and range condition decreased with increasing latitude reflecting the decline in dominant native species, the increase in introduced and invader species and the better growing season moisture in northern areas. The maps provide a recent snapshot of the condition of commercially utilised native and cultivated grasslands in Alberta. They constitute a valuable reference point for comparison with future climate or management-induced change.
20050488|In the first part of their investigations of the weed seed bank in a 110 ha landscape segment in southern Bavaria, Albrecht & Forster (1996) showed that there was a tremendous spatial variability in seed density as well as in species composition. The intention of the present paper was to elucidate the reasons for this variability. For this purpose, the influence of soil conditions, land use practices, and soil fauna, all of which are environmental factors potentially affecting the weed seed bank, were investigated. Highly significant correlations were observed between the soil seed bank, preceding management variables, and the available field capacity. In contrast, multiple regression analyses between seed banks and the chemical characteristics of the soil, soil fauna, and actual management showed either minor correlation or none at all. Thus, prior management and water supply must be supposed to have had the most decisive influence on the soil seed bank. Several environmental variables affect arable weed populations, not so much through the soil seed bank but through the germination, establishment, and reproduction phases in the field. For this reason the relations between the 'apparent' weed flora and the 'potential' vegetation in the soil also were investigated. The correlation of the soil seed content and the density of individuals on the soil surface was highly significant. The analysis for a single species revealed that the seed bank/field density-ratios of different taxa vary from below 10:1 up to 100:1 and more. This wide range may be related to the life-forms and ecological requirements characteristic for each species. Finally, comparisons of the environmental variables with the soil seed bank and surface vegetation allowed ranking of the variables as to their importance for these two stadia of plant population development. These investigations indicated that the preceding management by different farmers exerted a more decisive influence on the number of seeds in the soil. In contrast, the actual grain yield and N-content in a soil showed a closer relationship to the soil surface vegetation. With regard to the species composition, no distinct differences in the environmental relationships between the soil seed bank and the soil surface vegetation could be observed.
40305640|We investigated the importance of clonal growth to the recovery of a common eastern North American sub-shrub, Gaultheria procumbens L. (Ericacea), after clearcut logging. Changes in vegetative growth and development of G. procumbens clones and clonal populations were examined in a chronosequence of logged stands representing different stages of successional development after clearcutting (open habitat, young regenerating forest, closed regenerating forest) and in neighboring undisturbed late-successional forests representative of presettlement conditions. We specifically quantified seedling presence and above-ground ramet production, demographic condition (e.g., sexual vs. vegetative stems), belowground rhizome growth and spread, and assessed the degree of intraspecific variation in clonal morphology and biomass allocation in stands differing in their disturbance history and degree of successional development. Recovery in G. procumbens was largely driven by the "release growth" of pre-existing clonal bud-banks in response to canopy removal. Release growth was expressed as greater ramet initiation, rhizome branching and clonal spread. Conversely, we found no evidence of sexual establishment in the species, although production of reproductive biomass (e.g., inflorescence mass, number of flowering shoots) was significant. These findings support a deterministic model of vascular resistance and resilience to catastrophic disturbance, in which recovery of forest plant communities derives from the life-history characteristics of constituent species.
20146534|Different types of relationship between herbaceous species richness and several parameters indicating abundance of plant material (herbaceous, woody plants, litter and bare ground cover) are presented. The data were obtained from 50 sites along a 300 km strip running from E to W within Spain and Portugal. Each site was representative of the silvo-pastoral landscape of the Mediterranean type ecosystems of the Iberian peninsula, and contained two neighboring patches, one of grassland and the other of shrubland. 3,600 20  20 cm subplots were randomly located (72 per site, 36 per patch) crossing the boundary grassland/shrubland. This approach allowed us to analyze the richness-occupation relationship of the space from different points of view: among and within the sites, and among and within the grassland and shrubland plant communities. We found a unimodal relationship between richness-cover similar to the one generally accepted between richness and biomass. Our results show that the dependence of this relationship varies depending on the spatial scale of the analysis and on the type of data used. When the whole region is taken into account, significant unimodal relationships are found between richness and herbaceous cover, litter and bare ground, and a negative linear relationship with woody plant cover. Within the sites there are mainly linear or non-significant relationships. But the results also depend on the type of communities analyzed. In pastures, the unimodal relationship represents the combination of positive and negative linear responses for low and high cover values, respectively. The value for herbaceous cover in which maximum richness occurs is around 60%. In shrublands, this value for cover also corresponds to maximum species richness, although the possibilities of reaching it are limited by other variables, such as woody plant cover. This implies that, on not considering variability at local scale, the relationship is linear and positive. This paper shows the existence of a common model related to herbaceous cover, but this model has multiple controlling factors that act differently in each type of community.
41508712|The Public Land Survey (PLS) witness tree data provide one of the few quantitative data sets of pre-and early-European settlement composition and structure of the forests and woodlands in the western United States. However, quantifying the areal extent of individual woody species from PLS records has proven difficult due to the coarse sampling structure of the data. Several attempts have been made to convert the discrete PLS witness tree data into continuous distributions through the use of various interpolation techniques. While these methods may adequately represent the spatial patterns of individual species over large areas, they fail to consider the numerous environmental covariates that can influence the distribution of individual tree species at finer scales. A more statistically rigorous method calls for combining species-environment relationships to estimate the areal extent of individual species from point data. In this study, we utilize weights-of-evidence (WofE), a discrete multivariate method, to estimate the probable historical distribution of six important woody plant taxa of the cross timbers of south-central Oklahoma. We successfully created posterior probability distribution maps for Quercus stellata, Q. marilandica, Q. velutina, Cary a texana, C. illinoinensis, and Juniperus spp. Each posterior probability map was classified into four predictive categories, thereby enabling better estimations of the historical distribution of individual taxon from coarse-resolution PLS data.Model validation indicated that the Woffi method effectively estimated the posterior probabilities of all taxa under consideration.
40666570|The impact of airborne nitrogen on tree regeneration has attracted increasing interest as deposition loads are by far exceeding natural amounts. Eutrophication may have both direct and indirect effects on the regeneration of forest trees. Here, we focus on potential indirect effects, mediated by nitrogen-dependent patterns in forest understorey s. Using data from a long-term monitoring site in a montane forest ecosystem of the Northern Limestone Alps, we first evaluated correlations between understorey cover of herbs and graminoids and nitrogen availability, as indicated by soil C/N ratios. Then, recruitment and growth rates of the four major tree species of this system (Acer pseudplatanus, Fraxinus excelsior, Fagus sylvatica and Picea abies) were related to understorey cover by means of linear and generalized linear mixed models, taking covariates (soil pH value, radiation, microrelief properties) and spatially varied seed input into account. Nitrogen availability is positively related to graminoid and herb cover. Herb cover had a negative effect on A. pseudoplatanus recruitment, while graminoids had a positive effect on F. sylvatica. Browsing damage on juvenile trees was reduced when graminoid cover was higher We conclude that under specific abiotic and biotic conditions, like on steep, erosion prone slopes, or under high levels of herbivore pressure, understorey vegetation may facilitate tree seedlings rather than compete with them. This highlights the complexity of the factors controlling tree regeneration and the difficulty to predict the net effects of the excess deposition of airborne nitrogen.
20146343|Grasslands worldwide have been invaded by woody species during the last 200 years. Atmospheric CO enrichment may indirectly have facilitated invasion by reducing soil water depletion by grasses. We used a two-step correlative approach to test this hypothesis with the invasive and native shrub honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa). 1) Water content to 0.15 m depth was measured in grassland exposed to a CO gradient from 200 to 550 mol/mol to evaluate the prediction that CO enrichment lessens soil water depletion by grasses. 2) Soil water content and emergence and survival of mesquite seedlings were measured in adjacent grassland plots from which grass roots were excluded to 0.15 m depth to reduce water depletion or that were irrigated to increase soil water levels. With these measurements, we tested the hypothesis that mesquite establishment is limited by water. Excluding grass roots doubled emergence of mesquite and almost tripled the fraction of emergent seedlings that survived for 12 weeks following the first of two plantings. Seedlings were taller, heavier, and had greater leaf area when grown without grass roots. Root exclusion did not measurably affect soil water during the 3-week period of seedling emergence, but soil water content over the 12 weeks that seedling survival was studied was higher in plots from which grass roots were excluded and following an April than May planting. Survivorship of mesquite seedlings correlated positively with soil water content. Percentage survival of seedlings increased from 1.5% to 15% and 28% at the soil water content measured in grassland exposed to CO concentrations of 270 (preindustrial), 360 (current), and 550 mol/mol (future), respectively. We infer that recent and projected increases in atmospheric CO concentration may be large enough to increase establishment of invading mesquite seedlings in grasslands that are severely water-limited.
20146991|Understanding the mechanisms that determine the distribution and abundance of plants is a major problem in ecology. However, very few studies have explored the factors controlling the abundance of columnar cacti throughout their range of distribution. In this paper, we describe the density and size structure of 26 populations of Pachycereus pringlei throughout its distribution range in the Sonoran Desert. Major differences in abundance were detected between island and mainland and peninsular areas, with islands sustaining significantly larger densities than mainland and peninsular populations. Within peninsular populations, the abundance was negatively associated with latitude and positively associated with annual and seasonal rainfall. In contrast, the abundance in mainland populations showed neither latitudinal trend nor an association with rainfall. In peninsular populations, mean height and basal diameter of branched plants showed a negative association with population density whereas mainland populations showed no significant association. None of the populations exhibited a population structure that fitted the log-normal distribution expected for young, growing populations with constant recruitment. Insular, peninsular and mainland populations showed a population structure with an uneven size distribution typical of populations experiencing regeneration pulses.
20050965|Pasture lands are an important facet of land use in the northeast United States, yet little is known about their recent diversity. To answer some fundamental questions about the diversity of these pasture lands, we designed a broad survey to document plant species richness using an intensive, multi scale sampling method. We also wanted to learn whether environmental (soils or climate) or land management variables could help explain patterns of species richness. A total of 17 farms, encompassing 37 pastures, were sampled in New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Maryland, Massachusetts and Connecticut during July and August 1998. We positively identified a total of 161 different plant species across the study region. Species richness averaged 31.7  1.1 on pastures. Infrequent, transient species that were mostly perennial and annual forbs accounted for  90% of the species richness. Except for a subjective rating of grazing intensity, land management methods were not good predictors of species richness. Over time, it appears that grazing neither reduces nor increases species richness in pastures. Of the environmental variables measured, only soil P explained a significant amount of the variation in species richness. Soil P was inversely related to species richness at the
40305687|Ecological factors affecting reproduction and dispersal are particularly important in determining genetic structure of plant populations. Polyoicous reproductive system is not rare in bryophytes; however, to date, nothing is known about its functioning and possible population genetic effects. Using the liverwort Mannia fragrans as a model species, the main aims of this study were to separate the relative importance of the components of the polyoicous reproductive system and to assess its consequences on the genetic structure of populations. High sex expression rates increasing with patch size and strongly female-biased sex ratios were detected. Additional input into clonal growth after production of sex organs was found in males compared to females. Similar clonal traits of the rare bisexual and asexual plants and preference toward newly colonized patches suggest that selection prefers colonizers that first develop organs of both sexes, hence ensuring sexual reproduction when no partner is present. Despite frequent spore production, ISSR markers revealed low genetic diversity, probably resulting from the effective clonal propagation of the species and frequent crossing between genetically identical plants. The presence of numerous rare alleles and unique recombinant haplotypes indicates occasional recombination and mutation. Effective spreading of new haplotypes is probably hampered however by large spore size. Since populations are small and isolated, such haplotypes are probably continuously eliminated by genetic drift. These results suggest that although both sexual and asexual reproductions seem to be effective, asexual components of the reproductive system play a greater role in shaping the genetic composition of the populations.
40305715|Dispersal by frugivorous birds facilitates invasion by many exotic plants. We measured the seed rain of ornithochorous native and exotic plants at three habitats of a fragmented landscape of the northeastern United States for 1 year. We studied maple-beech forests, old fields, and abandoned conifer plantations. Across all sites we collected 2,196 ornithochorous seeds, including seeds from six exotic species and 10 native species. The majority (90%) of collected seeds were from exotic species. Seed dispersal was broadly similar among habitats, though seed rain of exotic species was higher in old fields than forested habitats. Seed rain was not strongly influenced by artificial perches for most species. However, seeds of exotic species were more commonly found in traps under an artificial perch in old fields. Seed rains for the exotic Elaeagnus umbellata, Rhamnus cathartica, and Rosa multiflora were positively associated with local density of mature plants. Seed rain of R. cathartica was positively associated with abundance of seedlings but not saplings, suggesting that post-dispersal mortality was important. Seed dispersal of the exotic Lonicera spp. was high in all habitats, accounting for 66% of all seeds collected. With the exception of Lonicera spp., seed rain of common exotic invaders was affected by the abundance of seed sources, and these species might be effectively controlled by elimination of local fruiting plants. Fruits of Lonicera morrowii, which has extensively invaded our area, are apparently a common component in the diet of frugivores.
20146502|Low growing, compact cushion plants are a common and often dominant life form in temperate and subpolar alpine habitats. The cushion life-form can modify wind patterns, temperature and water availability and thus cushion species could be expected to act as nurse-plants facilitating the establishment of other alpine plant species on their surfaces. It has been suggested that the nurse effect should be most pronounced under more stressful environmental conditions, as found with increasing elevation in the alpine. One of the approaches used to detect the nurses has been the study of spatial associations among species, in which extreme clumping within or beneath one species has been interpreted as evidence of nursing. We characterized microclimatic conditions (soil and air temperature) within and outside cushions of Azorella monantha at two elevations (700 m a.s.l., corresponding to an elevation just above treeline, and 900 m a.s.l., corresponding to the upper limit of the cushion belt zone) on Cerro Diente in the Patagonian alpine of southern South America (50 S) and recorded all plant species growing upon cushions of various sizes and for paired sampling areas of equivalent sizes outside cushions. At 5 cm depth, soil temperature was slightly higher under cushions than under bare ground, but only significantly so at 900 m. Air temperature at ground level was significantly higher in the cushion microhabitat at both 700 m and 900 m, with the difference being more exaggerated at the highest elevation. At 700 m, a total of 27 species were recorded growing within cushions as compared to 29 outside cushions. At 900 m the corresponding numbers were 34 and 18. At the highest elevation, significantly more species grow within cushions than for equal areas outside cushions. Here moreover, 17 (48.6%) species grew preferentially within cushions, with eight of the latter being limited to the cushion microhabitat at this elevation. However, at 700 m there was no significant difference in species richness in the two microhabitats, and only one species (3.1%) grew preferentially on cushions. Considering individual species, nine occurring at both elevations showed non-preferential recruitment on cushions at 700 m, but significantly higher frequencies on cushions at 900 m. Results suggest striking altitudinal variation in the association with Azorella monantha on Cerro Diente, ranging from a very strong at 900 m to near absence at 700 m. Milder air and soil temperatures, shelter from wind, and greater water availability within cushions as opposed to outside cushions are discussed as possible factors favoring strong plant recruitment on cushions at higher elevations in the harsh Patagonian alpine environment.
40926910|The fragmentation of mediterranean climate landscapes where fire is an important landscape process may lead to unsuitable fire regimes for many species, particularly rare species that occur as small isolated populations. We investigate the influence of fire interval on the persistence of population fragments of the endangered shrub Verticordia fimbrilepis Turcz. subsp. fimbrilepis in mediterranean climate south-west of Western Australia. We studied the population biology of the species over 5 years. While the species does recruit sporadically without fire this occurs only in years with above average rainfall, so fire seems to be the main environmental factor producing extensive recruitment. Transition matrix models were constructed to describe the shrub's population dynamics. As the species is killed by fire and relies on a seed bank stimulated to germinate by smoke, stochastic simulations to compare different fire frequencies on population viability were completed. Extinction risk increased with increasing average fire interval. Initial population size was also important, with the lowest extinction risk in the largest population. For populations in small reserves where fire is generally excluded, inevitable plant senescence will lead to local extirpation unless fires of suitable frequency can be used to stimulate regeneration. While a suitable fire regime reduces extinction risk small populations are still prone to extinction due to stochastic influences, and this will be exacerbated by a projected drying climate increasing rates of adult mortality and also seedling mortality in the post-fire environment.
41508660|In Mediterranean ecosystems, fire is a strong selective agent among plants, and the different post-fire regeneration strategies (e.g. resprouting and non-resprouting) have implications for other plant traits. Because young plants of non-resprouters need to grow quickly and mature well before the next fire, we predict that they should possess leaf traits related to increased efficiency in growth and resource acquisition compared with resprouter species. To test this hypothesis, we measured specific leaf area, leaf nitrogen and carbon concentrations and leaf physiological traits, including gas exchange parameters and chlorophyll fluorescence, in 19 Mediterranean species cultivated in a common garden. Both cross-species and phylogenetically informed analyses suggest that non-resprouters have better physiological performance at the leaf level (i.e. higher photosynthetic capacity) than resprouters. All these results suggest that non-resprouter species are able to take greater advantage for vegetative growth and carbon fixation than resprouters during periods when water is readily available. The contrasted physiological differences between resprouters and non-resprouters reinforce the idea that these two syndromes are functionally different (i.e. they are functional types).
20050964|A multivariate linear regression model is proposed for predicting and mapping rare vascular plant species richness in Finnish agricultural landscapes according to landscape variables. The data used in developing the model were derived from a floristic inventory from 105 0.5 km  0.5 km grid squares. Using a stepwise multiple regression technique, four landscape variables were found to explain 71.8% of the variability in the number of rare plant species. The results suggest that the local 'hotspots' of rare plants (squares with 5 rare taxa) are mainly found in heterogeneous river valleys, where extensive semi-natural grasslands and herb-rich forests occur on the steep slopes. According to other similar studies, intermediate human disturbance increases the number of rare species in agricultural landscapes. It appears that empirical models based on landscape variables derived from digital maps can provide relatively accurate surrogates for extensive field surveys and fine-scale observations on the distributions of rare taxa in agricultural landscapes. Potential reasons for the performance of the model and the ecology and habitats of the species concerned are discussed.
20050622|Roupala montana is an evergreen species widespread in the seasonal savannas of the central plains of Brazil. I examined the degree of coupling of photosynthetic gas-exchange characteristics, water relations and growth responses of R. montana with regard to seasonal changes in soil water availability. Despite a rainless period of over three months soil water potential at 60 cm depth reached values of only about -1.0 MPa, while pre-dawn leaf water potential () reached about -0.4 MPa by the end of the three-month drought. Thus, R. montana had access to deep soil water in the dry period, but pre-dawn  did not reach the high wet season values of -0.2 MPa. Most of the shoot growth was concluded in the onset of the rainy season. Although some individual branches might have shown some extension thereafter, most of them remained inactive during the rest of the rainy season and the subsequent dry season. New leaf production was also restricted to the first part of the wet period. R. montana remained evergreen in the dry season, but there was a 27% decrease in the number of leaves and herbivory removed about 16% of the leaf area still present in the plant. CO-exchange rates of these leaves reached only ca. 55% of the maximum rainy season values of 14
20146850| During the past three decades the Earth has warmed with a rate unprecedented during the past 1000 years. There is already ample evidence that this fast climate warming has affected a broad range of organisms, including plants. Plants from high-latitude and high-altitude sites ('cold biomes') are especially sensitive to climate warming. In this paper we (1) review the response in the phenology of plants, changes in their range and distribution, soil nutrient availability, and the effects on the structure and dynamics of plant communities for cold, northern biomes; and (2) we show, by using data from an ongoing snow and temperature manipulation experiment in northern Sweden, that also winter and spring events have a profound influence on plant performance. Both long-term phenological data sets, experimental warming studies (performed in summer or year-round), natural gradient studies and satellite images show that key phenological events are responsive to temperature increases and that recent climate warming does indeed lead to changes in plant phenology. However, data from a warming and snow manipulation study that we are conducting in northern Sweden show that plants respond differently to the various climatic scenarios that we had imposed on these species and that especially winter and spring events have a profound impact. This indicates that it is necessary to include several scenarios of both summer and winter climate change in experimental climate change studies, and that we need detailed projections of future climate at a regional scale to be able to assess their impacts on natural ecosystems. There is also ample evidence that the range shift of herbs and shrubs to more northern regions is for the vast majority of species mainly caused by changes in the climate. This is in line with the observed 'up-greening' of northern tundra sites. These rapid northern shifts in distribution of plants as a result of climate warming may have substantial consequences for the structure and dynamics of high-latitude ecosystems. An analysis of warming studies at 9 tundra sites shows that heating during at least 3 years increased net N-mineralization from 0.320.31 (SE) g N m yr in the controls to 0.530.31 (SE) g N m yr in the heated plots (p&lt0.05), an increase of about 70%. Thus, warming leads to higher N availability in high-latitude northern tundra sites, but the variability is substantial. Higher nutrient availability affects in turn the species composition of high-latitude sites, which has important consequences for the carbon and water balance of these systems. 
20146377|Spatial associations among overstory and understory species tend to increase on gradients from wet to dry climates. This shift in the strength of spatial associations has usually been attributed to shared abiotic requirements between canopy species and understory assemblages within communities and/or to an increase in habitat heterogeneity in dry climates and therefore higher beta diversity. On another hand, more important positive effects of tree canopies on understory species in drier climates may also explain stronger associations and higher beta diversity. We examined these three hypotheses along a strong rainshadow gradient that occurs from the wet external Alps to the dry inner Alps by analyzing with correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis the species composition of 290 relevs of forests dominated to different degrees by Abies alba and Picea abies. We found important differences in climatic requirements for Albies and Picea, with Abies occurring in warmer and drier habitats than Picea. The understory species associated with these two species showed similar correlations with temperature but not with moisture, with understory species of Picea-communities having stronger xeric affinities than understory species of Abies-communities. We found no significant associations between canopy species and understory composition in the external Alps despite the fact that Abies and Picea occurred in substantially different environments. In contrast, Abies and Picea occurred in more similar environments in the inner Alps, but the understory assemblages associated with either Abies or Picea were significantly different. This increase in canopy-understory associations was in part determined by strong differences in moisture between southern and northern aspects in the inner Alps, which affected both canopy and understory species distributions. However, differences between the canopy effects of Picea and Abies also appeared to contribute to stronger associations between canopy and understory species, and consequently to increase beta diversity. This pattern only occurred on southern aspects of the inner Alps but was highly significant. Our results suggest that species distributions may be continuous on the wet ends of moisture gradients but discrete on dry ends. Relatively discrete communities at stressful ends of gradients appear to develop as a result of both habitat differentiation and the positive effects of overstory species.
41508774|Using the small-scale gradients in light and fertility imposed by the presence of trees on Mediterranean open oak woodlands, we studied differences in the ecology, floristic diversity and species composition of an annual grassland, and modeled plant relationships with soil properties and radiation using generalized linear models. The strong intra-annual variability in the annual grassland greatly affected overall floristic diversity estimates. Therefore, sampling at least twice during the annual growing period was important to avoid underestimating floristic composition. As has been found in previous studies, different groups of grasses were clearly shaped as a response to the ecological gradient created by the influence of the tree. However, when analyzing specific relationships, only a few individual species directly responded to the studied soil and light availability factors analyzed. Among them, those species considered 'ruderal' such as Carduus tenuiflorus, Echium plantagineum, Lolium rigidum, Rumex bucephalophorus, and Tolpis barbata showed a clear response to some nutrients and to light availability but displayed no relationship to N soil content. Our results suggest that individual species are responding to a combination of ecological factors. Therefore, some of the generally accepted assumptions regarding the ecology of specific taxa may not be as straightforward as traditionally considered.
20146910|We fill a gap in understanding wetland vegetation diversity and relationship with environmental determinants in Bulgarian high mountains. A total of 615 phytosociological samples were taken from springs, mires, wet meadows and tall-forb habitats throughout Bulgaria, of which 234 relevs are from mire and spring vegetation above timberline. The vegetation was classified by TWINSPAN and the resulting vegetation types were reproduced by the formal definitions using the combination of Cocktail species groups based on phicoefficient of joint co-occurrence of the species. Nine vegetation types of springs and fens have been clearly delimited above the timberline. All vegetation types include Balkan endemic species, the representation of which varies. Fens generally harbour more Balkan endemics than do springs, with the exception of species-poor high-altitude Drepanocladetum exannulati. The gradient structure of the vegetation was revealed by DCA and by CCA with forward selection of environmental factors. The major determinants of vegetation variation strongly differ above and below the timberline and likewise between springs and fens. The base-richness gradient controls the floristic variation of Bulgarian submontane fens, whereas the complete data set including both submontane and subalpine fens is governed by the altitude gradient from lowland and basin fens to subalpine fens rich in Balkan endemics. When focusing on sites above the timberline only, the first DCA axis separates fens from springs without organic matter. The major species turnover in springs follows the variation in water pH and mineral content in water, whereas fen vegetation variation is primarily controlled by succession gradient of peat accumulation. Altitude remains an important factor in all cases. Weak correlation between water pH and conductivity was found. This correlation was even statistically insignificant in fens above the timberline. Water pH is not influenced by mineral richness in Bulgarian high mountains, since it is buffered by decomposition of organic matter in fens. In springs, pH reaches maximum values due to strong aeration caused by water flow. The plant species richness decreases significantly with increasing altitude. The increase of species richness towards circumneutral pH, often found in mires, was not confirmed in Bulgarian high mountains. The correlation between species richness and pH was significant only when arctic-alpine species and allied European high-mountain species were considered separately. The richness of boreal species was independent on pH. Some of them had their optima shifted to more acidic fens as compared to regions below the timberline. Our results suggest that subalpine spring and fen vegetation should be analysed separately with respect to vegetation-environment correlations. Separate analysis of fens below and above timberline is quite appropriate.
40305760|To effectively manage plant populations for conservation, there is a need to provide reliable information on the conditions required for maintaining viable populations. This is particularly true for the management of populations of rare plant taxa. Western Australia contains over 45% of Australia's gazetted rare or threatened flora, 80% of which are found within the highly fragmented southwest region. Resources do not exist to undertake comprehensive studies on the population dynamics and demographics for every rare plant of this diverse region. Here, we describe a method of classifying rare plant taxa into functional groups as a basis for guiding rare flora conservation and management. Data on four floral and two life-history traits were collected for each of the 351 declared rare flora taxa of Western Australia. A hierarchical, agglomerative clustering method was applied to the resulting taxa by traits matrix to extract emergent groupings of plant taxa. The resulting polythetic groups were analysed to determine the variation in traits, including response to disturbance and recorded flower visitors, and how these may affect population persistence in a fragmented landscape. Multivariate methods were used to define emergent groups based on a combination of floral structure and life-history traits of the declared rare flora of Western Australia. Seven emergent functional groups were identified and were largely differentiated by flower shape and life form. These seven functional groupings varied significantly in their response to disturbance. By deriving these functional groups, we plan to develop models for each group on how rates of pollination, seed production and seed fitness are affected by population size and landscape context. The rationale would be to use these profiles to determine whether there are thresholds in population size or position in the landscape at which reproductive rates severely decline. General management guidelines could then be developed for each functional group.
20050653|We studied the effects of experimental fire regimes, (dormant season fire, growing season fire, growing season mowing and control, i.e., no experimental treatment) on populations of the USA federally endangered, Schwalbea americana L. between 1992 and 1996. Although this species occurs in fire-maintained habitat in the Southeastern USA, there is concern about the use of fire for such rare populations. The purpose of the study was to examine how seasonal timing of fire and fire suppression affect population demography, flowering phenology and spatial distribution; to identify modes of persistence associated with fire regimes; and to determine if summer mowing provides a management alternative to fire. Fire-induced flowering was demonstrated in this species. Seasonal timing of burns appears to have relatively little consequence on population structure or spatial extent, but alters flowering phenology. Burning, regardless of season, resulted in increased population density and expansion in areal extent. Two possible mechanisms of persistence between fire events were identified including regression from reproductive stage to vegetative stage in the absence of fire and dormancy of individual plants for one or more seasons. Growing season mowing does not appear to be an adequate substitute for burning.
20050927|We tested the prediction that the successional replacement of plant species during succession on inland sand dunes results from the effects of an increase in nitrogen mineralization on competitive interactions. The growth and competitive strength of Festuca ovina and Deschampsia flexuosa on soil substrates with different amounts of soil organic matter or nitrogen supply were measured. Small tillers of Festuca ovina and Deschampsia flexuosa were grown in monocultures and 1:1-mixtures on soil columns with undisturbed layers of soil organic matter from different successional age. There was (a) no visible soil organic matter, (b) a thin soil organic layer (0.5 cm) and (c) a thicker soil organic layer (6.0 cm) present on the soil columns. The species were also grown on columns with no visible soil organic matter (bare sand) with two different levels of N fertilization to mimic the increased N mineralization in the older successional stages. In monoculture, Festuca produced more biomass on the substrates with a soil organic layer compared to the unfertilized sand substrate. It also produced more biomass on sand substrates with N fertilization. Deschampsia produced more biomass in treatments with a soil organic layer compared to the bare sand treatments, but did not respond to the ammonium-nitrate addition. In competition, Festuca seemed to be the stronger competitor on the unfertilized sand substrate. Festuca was also the better competitor on the N fertilized sand treatments, while on the treatments with a soil organic layer Deschampsia was the winning species. Our results do not support the hypothesis that an increase in N supply is responsible for the replacement of Festuca by Deschampsia that concur with the accumulation of soil organic matter during succession in inland dunes.
41508725|Plants can adapt to grazing environments by developing defensive traits, such as spines and toxins, or having a small phenotype, such as short and prostrate growth forms. This study examined facultative and competitive interactions between species with different types of grazing adaptation. We predicted that large species with defensive traits sometimes protect grazing-adapted species without defensive traits from herbivores, but competitively suppress them overall. We conducted an experiment using fences and removals of an unpalatable plant in the long-term deer grazing habitat of Nara Park in Nara, Japan. We evaluated the seasonal variations in the facilitative and competitive effects of a defensive perennial, Urtica thunbergiana, on the growth, survival, reproduction, and final fitness of a small palatable annual species, Persicaria longiseta, during a growing season. The populations of the two species in the park have adapted to the grazed habitat by increasing the density of stinging hairs (Urtica) and developing inherently short shoots and small leaves (Persicaria). We found that Urtica individuals had facilitative effects on the growth of Persicaria individuals under grazing during a few periods of the growing season, but had neutral effects on survival and plant fitness throughout the season. In the fenced plots, Urtica had negative effects on the growth, survival, and reproduction of Persicaria. These results suggest that the relative importance of the facilitative and competitive effects of Urtica on Persicaria fluctuated due to seasonal variations in grazing pressure and vegetative productivity. Although well-defended plants often facilitate lessdefended species, we conclude that the facilitative effects of Urtica on Persicaria are limited in a plant community with a long history of intensive grazing.
41508731|Two, two-factor experiments manipulated species and functional form plant richness and the spatial scaling of either nitrogen (N) or phosphorous (P) in restored tallgrass prairie in North Dakota, USA. Nitrate (NO) leaching was measured in these plots and analyzed for its response to the treatment factors and measured plant community parameters. Nitrate extracted from anion exchange resin was regressed against the first principal component of species and functional form richness, the spatial scaling of N or P, the measured biomass of the functional forms used and the plot values for plant parameters based on weighted averages by species biomass. The treatments applied in the N and P experiments were 1, 2, 5, 10, or 20 plant species taxa, and the application of fertilizer in a random fractal pattern with either finescale or coarse-scale heterogeneity. Nitrate leaching decreased with plant diversity and increased by a factor of two going from fine-scale to coarse-scale N. It was also related to a number of plant functional parameters, and was positively correlated with the biomass of late successional C grasses (Koeleria cristata (Lam.) Beauv., Poa pratensis L., Stipa comata Trin. & Rupr., and Stipa viridula Trin.), which are known from previous studies to have negative mycorrhizal responsiveness and are characterized by high root lateral spread per unit of root biomass. Our results show that while plant diversity has a highly significant influence on plant community uptake of NO, this effect is mediated by the scaling of soil N and the functional traits of the species comprising the plant assemblage.
20050958|Three Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull heathlands (1100, 1500 and 1780 m altitude) are studied in order to establish and estimate parameters which will be integrated in a discrete event stimulation of heathland functioning in the case of a 2 C climate warming. The sites, situated in the Chane des Puys and the Massif du Sancy (France), present similar conditions for Calluna growth: bedrock (trachyt), exposure and slope, so that they can be compared on a climatic basis. Main parameters sampled are: age distributions, life expectancies, layering probabilities, annual growths, biomasses (standing crop), C/N rates and potential respiratory of soils. In addition, experiments were carried out on germination, hypocotyle elongation and growth of mycorrhizal fungi in order to estimate the inhibitory-to-growth action against the substitution process. On one stand (exhibiting gaps) the patch structure of Calluna plants was recorded and mapped. The rising of biomass expected is calculated according to the Aerts's model, as a function of nitrogen availability which would increase under a scenario of climate warming. From a similar point of view, layering probabilities, life expectancies and inhibition of seedlings survival modelling -- under a linear model assumption -- are proposed.
23500416|In arid environments, water availability is the main limiting factor for primary production, and it is expected that not only drought-resistance, but also plant strategies for soil water use will be under natural selection. Our aim was to investigate the strategies of soil water use and the responses to water shortage that lead to variability in drought resistance in Trichloris crinita plants (a native forage grass of northwestern Argentina) from sites with contrasting aridity. We established a common-garden experiment with plants from relatively "arid" and "humid" sites (326 and 625 mm mean annual precipitation, respectively). During 6 weeks, plants were subjected to two contrasting watering levels: control and drought. We found different water use strategies and drought resistance between plants from arid and humid sites: the former used water more conservatively and grew more under drought. During the first 2 weeks of the drought treatment, plants from arid sites dried out the soil slower than those from humid sites. Plants from arid sites subjected to drought showed less leaf senescence and a greater leaf elongation rate and biomass of green leaves than those from humid sites. This variability in adaptation to drought in T. crinita plants could be used to select plant materials for arid land revegetation or to be incorporated into breeding programs for forage purposes.
41508647|In this article, we focused on hummocky microtopography as a prominent feature of mires and explored the microenvironmental conditions suitable for alder seedling establishment. Japanese alder (Alnus japonica) forest is widely distributed in wetlands in northern Japan. However, because alder seedlings are rare in mires, alder population dynamics and conditions that favor the establishment of alder seedlings are still unknown. The study was conducted in northern Japan at a site in mesotrophic mire. We surveyed the seedling density, the microenvironmental conditions (light, litter cover, and soil quality), and the density of dispersed seeds in alder forest and in the adjacent herbaceous fen. In addition, we performed a laboratory experiment to examine the germination characteristics of alder. Seedlings grew only on hummocks in alder forest. The percentage of litter cover on hummocks was lower than in hollows, and the density of dispersed seeds in alder forest was much higher than in herbaceous fen. Seeds of Japanese alder germinated under both light and dark conditions, and the germination rate were high under light and high-temperature conditions. Our results suggest that litter cover may inhibit seedling establishment and hummocks that characterized by less litter cover are suitable place for the establishment of seedlings. We conclude that hummocky microtopography and abundant seed rain in the mire enable the establishment of Japanese alder seedlings.
20051224|Large amounts of former cropland are being abandoned in developed regions. To formulate guidelines for land reclamation programmes, we explored the effects of artificial shading, irrigation, and removal of weed competition on the performance of Retama sphaerocarpa (L.) Boiss. seedlings in a factorial experiment located in an abandoned cropland in Central Spain. R. sphaerocarpa is of interest for revegetation because it is a drought tolerant leguminous shrub that is a major structural component of the native plant community. Seedling performance was evaluated in three ways: seedling survivorship, growth, and photochemical efficiency. We also measured soil moisture and weed biomass production and found that both increased under artificial shading conditions. Soil moisture increased very slightly where weeds were removed. Thus, increased transpiration from weeds outweighed reduced evaporation from soils due to shading by weeds. Artificial shading was the most effective treatment for seedling survivorship, followed by removal of competition by weeds. After summer, 34% of the seedlings survived in the most favourable conditions (artificially shaded plots where weeds were removed), compared to ca. 1% in full-light plots with no removal of weed competition. A positive effect of irrigation was found for growth of seedling cover and height in shaded plots. The analysis of photochemical efficiency pointed out the relevance of weed competition removal, and confirmed the usefulness of fast fluorescence transient techniques for the quantification of seedling performance. The data suggest that competition between seedlings and weeds was primarily for water rather than for light. We conclude that i) artificial shading improved seedling performance, but this is a little practical technique because of its cost; ii) as weeds compete with, rather than facilitate, planted seedlings, weed clipping around the seedlings is a feasible technique that would improve seedling survival; and iii) seedling performance could also considerably improve with a higher irrigation than was used in this experiment (
40212938|In this study of the Pacific coast of North America, from Baja California to Alaska, we evaluated the hypothesis that the floristic composition of azonal vegetation determines areas and distribution limits similar to those of the corresponding zonobiomes (ZB), and does so in response to the same macroclimatic changes occurring on the continental scale. To this end, 686 vascular plants of the different habitats found in 279 sites along this coastal strip were recorded. Using an objective classification system (Average Linkage Clustering) and factorial analysis, floristic data acquired in fieldwork were classified into groups, which were in turn related to regional macroclimates. Our main finding was that the azonal coastal vegetation follows a distribution model that is closely linked to the corresponding macroclimate. The four ZB of the northern Pacific coast show a flora and azonal vegetation characteristic to each zonobiome; the latitudinal limits of the azonal vegetation practically coinciding with those already established for the zonal vegetation. The Boreal and Temperate ZB show high percentages of broadly distributed elements. The floristically richest zonobiome in terms of endemic taxa is the Mediterranean zonobiome, whereas the flora of Baja California is characterized by a high number of taxa related to Neotropical flora, especially to those showing links with South America. Data on the geographical distribution and habitats of the 247 most significant coastal species are also provided.
41508805|A buffering mechanism in co-evolutionary relationships could be to display phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental changes. In the nursery pollination mutualism between the European globeflower and its exclusive fly pollinators, adults feed and mate in flowers, and larvae develop feeding on seeds. Flower number and size influence fitness for both partners, and large flowers attract more flies. We tested floral plasticity in plants from two contrasting environments: a high-altitude heath and low- and intermediate-altitude meadow forests. High-altitude plants have single flowers, while meadow-forest plants sometimes have multiple flowers. Plants were grown for 3 years in a garden and supplied with eight times more nutrients than available in natural soils, given to controls. During the experiment, over 90% of all plants with excess nutrients flowered, while in controls, 40% (highaltitude) to 75-78% (meadow-forest) plants flowered. Excess nutrients stimulated 30% larger flowers, and in meadow-forest plants flower number increased 4.5-5 times. Flower number was only doubled in high-altitude plants. High-altitude plants displayed less plasticity, and possibly, a different genetic strategy involving meristem limitation.
20146364| Spatial patterns are important characteristics of the forest and they can reveal such things as successional status and ecological characteristics of the species. We tested the hypothesis that spatial distribution will be different, depending on whether the species is intolerant or tolerant to shade. We assessed the spatial distribution of trees (&gt 4 cm dbh) and juveniles in eight laurel forest plots. A univariate spatial analysis (performed with Ripley's K) showed that all tree species have significant aggregation at short distances (2 m). Nevertheless, two groups of species could be differentiated: Erica scoparia, Myrica faya and Ilex canariensis showed a tendency for aggregation at large distances (larger than 6 m) while L. azorica and Prunus lusitanica showed aggregation only at shorter distances. Ripley's Bivariate
20146627|Whether a species is native or introduced in a given geographic area is of major interest within the framewok of biological conservation. A practical approach combining phytosociological, ecological, phytogeographical and historical data is proposed to explore this status for rare plant species, and applied to Boxtree in northern France. Buxus sempervirens L. is an evergreen sub-mediterranean species whose wild populations in northern France are very rare and threatened. Its status -- native or introduced -- has long been be controversial. Three types of Box-woodland were found in the study area: 1) a Taxus baccata - Buxus sempervirens community which is strongly linked to post-Renaissance castles, 2) a Fraxinus excelsior - Mercurialis perennis community which may be related both to steep chalk slopes where Box was expected to be native and to Medieval castles, 3) a Quercus pubescens - Buxus sempervirens community which may be considered as an immature anthropogenic woodland. In all cases Buxus sempervirens was observed close to archaeological sites and together with exotic and/or nitrophilous plant species. Consequently Box is probably originally an introduced species in northern France and should be considered as both an "archaeophyte" and a "feudal plant". This method offers an interesting alternative to determine the indigenity status of a rare plant species in its localities that would provide sufficiently accurate criteria in most of the cases.
20146986| Moisture, nutrients, fire and herbivory are the principal factors governing tree-grass cover ratios of savannas. We investigated tree (Acacia mellifera) recruitment after fire and under conditions of maximum-recorded rainfall, nitrogen addition and grazing in a completely-crossed field experiment. We employed a similar garden experiment with the exception of the fire treatment. Tree germination in the field was extremely low, probably due to below-average natural rainfall in plots that only received natural rain, and insufficient watering frequency in irrigated plots. Due to low germination in the field experiment, no treatment significantly affected tree recruitment. In the garden experiment, frequent watering, nutrient control (i.e. no nitrogen addition) and grazing enhanced tree recruitment with significant interactions between rain, nitrogen and grazing. We infer that above-average rainfall years with frequent rainfall events are required for mass tree recruitment. Grass defoliation makes space and resources available for tree seedlings. Nitrogen enrichment increases the competitive ability of fast-growing grasses more than that of the N-fixing tree component. In contrast to conventional wisdom that grazing alone causes encroachment, we suggest that there are complex interactions between the above-mentioned factors and 'triggering' events such as unusually high rainfall. 
20146600|Invasions by non-native taxa can have severe consequences for native species. In the heavily invaded serpentine grasslands of central California, many native species appear to be restricted to isolated outcrops of shallow serpentine soil, or "hummocks," although the extent to which these hummocks function as refuges for native vegetation has never been quantified. We tested whether native plant species were restricted to hummocks within a serpentine grassland at the University of California Sedgwick Reserve near Santa Barbara, California by sampling species along hummock-grassland gradients. We also examined the influence of soil parameters, hummock area, proximity to other hummocks, and spatial location on species composition across 16 hummocks at this site. Both the hummocks and the surrounding grassland had high Mg, low Ca, and low Ca to Mg ratios typical of serpentine systems. Hummocks appeared to be more stressful environments because of their shallower soils, lower cation exchange capacity, and greater percent sand. Of the 27 most common plant species sampled along hummock-grassland transects, we identified 8 hummock specialists, 7 edge specialists, 8 matrix specialists, and 4 generalists. Importantly, both the hummock and matrix specialist groups included native species. Plant community composition was correlated with spatial positioning of the hummocks and with soil Ca, Na, K, and N. The number of species increased and community composition changed with increasing hummock area. Species composition was most similar among hummocks in close proximity to each other, and decreased with increasing distance between hummocks. Our results suggest that the community structure of serpentine grasslands is spatially complex and an effective management or restoration plan must address this complexity.
40305461|Tropical storms are the principal cause of landslides in montane rainforests, such as the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF) of Puerto Rico. A storm in 2003 caused 30 new landslides in the LEF that we used to examine prior hypotheses that slope stability and organically enriched soils are prerequisites for plant colonization. We measured slope stability and litterfall 8-13 months following landslide formation. At 13 months we also measured microtopography, soil characteristics (organic matter, particle size, total nitrogen, and water-holding capacity), elevation, distance to forest edge, and canopy cover. When all landslides were analyzed together, plant biomass and cover at 13 months were not correlated with slope stability or organic matter, but instead with soil nitrogen, clay content, waterholding capacity, and elevation. When landslides were analyzed after separating by soil type, the distance from the forest edge and slope stability combined with soil factors (excluding organic matter) predicted initial plant colonization on volcaniclastic landslides, whereas on diorite landslides none of the measured characteristics affected initial plant colonization. The life forms of the colonizing plants reflected these differences in landslide soils, as trees, shrubs, and vines colonized high clay, high nitrogen, and low elevation volcaniclastic soils, whereas herbs were the dominant colonists on high sand, low nitrogen, and high elevation diorite soils. Therefore, the predictability of the initial stage of plant succession on LEF landslides is primarily determined by soil characteristics that are related to soil type.
40212963|We tested the hypothesis that the growth of fine roots upward into the leaf litter, forming a 'surface root mat', found widely in Amazonian forests, is of adaptive value for plants of poor soils because it makes possible more rapid uptake of limiting nutrients. We assessed the effect of invasion by fine roots on the rates of loss of dry mass and nutrient content of leaf litter over 1 year in three plots in each of three contrasting forest types in central Amazonia: the stunted facies of heath forest known as campina (SHF), the taller facies of heath forest known as campinarana (THF), both on spodosols, and the surrounding lowland evergreen rain forest (LERF) on ultisol. Pairs of bags filled with freshly fallen leaves from the trees of Clitoria fairchildiana (Fabaceae) were placed on the litter layer; in order to prevent roots entering the control bag in each pair that bag was lifted from the forest floor and turned over each week, while the treatment bag was left undisturbed. From each plot, four pairs of litter bags were retrieved after 30, 60, 120, 180, 270 and 360 d, and all roots that had grown into the litterbags were carefully removed. The leaves and roots from each bag were oven-dried for nutrient analysis. In no forest type was there a significant difference in the rate of loss of dry matter from the litter between the bags with and without roots. The amounts of roots invading the litter bags increased significantly in the sequence SHF < THF < LERF. In no forest did the presence of roots have a significant effect on the rate of disappearance of N or P from the leaf material, or on the rate of accumulation of Fe and Al. In the SHF there was no significant effect of invasion by roots on the rates of disappearance of Ca, Mg, Mn or Zn, but in the THF, the rates of disappearance of these four elements between 270 and 360 d were significantly greater in the presence of roots. In the LERF the results were similar, but the effects of roots started earlier--the rates of disappearance of Ca and Mg were significantly enhanced between 120 and 360 d. The results from the SHF may be interpreted to suggest that the growth of fine roots (and their fungal associates) upward into leaf litter is unlikely to be explained wholly by their role in the efficient recovery of mineral nutrients.
20146891|The roles of herbivory and pollination success in plant reproduction have frequently been examined, but interactions between these two factors have gained much less attention. In three field experiments, we examined whether artificial defoliation affects allocation to attractiveness to pollinators, pollen production, female reproductive success and subsequent growth in Platanthera bifolia L. (Rich.). We also recorded the effects of inflorescence size on these variables. We studied the effects of defoliation on reproductive success of individual flowers in three sections of inflorescence. Defoliation and inflorescence size did not have any negative effects on the proportion of opened flowers, spur length, nectar production or the weight of pollinia. However, we found that hand-pollination increased relative seed production and defoliation decreased seed set in most cases. Interactions between hand-pollination and defoliation were non-significant indicating that defoliation did not affect female reproductive success indirectly via decreased pollinator attraction. Plants with a large inflorescence produced relatively more seeds than plants with a small inflorescence only after hand-pollination. The negative effect of defoliation on relative capsule production was most clearly seen in the upper sections of the inflorescence. In addition to within season effects of leaf removal, defoliated P. bifolia plants may also have decreased lifetime fitness as a result of lower seed set within a season and because of a lower number of reproductive events due to decreased plant size (leaf area) following defoliation. Our study thus shows that defoliation by herbivores may crucially affect reproductive success of P. bifolia.
20146914|The way herbivores select what to eat is of considerable practical and theoretical interest, and has given rise to different theories and hypotheses. The plant vigour hypothesis predicts that herbivores feed preferentially on vigorous, i.e., large and/or fast-growing plants or plant parts. These predictions have previously primarily been tested on variation within plant species. Here we test whether differences in vigour among plant species in the same environment can explain differences in herbivore attack. We studied variation in browsing pressure by a guild of large herbivores on different woody species in an African savanna ecosystem. Shoot growth rate, annual shoot length, basal shoot diameter and annual shoot volume of 14 woody plant species were measured in the field. Plant species' shoot vigour represented by the first PCA axis scores generated from the four shoot variables were then related to browsing pressure (% utilisation) on each of the species by native ungulates and elephant. Nutrient and fibre concentrations and tannin activity were also determined for the 14 woody plant species. We found ungulate browsing pressure to show a unimodal relationship with plant species' shoot vigour. The heaviest browsing pressure was on plant species with shoots of intermediate vigour. We suggest that species with less vigorous shoots had low nutrient and high fibre concentrations and offered small bite sizes, whereas species with vigorous shoots had high nutrient concentrations but larger shoot diameters than the bite diameters of browsing ungulates. Elephant browsing pressure was not related to plant species' shoot vigour.
20051246|Leaf demography and growth of six common, co-occurring woody plant species that varied in stature (tree vs. shrub) and leaf texture (sclerophyllous, coriaceous, malacophyllous) were examined in a subtropical savanna parkland in southern Texas, USA. We tested the hypotheses that, (a) leaves of plants with evergreen canopies would have longer life spans than those of deciduous species; (b) supplementation of soil moisture would decrease leaf life span in both evergreen and deciduous species; (c) species responses to increased soil moisture availability would be inversely related to leaf longevity; and (d) deciduous growth forms would exhibit a greater growth response to increased soil moisture availability than their evergreen counterparts. A variety of seasonal leaf habits (evergreen, winter-deciduous and summer-deciduous canopies) and leaf life spans (median = 66 to 283 days) were represented by the targeted species, but there was no clear relationship between seasonal leaf habit and leaf longevity. Among species with evergreen canopies, median leaf longevity ranged from short (Zanthoxylum fagara = 116 days; Condalia hookeri = 158 days) to long (Berberis trifoliolata = 283 days) but did not exceed 1 yr. In fact, leaf longevity in evergreen shrubs was often comparable to, or shorter than, that of species with deciduous canopies (Ziziphus obtusifolia = 66 days; Diospyros texana = 119 days; Prosopis glandulosa = 207 days). Augmentation of surface soil moisture had no detectable effect on median leaf life span in any species and there was no clear relationship between leaf longevity and species growth responses to irrigation. Contrary to expectations, species with evergreen canopies responded to irrigation by producing more leaf biomass, longer shoots and more leaf cohorts/year than did deciduous species. Species differences in the annual cycle of leaf initiation, leaf longevity and canopy development, combined with contrasts in root distributions and a highly variable climate, may allow for spatial and temporal partitioning of resources and hence, woody species coexistence and diversity in this system. However, the lack of expected relationships between leaf longevity, leaf habit and plant responses to resource enhancement suggests that structure-function relationships and functional groupings developed in strongly seasonal environments cannot be applied with confidence to these subtropical savannas and thorn woodlands.
20050524|A program package is described in which vegetation data can be objectively classified and analysed. Classification is based on minimum entropy. Results show that in a comparison with TWINSPAN, improvements to the relev sequence, in terms of community variation, can be obtained. Furthermore, TWINSPAN classifications are shown to be dependent on a particular relev input sequence.
41508688|Positive feedback between invasive and native plants may contribute to invasive species dominance, although this pattern may not be general for all invasions and has not been well explored in woodland systems. We examined the pairwise feedback relationship between Euonymus fortunei, an emerging invader of North American deciduous forests, and Asarum canadense, a co-occuring native groundcover, to determine whether positive feedback might contribute to Euonymus dominance. In a greenhouse in Bloomington, Indiana, USA, we conditioned live woodland soil via growth with either Euonymus or Asarum, then used conditioned soils to inoculate monocultures and pairwise mixtures of each species. After eight weeks, we harvested plants and measured percent growth. We found evidence for positive plant-soil feedback between Euonymus and Asarum. Euonymus grew better in soil conditioned by conspecifics than in soil conditioned by Asarum, whereas total Asarum growth was not different in soil conditioned by conspecifics vs. Euonymus. These results held whether Euonymus and Asarum grew in monoculture or pairwise competition. This study supports a role for positive plant-soil feedback as a driving factor behind the invasion of Euonymus fortunei. Future work should examine the role of abiotic vs. biotic factors in mediating feedback between Euonymus and Asarum. Furthermore, researchers should examine pairwise feedback between Euonymus and other native species in order to better understand the role of positive feedback in Euonymus invasion. By evaluating the importance of this and other possible invasion mechanisms, we can improve our understanding of invasion ecology while facilitating management of harmful invasive species.
20050725|Northern Tierra del Fuego is the insular extreme of the Magellanic steppe, a unique example of a cold-temperate oceanic grassland in South America. We surveyed this poorly known region with a landscape-based procedure to classify plant communities and investigate environmental gradients. Sampling sites were selected with the aid of aerial photos, and floristic composition, soil, topography and landform type were recorded in each site. Classification was achieved with Two-Way Indicator Species Analysis and gradients were analyzed with Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Two broad groups of communities were separated by the presence of typical acidophilous dwarf shrubs: acidophilous/mesotrophic and neutrophilous vegetation. Along the main floristic gradient, ericoid dwarf shrubs were replaced by forbs and grasses as soil acidity decreased. The acidic habitats were on Pleistocene glacial and alluvial deposits, and had coarse texture, poorly decomposed organic matter, and low base status. The eutrophic habitats were on Tertiary rocks of medium to fine texture and had well-decomposed organic matter and high base status. A second axis of variation was associated to latitudinal position and slope aspect, revealing a precipitation/evaporation gradient. Scrubs dominated by midheight shrubs, with species from the southern forests, were at the humid extreme (higher latitudes/south aspects); and short grass steppes, with taxa commonly found further North in the continent, at the xeric end (lower latitudes/north aspects). Although fertility and moisture seem to control the overall floristic gradient, the extreme vegetation types of the fertility gradient, both having a very simple structure, could be attributed to grazing disturbance. Floristics and ecology of the Fuegian steppe resemble to a certain degree some boreal oceanic systems.
40305738|Our aim is to determine the population dynamics of Fagus sylvatica L. during the last 4,000 cal. BP in NW Iberia and the causes of its spatial and temporal patterns, previous palaeoecological studies having shown that between the Upper Pleistocene and the recent Holocene Fagus survived in this region. A number of pollen sites have allowed a reconstruction of the regional dynamics of Fagus from the Last Glaciation to the present. Specifically, two high-resolution pollen sequences located in both extremes of the Cantabrian region were analysed to discuss the beech forest dynamics during the last four millennia. Beech pollen percentages increased progressively to dominant species levels in eastern Cantabria, but only brief, minor increases are recorded in the west, where they never exceeded 2%. The expansion in the east shows three well-defined stages: an initial increase that lasted up to about 2,500 cal. BP, coinciding with a general increase in total tree pollen throughout the Cantabrian Mountains; a stage lasting between 2,500 and 1,500 cal. BP, in which Fagus pollen levels fluctuated while total tree pollen percentages began to decline and Ericaceae to increase; and a final further increase peaking around 1,250 cal. BP. The first stage (ca. 4,000-2,500 cal. BP) probably formed part of the final ascent of the tree line at the end of the mid-Holocene as the consequence of climatic improvement. Its maintenance during the second stage, while other tree species began to recede under unstable environmental conditions, is attributable to displacement of other genera such as Corylus and Quercus. Its final peak may have been facilitated by human disturbance of woodland, Fagus being a competitive species readily able to take advantage of such disturbances. That no such process occurred in the western Cantabrian area may be due to both the direct biological influence of harsher climatic conditions, and the lack of interest by human populations in settling highlands, which is attributable both to this climatic factor and to the fact that, compared with the east, this area has a greater extent of lowland and wide flat valleys where settlements were concentrated.
20051030|Inventories of trees and lianas were performed at a 13-year interval (1979-1992) in an evergreen forest in north-east Gabon. The number of trees decreased while their basal area and species richness increased. In contrast, both the richness and density of lianas decreased. Lianas with active climbing mechanisms were the main types to disappear.
41429367|Climate change projections forecast a warming and an associated change in the distribution and intensity of rainfalls. In the case of the Mediterranean area, this will be reflected in more frequent and severe drought periods in the future. Within a longterm (9 years) manipulation experiment, we aimed to study the effect of the soil drought (15-20% decreased soil moisture) and warming conditions (+ 1  C warming) projected for the next decades onto photosynthetic rates and water relations, and onto the antioxidant and anti-stress defense capacity of Erica multiflora, a common species of the dry Mediterranean coastal scrublands, in two different seasons, spring and summer. Results indicated that none of the applied treatments was severe enough to induce a pronounced negative response of photosynthesis in this species well adapted to harsh Mediterranean conditions, but also highlighted important seasonal differences. Photosynthesis was limited by photoinhibition in spring and by stomatal closure in summer. Isoprenoid emission and the level of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants were lower in summer than in spring, whereas pigment and total phenolic contents were generally higher in summer. Volatile isoprenoid emissions were largely inhibited by drought and were not stimulated by warming. Drought and warming increased the oxidation state of ascorbate and reduced total glutathione levels in spring, but not in summer. It is concluded that E. multiflora plants can adapt to prolonged drought and warming, at least at the level simulated by our manipulative experiment, through changes in the seasonal physiological and antioxidant response of leaves.
40305625|The destruction and fragmentation of tropical forests are major sources of global biodiversity loss. A better understanding of anthropogenically altered landscapes and their relationships with species diversity and composition is needed in order to protect biodiversity in these environments. The spatial patterns of a landscape may control the ecological processes that shape species diversity and composition. However, there is little information about how plant diversity varies with the spatial configuration of forest patches especially in fragmented tropical habitats. The northeastern part of Puerto Rico provides the opportunity to study the relationships between species richness and composition of woody plants (shrubs and trees) and spatial variables [i. e., patch area and shape, patch isolation, connectivity, and distance to the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF)] in tropical forest patches that have regenerated from pasturelands. The spatial data were obtained from aerial color photographs from year 2000. Each photo interpretation was digitized into a GIS package, and 12 forest patches (2434 years old) were selected within a study area of 28 km. The woody plant species composition of the patches was determined by a systematic floristic survey. The species diversity (Shannon index) and species richness of woody plants correlated positively with the area and the shape of the forest patch. Larger patches, and patches with more habitat edge or convolution, provided conditions for a higher diversity of woody plants. Moreover, the distance of the forest patches to the LEF, which is a source of propagules, correlated negatively with species richness. Plant species composition was also related to patch size and shape and distance to the LEF. These results indicate that there is a link between landscape structure and species diversity and composition and that patches that have similar area, shape, and distance to the LEF provide similar conditions for the existence of a particular plant community. In addition, forest patches that were closer together had more similarity in woody plant species composition than patches that were farther apart, suggesting that seed dispersal for some species is limited at the scale of 10 km.
20050574|Seedlings of the Mediterranean shrub Cistus creticus L. were grown in the field under ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation (simulating a 15% ozone depletion over Patras, 38.3W, 29.1E) for 20 months. During this period, measurements of photosynthetic capacity, photochemical efficiency of PS II, chlorophylls and carotenoids were performed once per season. Supplemental UV-B radiation had no significant effect on these parameters nor on the total, above ground biomass accumulation, plant height and leaf specific mass measured at plant harvest. It was observed, however, that UV-B supplementation increased the number of seeds per fruit as well as mean individual seed mass. As a result, seed number and total seed mass per plant were considerably increased. Germination rates of produced seeds were not affected. We may conclude that C. creticus is a UV-B resistant plant whose competitive ability may be improved by enhanced UV-B radiation through an increase in its reproductive effort and a higher contribution to the seed bank.
40305469|We evaluated the importance of alien species in existing vegetation along wadeable streams of a large, topographically diverse river basin in eastern Oregon, USA; sampling 165 plots (30 x 30 m) across 29 randomly selected 1-km stream reaches. Plots represented eight streamside community types associated with varying elevation, precipitation, and landform. Mantel comparisons, non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS), and Spearman correlation identified relationships of alien species (n = 60) distribution and relative alien cover (RAC) to native species (n = 355) composition, 28 vegetation descriptors, 31 environmental variables, and 30 disturbance conditions. Alien species occurred in 93% of sample plots, in all community types, and along all sampled stream reaches; with RAC ranging from 0.1% to 47% and 1 to 24 alien species occurring along individual stream reaches.Alien richness and RAC were positively related to native diversity where invasion was limited (RAC < 5%), but negatively where invasion was more severe (RAC > 5%). RAC differed among community types: greatest in arid associations (shrubland/grassland), followed by associations with limited tree canopy cover (meadows, dry forest), and lowest in moist, closed forest associations; suggesting differences in invasion status or vulnerabilities to alien invasion among community types. Alien species, as a group had wider ecological amplitude than natives, and species composition among community types was less distinct when both alien and natives were considered compared to native species only. RAC was negatively related to elevation, precipitation, and tree cover; while positive relationships of RAC occurred with grazing pressure, upstream watershed size, stream order, overall level of exogenous disturbance, limited vegetated buffer, agriculture in the upstream watershed, floodplain or south facing slope locations, and proximity to roads. Taken together, these results suggest possible ecological consequences to streamside vegetation related to alien species and identify indicators of conditions, where invasion may be greatest, offering potential for informing decisions for monitoring and managing alien species.
20051156|We conducted a study analyzing the vegetation dynamics in four communities along an elevational gradient in the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains and compared our results with previous research conducted in 1981. The objective of this study was to determine whether the successional plant community trajectories hypothesized by the original investigator (Marr) in 1953 were consistent with plant community parameters measured in subsequent years. The ponderosa pine and Douglas-fir/ponderosa pine communities' herbaceous composition remained relatively constant between 1981 and 1996; however, a few individual species in both communities experienced significant changes in frequency over time. These individual species changes, along with dominant shifts in the forest canopy, were inconsistent with Marr's original successional hypotheses for these stands that stated the ponderosa pine stand would remain dominated by ponderosa pine and grassy openings and the Douglas-fir/ponderosa pine stand would eventually have equal dominance between the two tree species. The aspen herbaceous community experienced the most significant change between 1981 and 1996. Significant decreases in species richness and diversity were recorded along with large changes in species composition and frequencies of individual species. These changes were associated with successional changes in the forest canopy, which was congruent with Marr's successional hypothesis for this stand. The kobresia meadow herbaceous community showed the least change between 1981 and 1996 among the four communities; however, there was variation in frequency percentages for a few individual species over time and a small turnover in species composition. Marr's hypothesis that this stand represented a climax community is consistent with our results.
20050944|We investigated the effect of leaf litter on the establishment of Eucalyptus incrassata, a mallee eucalypt. It has been suggested that litter accumulation may hinder seedling establishment, and that the removal of litter may be one of the mechanisms through which fire enhances recruitment. We conducted factorial experiments testing the effects of three kinds of leaf litter on E. incrassata seeds and seedlings at three contiguous sites with different land use histories. One site was an uncleared E. incrassata open mallee woodland (Mallee site), one a cleared area that had been ungrazed for about five years (Pasture site) and the third an area of mallee rolled some 40 years ago and permitted to regenerate (Regrowth site). Litter had no effect on emergence of planted E. incrassata seeds, but emergence differed between sites. Overall, the percentage of seeds that germinated and emerged was substantial (mean 35.2%  25.9%). Seedling shoot biomass did not differ between sites or litter treatments. Although seedlings grown in Pasture litter suffered higher mortality rates, overall mortality rates were low (mean 13.2%  15.5%), suggesting that leaf litter has little effect on recruitment rates during winter and spring. We conclude that leaf litter does not affect emergence or growth in young E. incrassata seedlings during winter and spring, when most establishment occurs. Our results emphasize the difficulty in predicting litter effects on recruitment.
20051269|UV-B radiation is absorbed effectively by nucleic acids and other sensitive targets, potentially causing harmful photochemical effects. Protection against UV-B radiation may be afforded by flavonoids and other phenolics, which absorb strongly in the UV region, but little is known about the role played by other compounds, such as terpenes. Grindelia chiloensis, native of Patagonia (Argentina), can accumulate as much as 25% resin (terpenes) in its leaves. The present investigation was carried out to test the effect of solar UV-B radiation on the allocation of photoassimilates to biomass and terpenes. Exposure to UV-B radiation reduced whole plant biomass, plant height and leaf area, and increased leaf thickness and resin accumulation in Grindelia chiloensis. Higher absorbance was found for refined resin in the UV-B waveband from plants grown under solar UV-B radiation than plants without UV-B radiation. These chemical and structural changes could protect the plant from UV radiation, and may help elucidate the importance of epicuticular resins for a species as G. chiloensis native to an environment with maximum daily integrated values of solar UV-B irradiance.
40212973|The Sky Island archipelagos of the Sierra Madre Occidental contain diverse, highly endemic, and topographically complex ecosystems, yet the local and landscape-scale controls on woody plant dominance and diversity patterns are poorly understood. This study examines variation in woody plant species composition in relation to a suite of environmental variables (i. e., elevation, potential soil moisture, soil type, geologic substrate, and heat load) in the Chiricahua National Monument, Arizona (CHIR). Nine vegetation types were identified using cluster analysis that varied by species composition and plant life form. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and correlation analyses identified significant relationships between vegetation composi- tion and elevation, potential soil moisture, and heat load. Rarefied species richness varied among vegetation types, and in relation to topography, with higher species richness occurring on more topographically complex sites.  (species turnover) and y (landscape) diversity were also high in CHIR compared to other temperate forests. This study highlights the importance of local- and landscape-scale environmental controls on species diversity and vegetation patterns in Madrean evergreen woodlands.
40305664|We tested whether differences in the herbivory tolerance of plant species is related to their abundance in grassland communities and how herbivory and nutrient availability affect competitive balances among plant species through changes in their tolerance. The experimental approach involved a simulated grazing treatment (clipping) of two competitive grass species (Arrhenathemm elatius and Holcus lanatus) and two subordinate forb species {Prunella vulgaris and Lotus corniculatus) along a gradient of nutrient availability and under conditions of competition. Total standing, aboveground, root,and regrowth biomass were evaluated at the end of the experiment as an estimate of the capacity to compensate for twice removing aboveground biomass at different nutrient levels (NPK). Although clipping had a more pronounced negative effect on dominant plant species (Arrhenatherum and Holcus) than on subordinate species, the negative effects on dominant species were offset by the application of fertilizer. The combined effect of fertilizer and competition had more negative effects on the performance of Lotus and Prunella than on the dominant species. In terms of competition, the regrowth ability of Arrhenatherum and Holcus increased with the application of fertilizer, while the opposite pattern was observed for Lotus and Prunella. The addition of fertilizer has a positive effect on both grass species in terms of growth in clipped pots and competition, while subordinate species did not respond to the addition of fertilizer to the clipped pots and were negatively affected by competition with both grass species. The results suggest (1) that species replacement towards subordinate species as a function of herbivory is partially dependent on the herbivory tolerance of that species, (2) competitive relations between competitive grass species and subordinate forb species change under different environmental conditions, and (3) although grazing disturbance significantly influences competitive relations in favor of less competitive species, increasing nutrient levels counteract the negative effect of grazing on dominant competitive plant species.
20051188|Patterns of vascular plant diversity in Denmark are examined, based on the most recently published Danish Flora. The highest diversity is found on the major isles of Sjlland, Mn, Falster and Bornholm, but many rare taxa occur in Jylland. Two different cluster analyses suggest a division of Denmark into six phytogeographical regions, which only partly supports earlier, more subjective divisions of Denmark. Our results suggest that north- and northwestern Jylland and the isles of Ls and Anholt belong to the boreo-nemoral phytogeographical region, due to their high number of northern taxa, which clearly differentiate them from the rest of Denmark, despite the lack of typical boreo-nemoral tree species, such as Pinus sylvestris. Because the tree component of vegetation often has been changed by man, the classical division of Scandinavia based on a few woody species is inappropriate. We conclude that tree-species oriented approaches are invalid for phytogeographical classifications. Classification, based on the whole flora, and if possible also involving environmental information, is likely to be more successful and should be addressed in future phytogeographical studies.
20146966|There is little consensus on the form of the relationship between biodiversity and productivity, and most of the research examining it has been done in temperate grasslands, with arid ecosystems receiving comparatively little attention. Using 9 years of data collected using standardized sampling methods from five different community types in the Chihuahuan Desert (Jornada Basin Long-Term Ecological Research site, New Mexico, USA), we evaluate the relationship between productivity and species richness at multiple spatial scales. The relationship was consistently unimodal at the largest scale considered; however, community types differed in both the form of the relationship and the degree to which patterns fluctuated over time. Although significant linear and unimodal patterns were evident, these models fit poorly, suggesting that annual primary productivity is a weak predictor of mean species richness in arid communities. We suggest that productivity-diversity relationships are best described by a boundary that places an upper limit on species coexistence across the gradient of productivity for a site. This upper limit often appears to be maximized at intermediate levels of productivity, but it has relatively few points on the downward portion of the boundary. By focusing efforts on characterizing boundaries, approaches should be developed to determine the factors that are reducing species richness compared to what would be expected, given the level of productivity.
20146697|The study described changes in floristic and vegetation structure in relation to livestock grazing intensity in a conservation area in the Succulent Karoo, South Africa. Grazing by goats and sheep is allowed in the Richtersveld National Park (a contractual National Park) which is also an area of high floristic richness and endemism. We used goat faecal pellet density, degree of trampling and percentage bare-ground at distances from the stock posts as surrogates for a gradient in grazing pressure. A stock post is the place where farmers keep, in most cases in an enclosure called a 'kraal', their animals at night and to which they return every evening after the day's herding. Twenty-seven stock posts were located in the Richtersveld National Park; nine stock posts on flats, footslopes and mountain each. We measured plant species richness and diversity, and mean percentage cover of the various plant growth forms (including the number of species falling into each growth form category) in each of the five 10 m  10 m plots (each 200 m apart) demarcated along a transect of one kilometre length from the centre of each stock post. The results showed that distance from the stock post does reflect grazing intensity use because densities in faecal pellets rapidly declined with increasing distances away from the stock post for all habitats studied. Faecal density was positively correlated with stocking density. Plant species richness and diversity was at a minimum near stock posts. Plants able to endure the effects of heavy grazing occurred near stock posts where declines in palatable plant species, assumingly sensitive to heavy grazing and trampling, were recorded. Grazing increased vegetation patchiness up to 800 m from the stock post for all the habitats. The degree to which this change in species composition occurred did not depend on stocking densities, suggesting that both grazing and landscape variability were responsible for vegetation changes in rangelands of that area of the Succulent Karoo biome.
23267390|Rapid range expansions are becoming more prevalent, especially as climate continues to change. The escape of ornamental plants within their native range represents a significant, but often overlooked component of this process. Few studies have focused on the role of ornamental plants in range expansions using molecular markers to identify the possibility of mixed native and cultivar populations. The purpose of the present study was to determine the genetic variation of a native woody plant with ornamental conspecifics at the edge of its distribution. We selected Ilex aquifolium L. (English holly) which grows naturally in Denmark but is spreading eastward in Scandinavia, possibly due to a combination of climate change and introduction of more frost-tolerant cultivars. We sampled 187 individuals from older and recently established populations, and cultivated I. aquifolium throughout Denmark, and compared them using nuclear SSR and AFLP. The overall results showed no structure or clustering of plants from the historical or the expanding range, or of wild or cultivated plants. The only clusters found were for a group of cultivated hybrid I. aquifolium. The samples represented four genetic groupings, indicating either hybridization between cultivated and wild I. aquifolium or replacement of the latter by cultivars. Thus, ornamental genotypes of I. aquifolium contribute to the northeastern range expansion of the species and eventual invasiveness within its native range.
40305602|Across different host plant species, the effects of mycorrhizal colonization on host growth parameters can vary, but intraspecific variation in this relationship has rarely been measured. We tested the direction and consistency of the relationship between ectomycorrhizal colonization level and growth responses across seed families oiPinus contorta var. latifolia. Root tips of seedlings from eight full sib seed families varied in levels of ectomycorrhizal fungal colonization from 39% to 100%. We observed positive, negative, or neutral relationships between colonization level and shoot mass, depending on plant family. For the majority of seed families no relationship was observed between colonization level and root mass; however, two seed families showed negative relationships. Shoot height differed only by seed family. Results from our study indicate that the relationship between colonization level and host growth depends on host genotype. We suggest that models of plant intraspecific interactions should consider ectomycorrhizal associations when assessing phenotypic variability.
20146520|Although the perennial grass Dactylis glomerata L. has established dominant populations in Japan since its introduction in the 1870s, there have been marked reductions in its abundance in southern and northeastern regions. In order to examine the effects of climatic factors on distribution and differentiation of the naturalized populations of D. glomerata, abundance of 26 populations over a distance of 1500 km along a latitudinal gradient was recorded at each site, and life-history traits of each population were measured in a common garden. It was found that the reduction in abundance was related to the mean summer temperature in southern regions and to the lowest temperature before snow cover in northeastern regions. Recent climatic records in Japan show an increase in the mean summer temperature but no apparent changes in the lowest temperature before snow cover. These data suggest that, assuming the recent trend in climatic changes continues, the population abundance will decrease in southern regions and will change little in the northeastern regions. Germination speed, leaf width and reproductive allocations showed clinal variation over a geographical range, and the southern populations had more rapid germination, narrower leaves and lower reproductive allocation than did the northern populations. On the other hand, seed size and germination date showed margin-center differentiation. Marginal populations in both distributional borders had smaller seeds and lower germination rates than did the central populations.
20050819|Soil samples from three microhabitats (gaps, beneath shrubs and beneath trees) in five stands of various post-fire ages (6-55 years) were collected in an east Mediterranean Aleppo pine Pinus halepensis forest. Total germinable seed bank densities varied between 300 and 1300 seeds per m. Herbaceous taxa were the major constituents of the germinable seed bank in gaps, regardless of stand age. Perennials were the major components beneath shrubs in all stands except the youngest stand where herbaceous species were the major components in all microhabitats. Important tree and shrub species (e.g., Pinus halepensis, Quercus calliprinos, Pistacia lentiscus, Phillyrea latifolia) of the mature pine forest were not an important component of the soil seed bank and therefore, little resemblance was observed between the above-ground plant species composition and soil seed bank composition. This is consistent with the fact that these species regenerate by resprouting rather than by germination from the seed bank. Both microhabitats and forest-stands, which were of different ages, contributed to the variation in taxa richness, germinable seed density and diversity among samples. The effect of small-scale spatial heterogeneity (among microhabitats) was much more pronounced. In contrast to other studies, species richness, species diversity, and density of seed banks did not decrease with post-fire age. Moreover, stand age was a poor predictor for these attributes of the soil seed bank in an Aleppo pine forest. The heterogeneity plays an important role in conservation and management of this ecosystem.
20051329|The influence of a population of the understorey woody bamboo Merostachys riedeliana and different flooding regimes on tree community dynamics in a section of tropical semideciduous forest in South-Eastern Brazil was examined. A forest section with an area of 1.6 ha composed of 71 adjacent plots was located on a slope ending at the river margin. The section was divided into five topographical sectors according to the mean duration of river floods. In 1991 and 1998 all trees with a diameter at the base of the trunk  5 cm were measured, identified and tagged, and all live bamboo culms were counted. Annualised estimates of the rates of tree mortality and recruitment, gain and loss of tree basal area, and change in bamboo density were calculated for each of the 71 plots and five topographical sectors as well as for diameter classes and tree species. To segregate patterns arising from spatially autocorrelated events, geostatistical analyses were used prior to statistical comparisons and correlations. In general, mortality rates were not compensated by recruitment rates but there was a net increase in basal area in all sectors, suggesting that the tree community as a whole was in a building phase. Tree community dynamics of the point bar forest (Depression and Leve sectors) differed from that of the upland forest (Ridgetop, Middle Slope and Lower Slope sectors) in the extremely high rates of gain in basal area. The predominant and specialised species, Inga vera and Salix humboldtiana, are probably favoured by relaxed competition in an environment stressed by long-lasting floods. In the upland forest, mortality rates were highest at the Middle Slope, particularly for smaller trees, while recruitment rates were lowest. As bamboo clumps were concentrated in this sector, the locally higher instability in the tree community probably resulted from the direct interference of bamboos. The density of bamboo culms in the upland forest was negatively correlated with the rates of tree recruitment and gain in basal area, and positively correlated with tree mortality rates. Bamboos therefore seemed to restrict the recruitment, growth and survival of trees.
40212919|Biological soil crusts are a universal and common feature in arid and semi-arid regions and their appearance profoundly affects soil surface properties which may greatly change the seed dispersal, germination and establishment. To date, only a handful of experiments have exerted to investigate the effects of crusts on vascular plants and the conclusions from these studies are variable. In this study, we investigate the influences of two different crusts universally spreading in southeastern part of the Tengger Desert with four chronosequences (24, 41, 50 years old in artificial Vegetation area and natural Vegetation crusts) on vascular plants. Crusts were placed at three different sites to simulate different environmental factors (wind velocity and soil crust moisture), we set two soil moisture regimes for crusts to investigate how vascular plants respond under different moisture regimes in crusts. Emergence densities of vascular plants were significantly higher in moss crust than in algae crust. With the development of crusts, seed emergence increased in moss crust while decreased in algae crust. As for effects of moisture, our results showed that soil moisture had a significant effect on seed emergence in both types of crusts at all developing phases. Crusts with higher moisture had more seedlings than those with lower moisture. The above results indicated that the appearance of crusts changed the surface soil properties, which had greatly influenced the entrapment and lodgement of seeds in the study area, thus subsequently influence seed emergence through affecting natural factors.
41429059|Soil seed banks play a major role in the post-fire regeneration of Mediterranean shrublands.They vary throughout the year in species composition, abundance, and readiness to germinate. After fire, germination occurs mainly during the following fall to spring. Time of germination can determine recruitment success. It is unclear what factors control postfire germination and its timing. We tested the effects of season and fire on the readily germinable soil seed bank of a seeder-dominated shrubland. Plots were burned early and late in the summer season (ES, LS).Soil samples were collected before and after fire, and germinated in a chamber simulating successively autumn, winter, and spring conditions. Samples were kept moistened at all times. Fire intensity was similar between ES and LS. Several species of Cistus and herbs, mostly annuals, were dominant. Most germination occurred during the simulated-autumn period, with little subsequent germination during the following two periods. Germination speed (T) during simulated-autumn was similar for shrubs and herbs, and independent of season or fire. Germination was lower for two shrubs (Rosmarinus officinalis, Cistus salvifolius) and higher for herbaceous dicots in LS than in ES soils. Fire reduced monocots and enhanced Cistus. Germination period significantly interacted with fire and season in some groups or species, altering the simulated-autumn germination peak. We demonstrate that the seed bank can germinate swiftly under simulated-autumn conditions. Hence, water availability is the main controlling factor of germination. Fire season differentially affected some species or groups, and could affect the post-fire regeneration.
20146831|The mechanisms by which invasive species affect native communities are not well resolved. For example, invasive plants may influence other species through competition, altered ecosystem processes, or other pathways. We investigated one potential mechanism by which invasive plants may harm native species, allelopathy. Specifically, we explored whether native tree species respond differently to potential allelopathic effects of two invasive plant species. We assessed the separate effects of Lolium arundinaceam (tall fescue) and Elaeagnus umbellata (autumn olive) on three common successional tree species: Acer saccharinum (silver maple), Populus deltoides (eastern cottonwood), and Platanus occidentalis (sycamore). Tall fescue and autumn olive are widely planted and highly invasive or persistent throughout North America where they often grow in forest edges, old fields, and other sites colonized by pioneering tree species. In an exploratory greenhouse experiment, we applied aqueous extracts derived from soil, leaf litter, or live leaves to native trees. We compared these treatments to a sterile water control and also to minced leaves leached in water, a common, but potentially less realistic method of testing for allelopathy. For all tree species, minced leaves from tall fescue reduced the probability that seedlings emerged, and minced leaves of autumn olive reduced the number of days to emergence. During other demographic stages, the three native tree species diverged in their responses to the invasive plants. Platanus occidentalis exhibited the widest range of responses, with reduced root biomass due to minced tissue from both invasive species, reduced days to emergence and marginally reduced survival from minced tall fescue, and reduced leaf biomass from tall fescue leaf litter. Populus deltoides appeared insensitive to most extracts, although survival was marginally increased with application of minced or fresh leaf extracts from autumn olive. In addition, minced tall fescue shortened the time to seedling emergence for Acer saccharinum, potentially a positive effect. Overall, results suggest that allelopathy may be one mechanism underlying the negative impacts of tall fescue and autumn olive on other plant species, but that effects can depend strongly upon the source of allelochemicals and the tree specis examined.
41412382|Recent studies have shown significant impacts of past landscapes on present distributions of species, and discussed the existence of an extinction debt. Understanding of the processes building an extinction debt is fundamentally important for explaining present and future diversity patterns of species in fragmented landscapes. Few empirical studies, however, have examined the responses of different plant functional groups (PFGs) to historical landscape changes. We aimed to reveal PFG-based differences in species' persistence by focusing on their vegetative, reproductive, and dispersal traits. We examined whether the present distributions of PFGs of grassland species in the edges of remnant woodlands established on former semi-natural grasslands are related to the past surrounding landscapes at different time periods and spatial scales. The effects of past landscapes varied significantly among the PFGs. Richness of short, early flowering forbs and tall, late-flowering, wind-dispersed forbs showed significant positive relationships with the surrounding habitat proportions more than 50 years ago (the 1950s) and at wide spatial scales (more than 1 km). Richness of tall, late-flowering forbs with unassisted and other types of dispersal mechanisms showed positive relationships with the surrounding habitat proportions in recent times (the 1970s) and at smaller spatial scales (0.25 km). Our results suggested that plant growth form, flowering season and dispersal abilitywith additional information on seed bank persistencecan be good indicators for identifying species' specific sensitivity to surrounding habitat loss. Trait-based approaches can be useful for understanding present and future distributions of grassland species with different persistence strategies in human-modified landscapes. past surrounding landscapes at different time periods and spatial scales. The effects of past landscapes varied significantly among the PFGs. Richness of short, early flowering forbs and tall, late-flowering, wind-dispersed forbs showed significant positive relationships with the surrounding habitat proportions more than 50 years ago (the 1950s) and at wide spatial scales (more than 1 km). Richness of tall, late-flowering forbs with unassisted and other types of dispersal mechanisms showed positive relationships with the surrounding habitat proportions in recent times (the 1970s) and at smaller spatial scales (0.25 km). Our results suggested that plant growth form, flowering season and dispersal abilitywith additional information on seed bank persistencecan be good indicators for identifying species' specific sensitivity to surrounding habitat loss. Trait-based approaches can be useful for understanding present and future distributions of grassland species with different persistence strategies in human-modified landscapes.
41508739|Effects of watering amount and frequency on root biomass accumulation and taproot elongation were examined 16-17 days post-germination in seedlings of Larrea tridentata, a dominant shrub in North American hot deserts. Two experimental variables manipulated in a full factorial design greenhouse study were (i) number of "triggering" days: consecutive days (2,3,4 or 5) at the start of the experiment on which seedlings received 10 mm of water per day; and (ii) "post-trigger" watering frequency: 5 mm of water either daily or every other day. We hypothesized that taproot elongation would increase with greater numbers of triggering days, whereas higher post-trigger watering frequency would enhance root biomass development. Increasing the number of triggering days from two to four promoted taproot extension without affecting root biomass, and higher watering frequency in the post-trigger phase generally increased root biomass, as expected. Contrary to expectations, root biomass and taproot length were significantly reduced when daily watering followed five consecutive triggering days. Taproot length correlated with root biomass, but irrigation regime also had a biomass-independent effect: with either two or five triggering days, taproots were shorter than expected based on root biomass. Thus, both too little and too much water stymied taproot extension. In natural settings, the adverse response of taproots to too little or too much water could reduce seedling survivorship and restrict establishment to a narrow range of environmental conditions.
40802424|Despite species in the Rubus fruticosus complex (wild blackberry) being among the most invasive plants globally in regions with large annual fluctuations in water availability, little is known about their water relations. We compared water relations of a prominent member of the complex, R. armeniacus (Himalayan blackberry), with species native to the Pacific Northwest of North America (PNW), R. spectabilis (salmonberry) and R. parviflorus (thimbleberry). In eight stands of each species located near Portland, Oregon, USA, we measured mid-day hydraulic resistance (R plant ), and daily time series of stomatal conductance (g s ), leaf water potential ( 1f ), and environmental conditions at four time periods spanning the 2007 growing season. Although all species maintained  1f above  0.5 MPa in spring, R. armeniacus maintained less negative  1f (-1.0 MPa) than the natives in summer, a factor attributable to advantages in both its root and shoot systems. R plant of R. armeniacus was 0.1 MPa mmol m s for the duration of the study, and approximately 25-50% of R plant for the native species in summer. R. armeniacus had higher g s compared to the native species throughout the spring and summer, with approximately twice their rates in summer. Our R plant and g s results show that R. armeniacus has access to more water during PNW summers than congeneric natives, allowing it to maintain high water-use, and potentially helping it achieve higher growth and reproductive rates. Water relations may therefore be a critical component of the competitive and invasive success ofR. armeniacus and other R. fruticosus species worldwide.
40305752|Five species of stoloniferous plants originating from the same field site (Galeobdolon montanum, Glechoma hederacea, Potentilla anserina, Ranunculus repens and Trifolium repens) were studied with respect to their interaction with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. More specifically, the question was addressed whether mycorrhizal growth response of host plant species could be related to their vegetative mobility. The roots of all the species examined were colonised with AM fungi in the field, with the percentage of colonisation varying among species from approximately 40% to 90%. In a subsequent pot experiment, plants of all the species were either left non-inoculated or were inoculated with a mixture of three native AM fungi isolated from the site of plant origin (Glomus mosseae, G. intraradices and G. microaggregatum). AM fungi increased phosphorus uptake in all the plant species; however, plant growth response to inoculation varied widely from negative to positive. In addition to the biomass response, AM inoculation led to a change in clonal growth traits such as stolon number and length or ramet number in some species. Possible causes of the observed differences in mycorrhizal growth response of various stoloniferous plants are discussed.
20051166|Differences in competitive ability may explain the maintenance of existing plant populations and the invasion of new areas by plant species. We used field experiments to examine the competitive responses of Agropyron cristatum (L.) Gaertn., an introduced C grass, and Bouteloua gracilis (HBK.) Lag., a native C grass, and the competitive effects of Agropyron-dominated vegetation and successional prairie. We also tested whether the outcome of competitive interactions varied with water availability. In each vegetation type, transplants of each species were grown under two levels of competition (presence or absence of neighboring vegetation) and three levels of water availability (high, medium, or low). Transplant survival, growth, and biomass allocation patterns were measured. Water availability had no effect on the measured variables, suggesting that both species were limited by another resource. Growth rates were affected more by competition, while survival and root: shoot ratio were affected more by transplant species identity. In the successional prairie, neighboring vegetation suppressed the growth of Agropyron transplants less than that of Bouteloua transplants, suggesting that Agropyron has a stronger ability to resist competitive suppression in that vegetation type. The spread of Agropyron into surrounding vegetation may relate to its ability to resist competitive suppression. In the Agropyron-dominated vegetation, neighboring vegetation suppressed the growth of both species by the same extent. However, competition accounted for more variation in transplant growth in Agropyron-dominated vegetation than in successional prairie, suggesting that Agropyron has strong competitive effects which hinder plant growth and prevent other species from establishing in Agropyron fields.
41429365|The spatial heterogeneity of vegetation and soil increases in response to land degradation caused by grazing mainly at a large spatial scale. This increase has been frequently associated with shrub invasion, but shrub invasion does not necessarily accompany land degradation. Instead, dominance by unpalatable forbs has been reported in some regions, but the spatial heterogeneity of such degraded rangeland has not been studied. We investigated the spatial heterogeneity of rangeland dominated by unpalatable forbs at a large spatial scale using Mongolian rangeland as an example. Spatial heterogeneity of the total vegetation cover and community heterogeneity were analyzed for three levels of land degradation. We found that the least-degraded site had homogeneous total vegetation cover and community, that the site with intermediate degradation exhibited low heterogeneity of the total vegetation cover but significant community type variation, and that the most degrade sites exhibited a periodic pattern of total vegetation cover as a result of a mixture of dense and sparse patches of unpalatable forbs. These different responses can be used to assess land degradation levels and may have potential to monitor land degradation at a large scale by satellite images.
20146548|Desert pavements of white quartz stones (quartz fields) represent azonal habitats in several arid regions of southern Africa. The vegetation of these quartz fields is characterised by dwarf and highly succulent growth forms which contrast strongly with the shrubby vegetation of the surroundings. Incoming and reflected global solar radiation, air temperature near the ground, soil-surface temperatures and leaf-surface temperatures of dwarf plants were determined under natural habitat conditions inside and outside of the quartz fields. Surface temperatures of quartz and shale stones were compared. The study was conducted in the Knersvlakte and the Little Karoo (Succulent-Karoo Biome), South Africa. The daily maximum temperatures of the air near the ground of quartz fields was several degrees lower than the air near the ground of neighbouring soils without quartz cover. Maximum soil-surface temperatures of the quartz fields, however, were only lower in summer. Accordingly, the leave surfaces of dwarf plants (Aizoaceae) growing inside quartz fields were up to 3 K cooler than identical plants outside the quartz fields. The lower maximum temperatures is associated with an about 5% higher reflection of quartz fields compared to neighbouring soils without quartz cover. At night, the minimum temperatures of the air near the ground and the soil surface temperatures on quartz fields were above those of soils without quartz cover. The nocturnal surface temperatures of quartz stones did not differ considerably from that of shale and often ranged above the temperatures and dew-point of the ambient air. Consequently, the relatively cooler quartz fields seem to provide less adverse growing conditions for plants near the ground compared to surrounding soils without quartz cover.
20051182|To answer the question whether some inselbergs are better sources than others, thus potentially affecting processes in inselberg landscapes, inselberg-matrix affinities and the influence of regional physical environmental parameters (latitude, longitude, distance from coast and mainland) and parameters operating on landscape level (elevation and geology) were investigated. All investigated environmental parameters affected the observed patterns to some extend. Distance from mainland and geographic position were important on a regional level, while elevation only influenced the observed trends when investigated at a local level. Parameters determining "better sources" within the selected study areas and sites, here simply defined as showing higher floristic affinities with the surrounding, appeared to be inselbergs: (a) in southern Namibia and thus in an inland position; (b) at a distance from other mountainous habitats; and (c) of low elevation. Although the importance of inselbergs for conservation and maintenance of biodiversity is evident, this study points towards a complex situation, ruling out the sole effect of any one of the parameters investigated at regional and landscape level. Further observations and analysis at a local level may give some pointers and assist in identifying critical aspects important for conservation and range management.
20050749|The youngest parts of clonal plants benefit from substantial physiological support from older parts, but the extent to which this physiological dependence persists through time is poorly understood. The development of autonomy among connected subunits was therefore analysed in the clonal species Glechoma hederacea. The stolons of a series of clonal fragments with differing numbers of primary ramets were severed at a fixed point relative to the four oldest primary ramets. The subsequent growth of both parts of the severed fragments was compared with that of a series of intact fragments. The growth of apical stolon portions that included five or more rooted primary ramets at the time of severing was unaffected by severing. Apical portions with three or fewer rooted ramets at the time of severing produced fewer new primary ramets than equivalent parts of intact fragments, while apical portions with four or fewer rooted ramets produced less above-ground mass than equivalent apical portions of intact clonal fragments. Basal portions of clonal fragments severed when there were one or two rooted ramets in the apical portion produced more secondary ramet mass than equivalent parts of intact fragments. The gain in mass of secondary ramets in the basal portions of severed fragments matched the reduction in mass of secondary ramets in the apical portions. However, severing caused an overall loss of mass when apical portions had three or fewer rooted ramets at the time of severing, because the mass of primary ramets in basal portions did not increase following severing. Severing had little impact on the allometry of the apical portions. The relationship between mass in secondary ramets and mass in primary ramets was similar in the apical portions of severed and intact clonal fragments. None of the severing treatments increased the total mass of secondary ramets, suggesting that apical dominance in this species only affects branches very close to the apex. These observations, combined with existing knowledge of vascular architecture in G. hederacea, demonstrate that, whether or not physical connections persist between ramets, growing stolons rapidly develop into physiologically autonomous segments. This may be a characteristic of species that exploit disturbed, spatially heterogeneous habitats through rapid multiplication of ramets connected by long, aerial runners or stolons.
20146655|Persistent soil seed banks are presumed to play a significant role in bridging and exploiting the effects of major flood disturbances in riparian systems. However, presently there is little empirical data on the correlation between flooding and seed bank dynamics. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of inter-annual flooding variation on soil seed bank dynamics in flood-meadows. We analysed seed bank composition at 46 plots along the northern Upper Rhine River, Germany, after two periods with contrasting flooding conditions (1996-1997: low and rare flooding; 1998-1999 high and very frequent flooding). Between both sampling occasions the total number of seedlings emerging from the seed bank decreased by 50% and average species-richness per sample by 30%, irrespective of the sampling depth. Similar decline occurred in mesophytes and wetland species as well as over different functional groups, with the exception of legumes. Considerable compositional changes in the seed bank were also indicated by shifts in DCA ordination and by the comparison of similarity matrices from both years with the Mantel test. The Mantel test also confirmed that compositional changes were more pronounced in the seed bank than in aboveground vegetation. There was poor correlation between the decline in total seed densities and species in the soil seed bank and environmental variables such as flooding duration and ecological groupings such as floodplain compartment and seed bank community types. Further distinct patterns of decline and persistence were evident only at the species level. While 21 species displayed a significant decline, only two species increased. Annual arable weeds and perennial ruderals with high temperature or nutrient requirements to break dark dormancy were amongst the most significantly declining species. In contrast, there was no decline in typical winter annuals and certain perennials that preferably germinate in autumn and fall into dormancy at the beginning of the warm period. Generally, differences in germination requirements and dormancy cycles of species gave the best explanation for the patterns of decline and persistence after intense flooding. Given these findings, the heavy depletion of the persistent soil seed bank we observed is most likely attributed to a post-flood germination flush due to very favourable recruitment conditions prevailing during the draw-down period after early summer flooding in 1999. The results of our study suggest that persistent soil seed banks are of outstanding importance to bridge and exploit the highly variable hydrological conditions that are typical of flood-meadows. Thus, they play a significant role in maintaining the floristic diversity of this habitat type over time and space.
23362488|Soybean (Glycine max) agriculture is characterized by a high proportion of mono-cropping which results in reduced crop production in the Northeast China. Among all biotic and abiotic factors, changes in soil microbial communities induced by root activities, especially root exudates, might play an important role in these effects. The aim of the present study was to investigate response of microbial biomass and two major beneficial microbial functional groups, ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB), and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), to root exudates in an experimental field under continuous soybean mono-culture for 13 years. The results showed that microbial biomass carbon changed significantly with years of mono-cropping and correlated with concentrations of genistein (r = 0.4399, P < 0.001) and daidzein (r = 0.4082, P < 0.05) in the rhizosphere. However, root exudates had little effect on the nitrifier community, but reduced nitrification in the rhizosphere. In contrast, total AMF hyphal length was significantly stimulated by genistein (r = 0.5252, P < 0.01). There was a trend that AMF spore density increased in the rhizosphere with increasing years of mono-cropping, while AMF infection was constant over time, which might be attributed to competition between AMF and soil-borne fungal pathogens, as the results of stimulatory effect of flavonoids on fungal community, especially fungal pathogens. Our results suggested that the yield reduction in the beginning of continuous soybean monoculture could be partially attributed to nitrogen availability and yield stabilization after few years to stimulatory effects on AMF. These results imply that some of plant root exudates play a crucial role in changing the soil microbial community, and that underground ecosystem functioning is also affected by interactions among microbial functional groups.
41412372|Partial consumption of acorns by rodents, birds, and insects has been widely reported in various oak species. However, to what extent these partially eaten acorns contribute to the regeneration of oak trees is poorly understood. To date, there is limited knowledge of the effects of seed availability on partial consumption of acorns. Herein, we released tagged Quercus mongolica acorns in two consecutive years with different seed crops, to explore the probability of partial acorn consumption. We also placed simulated partially consumed acorns in the field to investigate their contribution to regeneration of white oak. Our results showed that more acorns were partially eaten in a good crop year than in poor crop year, reflecting an effect of predator satiation on acorn partial consumption by rodents at the population level. Partially eaten acorns were more likely to be damaged at the basal end, suggesting consistent consumption preferences of small rodents. Although, partially consumed acorns were less likely to be scatter-hoarded by small rodents, they germinated more rapidly than the intact acorns in the field, offsetting the negative effects of the non-buried deposition. Despite lower germination rates, lightly damaged acorns exhibited greater growth of roots and shoots, suggesting a compensatory response to partial acorn consumption. Partial consumption may spread prdation pressure on acorns and thus appears to be much better for the plant than total consumption by seed-eating animals. Therefore, partially consumed acorns as dispersal leftovers may play a potential role in natural regeneration of Quercus monglica, especially in mast years. However, this role and the underlying mechanisms of partial acorn consumption by rodents, birds, and herbivore insects need further investigation. buried deposition. Despite lower germination rates, lightly damaged acorns exhibited greater growth of roots and shoots, suggesting a compensatory response to partial acorn consumption. Partial consumption may spread prdation pressure on acorns and thus appears to be much better for the plant than total consumption by seed-eating animals. Therefore, partially consumed acorns as dispersal leftovers may play a potential role in natural regeneration of Quercus monglica, especially in mast years. However, this role and the underlying mechanisms of partial acorn consumption by rodents, birds, and herbivore insects need further investigation.
20146634|Pollination modes ecology of a total of 164 plant species was evaluated according to habitats and plant life forms in the Venezuelan Central Plain. Frequency distribution of nine pollination modes showed that, at the community level bee pollination (38.6%) was dominant. Butterly (13.9%), fly (12.7%), and wasp (10.8%) pollination were the second most frequent. Moth (6.2%) and wind (10.4%) pollination occurred with similar frequency, and the least common were bird (3.1%), beetle (2.3%) and bat (1.9%) pollination. There was a significant interaction effect indicating that pollination mode was affected by the type of habitat. Bee pollination was the most common pollination mode in all habitats with butterfly, fly and wasp pollination being secondary for forest and forest-savanna transition; and butterfly, wasp, wind and fly pollination being secondary for savanna. Wind, butterfly and fly pollination were found in disturbed areas as secondary pollination modes. Pollination modes were significantly associated and affected by life forms. Bee pollination was dominant in all life forms with wasp, butterfly and fly pollination being the secondary for trees, shrubs, and lianas; and butterfly and wind pollination being the secondary for herbaceous species. The number of pollination modes (richness) among life forms ranged between four and nine for epiphytes and perennial herbs respectively. The highest values of diversity indexes among life forms were found in trees and shrubs. The richness and diversity indices of pollination modes were statistically higher for more structured habitats, forest and forest-savanna transition, than herbaceous habitats, savanna and disturbed areas, which is associated with the highest values of diversity indexes in trees and shrubs. Equitability was higher for forest and disturbed areas than forest-savanna transition and savanna. The results of comparative richness, equitability, diversity indices, and the frequency distribution of pollination modes of 19 samples from tropical and temperate communities indicated that richness of pollination modes may be different between tropical and temperate communities. The proportion of each pollination mode suggests four grouping: (1) rain forests and their strata, (2) grassland savanna, and associated disturbed areas, (3) temperate communities, and (4) the most heterogeneous group, contained mostly neotropical communities, including the four habitats of the Venezuelan Central Plain. The frequency of pollination modes, richness, diversity and equitability of communities, habitats, successional stages, and vegetation strata varies with respect to geography, vegetation structure, and plant species richness.
40212945|We examined how water and nitrogen addition and water-nitrogen interactions affect root and shoot competition intensity and competition-productivity relationships in a native rough fescue grassland in central Alberta, Canada. Water and nitrogen were added in a factorial design to plots and root exclusion tubes and netting were used to isolate root and shoot competition on two focal species (Artemisia frigida and Chenopodium leptophyllum). Both water and nitrogen were limiting to plant growth, and focal plant survival rates increased with nitrogen but not water addition. Relative allocation to root biomass increased with water addition. Competition was almost entirely belowground, with focal plants larger when released from root but not shoot competition. There were no significant relationships between productivity and root, shoot, or total competition intensity, likely because in this system shoot biomass was too low to cause strong shoot competition and root biomass was above the levels at which root competition saturates. Water addition had few effects on the intensity of root competition suggesting that root competition intensity is invariant along soil moisture gradients. Contrary to general expectation, the strength of root competition increased with nitrogen addition demonstrating that the relationship between root competition intensity and nitrogen is more complex than a simple monotonic decline as nitrogen increases. Finally, there were few interactions between nitrogen and water affecting competition. Together these results indicate that the mechanisms of competition for water and nitrogen likely differ.
23500347|Valley oak, Quercus lobata Ne, has been a focus of conservation attention due to concerns about regeneration failure, habitat fragmentation and modification, and potential range contraction associated with climate change. A drawback of previous studies of valley oak stand structure and the regeneration problem has been their emphasis on one site or spatial and temporal scale. Generalization about valley oak dynamics from such studies is problematic because demographic parameters are not likely to be constant across sites, but heavily influenced by site-specific conditions. This study examines site-to-site variability across three locations in the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, California, USA. Variability in measures of stand structure and spatial pattern was examined across sites and within the landscape context. Estimates of expected landscape-scale evenness were derived by repeated random sampling of the data set and used as benchmarks for comparison with site-scale measures. Saplings were more abundant than expected at all three sites with sapling:adult ratios ranging from 0.5 to >1.0. Size-class structure suggested past recruitment problems at two sites, but recruitment at one site appears to have been steady for some time. Spatial distribution of adult stems at each site roughly corresponded to the estimated landscape pattern, but sapling establishment has shifted to north-to-east aspect hillsides and riparian-adjacent positions. In hilltop and swale habitats, adult valley oak are senescing without sapling recruitment. Shifting habitat-recruitment associations may lead to increasingly uneven distribution of stems across the landscape, altering landscape patterns and ecological processes.
20146827|In two consecutive years, we analysed the effect of litter quality, quantity and decomposability on soil N at three characteristic sites of the Patagonian Monte. We assessed (i) concentrations of N, C, lignin and total phenolics and the C/N ratio in senesced leaves as indicators of litter quality of three species of each dominant plant life form (evergreen shrubs and perennial grasses), and (ii) N, and organic-C concentrations, potential N-mineralisation and microbial-N flush in the soil beneath each species. Rate constants of potential decomposition of senesced leaves and N content in decaying leaves during the incubation period were assessed in composite samples of the three sites as indicators of litter decomposability. Further, we estimated for each species leaf-litter production, leaf-litter on soil, and the mass of standing senesced leaves during the senescence period. Senesced leaves of evergreen shrubs showed higher decomposability than those of perennial grasses. Leaf-litter production, leaf-litter on soil, and the mass of standing senesced leaves differed significantly among species. The largest variations in leaf-litter production and leaf-litter on soil were observed in evergreen shrubs. The mass of standing senesced leaves was larger in perennial grasses than in evergreen shrubs. Nitrogen, organic C and potential N-mineralisation in soil were higher underneath evergreen shrubs than beneath perennial grasses, while no significant differences were found in microbial-N flush among life forms. The initial concentrations of C, N and total phenolics of senesced leaves explained together 78% of the total variance observed in the dry mass loss of decaying leaves. Litter decomposition rates explained 98%, 98%, 73%, and 67% of the total variance of soil N, organic C, net-N mineralisation, and microbial-N flush, respectively. We concluded that leaf-litter decomposition rates along with leaf-litter production are meaningful indicators of plant local effects on soil N dynamics in shrublands of the Patagonian Monte, and probably in other similar ecosystem of the world dominated by slow growing species that accumulate a wide variety of secondary metabolites including phenolics. Indicators such as C/N or lignin concentration usually used to predict litter decomposability or local plant effects may not be adequate in the case of slow growing species that accumulate a wide range of secondary metabolites or have long leaf lifespan and low leaf-litter production.
20146996|We describe a range of methods for the description and analysis of spatial point patterns in plant ecology. The conceptual basis of the methods is presented, and specific tests are compared, with the goal of providing guidelines concerning their appropriate selection and use. Simulated and real data sets are used to explore the ability of these methods to identify different components of spatial pattern (e.g. departure from randomness, regularity vs. aggregation, scale and strength of pattern). First-order tests suffer from their inability to characterise pattern at distances beyond those at which local interactions (i.e. nearest neighbours) occur. Nevertheless, the tests explored (first-order nearest neighbour, Diggle's G and F) are useful first steps in analysing spatial point patterns, and all seem capable of accurately describing patterns at these (shorter) distances. Among second-order tests, a density-corrected form of the neighbourhood density function (NDF), a non-cumulative analogue of the commonly used Ripley's K-function, most informatively characterised spatial patterns at a range of distances for both univariate and bivariate analyses. Although Ripley's K is more commonly used, it can give very different results to the NDF because of its cumulative nature. A modified form of the K-function suitable for inhomogeneous point patterns is discussed. We also explore the use of local and spatially-explicit methods for point pattern analysis. Local methods are powerful in that they allow variations from global averages to be detected and potentially provide a link to recent spatial ecological theory by taking the 'plant's-eye view'. We conclude by discussing the problems of linking spatial pattern with ecological process using three case studies, and consider some ways that this issue might be addressed.
40802420|Prolonged dormancy (hereafter dormancy), a phenomenon in which a perennial herbaceous plant does not sprout for one or more years, is examined. The phenomenon may be more frequent than stated so far and discovery of its role in plant life history and performance is still underway. Data from published papers was reviewed and all known species exhibiting dormancy were analysed from the aspect of species ecological values. Adaptation to environmental factors (light, moisture, pH and nitrogen as estimated by Ellenberg indicator values) influences the maximum duration of dormancy. A higher proportion of plants are dormant in species that prefer to grow in good light conditions, dry sites and infertile soil. The duration of dormant period is longer in species that prefer to grow in dry sites and/or calcareous soils. A range of factors, we believe, control plant behaviour, however, it is suggested that environmental stress is the principal factor inducing dormancy.
20146336|The water relations of two tree species in the Euphorbiaceae were compared to test in part a hypothesis that the forest understorey plays an integral role in drought response. At Danum, Sabah, the relatively common species Dimorphocalyx muricatus is associated with ridges whilst another species. Mallotus wrayi, occurs widely both on ridges and lower slopes. Sets of subplots within two 4 -ha permanent plots in this lowland dipterocarp rain forest, were positioned on ridges and lower slopes. Soil water potentials were recorded in 1995-1997, and leaf water potentials were measured on six occasions. Soil water potentials on the ridges (-0.047 MPa) were significantly lower than on the lower slopes (-0.012 MPa), but during the driest period in May 1997 they fell to similarly low levels on both sites (-0.53 MPa). A weighted 40-day accumulated rainfall index was developed to model the soil water potentials. At dry times, D. muricatus (ridge) had significantly higher pre-dawn (-0.21 v. -0.57 MPa) and mid-day (-0.59 v. -1.77 MPa) leaf water potentials than M. wrayi (mean of ridge and lower slope). Leaf osmotic potentials of M. wrayi on the ridges were lower (-1.63 MPa) than on lower slopes (-1.09 MPa), with those for D. muricatus being intermediate (-1.29 MPa): both species adjusted osmotically between wet and dry times. D. muricatus trees were more deeply rooted than M. wrayi trees (97 v. 70 cm). M. wrayi trees had greater lateral root cross-sectional areas than D. muricatus trees although a greater proportion of this sectional area for D. muricatus was further down the soil profile. D. muricatus appeared to maintain relatively high water potentials during dry periods because of its access to deeper water supplies and thus it largely avoided drought effects, but M. wrayi seemed to be more affected yet tolerant of drought and was more plastic in its response. The interaction between water availability and topography determines these species' distributions and provides insights into how rain forests can withstand occasional strong droughts.
20146570|A hierarchical approach for plant functional classification was applied to describe long-term vegetation change in Pinus halepensis burned forests. Plant species were initially grouped according to their growth form and afterwards data on species modes of regeneration, persistence and dispersal, together with some other specific competitive advantages were explored, resulting in the identification of 29 different functional groups, 14 for woody and 15 for herbaceous species. Three types of Pinus halepensis forests were identified, according to the structure of the understorey. For each forest type, a post-fire chronosequence of communities was selected for sampling. Data sampling was performed for at least two consecutive years in each community, so as to reduce the shortcomings of the synchronic approach and to increase the age range of each chronosequence. Even though the vast majority of the functional groups proved to be persistent throughout the post-fire development of vegetation, their species richness and abundance did not remain stable. An increase of annual herb richness and abundance was recorded in the first years after the fire, with the leguminous species forming the dominant functional group. For perennial herbs, the most abundant group was of species with vivid lateral growth, while the group of species with subterranean resource organs included the highest number of species. Finally, as far as the woody species are concerned, the groups that played the most important role in defining vegetation structure were the mono-specific group of the pine, the group of resprouting sclerophyllous tall shrubs and the group of obligate seeder short shrubs (with Cistus spp., among others). A negative relationship between the abundance of woody obligate resprouters and the regeneration of woody obligate seeders was found. The advantage of the proposed functional group approach over classical floristic or structural approaches for the long-term study of communities is discussed, together with the applicability of this approach in studies of vegetation risk assessments due to fire regime alterations.
20050469|Leaf and soil nutrient levels interact with and may each influence the other. We hypothesize that to the extent soil fertility influences the nutritional state of trees, soil fertility should correlate with summer leaf nutrient levels, whereas to the extent that trees influence soil nutrient levels, the quality of leaf litterfall should correlate with soil fertility. We examined these correlations for five sympatric oak species (genus Quercus) in central coastal California. Soil fertility, including both nitrogen and especially phosphorus, correlated significantly with summer leaf nutrient levels. In contrast, phosphorus, but not nitrogen, in the leaf litterfall correlated positively with soil nutrients. These results suggest that soil nitrogen and phosphorus influence tree nutrient levels and that leaf phosphorus, but not leaf nitrogen, influence soil fertility under the trees. Feedback between the soil and the tree for phosphorus, but not nitrogen, is apparently significant and caused by species-specific differences in leaf quality and not by litterfall quality differences within a species. We also compared functional differences between the evergreen and deciduous oak species at our study site. There were no differences in soil nitrogen and only small differences for soil phosphorus between the phenological types. Differences in leaf nutrient concentration were much more pronounced, with the evergreen species having substantially lower levels of both nitrogen and phosphorus. Evergreen species conserved more phosphorus, but not more nitrogen, than the deciduous species, but there was no consistent relationship between retranslocation and either soil nitrogen or phosphorus. These results do not support the hypothesis that evergreenness is an adaptation to low soil fertility in this system.
40305589|Hokkaido Island is located in the cool temperate zone, and its climate conditions facilitated the formation of a variety of wetland types, the majority of them peat-forming mires. Most of these remained in a natural state until the early 20th century. However, drainage and subsequent conversion mostly to agricultural land have since destroyed more than 70% of the original wetland ecosystems. This paper (1) provides an overview of mire types, (2) reviews the development process of mires in Hokkaido during the Holocene, (3) analyzes the causes of losses of wetland areas, and (4) gives a summary of the current conservation and management status. Basic mire types that have been described in other parts of the northern hemisphere can also be recognized in Hokkaido, although there are floristic differences, and the frequency and intensity of volcanic impact and tsunamis is higher than in most other regions with abundant mire formation. Mire formation started at various points during the postglacial period; a few mountain mires in southwest Hokkaido date back to the Lateglacial, but most mountain mires formed during the mid to late Holocene. Most lowland mires developed at altitudes below 20 m and were influenced by the Jomon transgression that peaked ca. 6,000 years BP. The largest owland mires started forming after the sea retreated, and many are not older than ca. 3,000 years. In 1996, the total number of wetlands (including peat-forming mires, freshwater marshes, and saltmarshes) greater than 1 ha was 150, with a total area of 59,881 ha. In 1928, when many wetlands were yet undeveloped, their total area was 200,642 ha. Most losses occurred between the 1950s and 1970s, when post-war development economics promoted agriculture and large-scale reclamation projects. Currently, 90.7% of mountain wetlands are public land, while 81.3% of the lowland wetlands are private or in mixed ownership. The ownership condition affects the possibilities for the protection of complete mire complexes especially in the lowlands. For effective conservation of wetland ecosystems it is necessary to include the catchment area in the planning of protected areas.
40305476|Compensatory growth responses of Leymus chinensis, a dominant species in Inner Mongolia steppe, to clipping defoliation were evaluated in a pot-cultivated experiment under different nutrient (N and P) and water availability conditions. Leymus chinensis exhibited over-compensatory growth at the light and moderate clipping intensities (20% and 40% aerial mass removed) with a greater accumulated aboveground biomass, higher relative growth rate (RGR), more rhizomatic tillers and a stimulation of compensatory photosynthesis to the remnant leaves as compared with those of the undipped plants. Intense clipping (80% aerial mass removed), which removed most of the aboveground tissues, greatly reduced the growth of aboveground biomass in comparison with that of the undipped plants. Nitrogen addition only slightly improved the biomass production and RGR in light and moderately clipped plants, and it did not allow plants in the intense clipping condition to over-compensate. Phosphorus addition had no obvious influences on the growth and physiological responses to clipping defoliation. These results indicated that nutrient addition could not compensate for the negative effects of severe clipping on the defoliated grass. On the other hand, there were no distinct positive responses under water deficiency condition for L chinensis at all clipping intensities with a significant reduction of aboveground and belowground biomass, lower RGR, fewer rhizomatic tillers, and a lower net photosynthetic rate than other wet treatments. Additionally, the chlorophyll contents of remnant leaves gradually increased with the increase of clipping intensities in each treatment. In conclusion, although L. chinensis could compensate for tissues removal by some morphological and physiological responses, intense clipping and drought can result in a significant decrease of biomass and growth rate, even under enriched nutrition conditions.
40305764|Rainfall and soil moisture variability have a strong effect on plant survival and seed germination in arid environments, yet very little is known about the effects on roots and growth of woody seedlings. Here we focused on the effects of variability in both amount and frequency of water supply on juvenile root and leaf functional traits and growth of seven Mediterranean shrub species occurring in arid SE Spain, Anthyllis cytisoides, Atriplex halimus, Ephedra fragilis, Genista umbellata, Lycium intricatum, Retama sphaerocarpa, and Salsola oppositifolia. In a 14-month greenhouse experiment we manipulated water supply expecting that reduced water amount and pulses of watering of different magnitude affected functional traits and seedling growth, even if the amount of water provided was the same. Different watering patterns altered soil drying dynamics, with reduced supply of water amount and frequent watering becoming the driest treatment. We found that roots of all species responded to alterations in water supply by changing biomass allocation patterns (i.e., higher root-to-shoot mass [R: S] ratio in draughted plants), and by altering fine roots diameter, measured in terms of specific root length. Indeed, differences in growth rate among species were significantly linked to fine roots diameter and biomass allocation, which relates to uptake capacity of roots. However, relative growth rate and leaf traits such as specific leaf area were insensitive, likely because prolonged droughts over longer periods of time seem necessary to constraint growth in all these arid shrubs.
40212904|Since pollen usually travels limited distances in wind-pollinated plant species, plants growing at low density may become pollen limited. We examined how local pollen availability and population density affect reproductive success in two wind-pollinated, dioecious species, Thalictrum fendleri and Thalictrum dioicum. Distance to the nearest flowering male, the number of flowering males within 2 m, and flower number on those males served as measures of local pollen availability. Increased distance from pollen donors reduced seed set in the lowestdensity population of each species, but seed set in high-density populations was not correlated with local pollen availability. For plants in high- and low-density populations at similar distances from pollen donors, this distance only affected seed set in low-density populations. To ensure that differences in resource availability were not causing spurious correlations between seed set and plant density, we constructed low-density artificial arrays in populations of T. dioicum. In these, seed set decreased rapidly with increases in distance from pollen donors. Despite these effects, the density of males in a population was not correlated with average seed set in T. dioicum, and hand pollination in the T. dioicum populations also failed to increase seed set over natural levels. These results suggest that pollen receipt only limits seed set on isolated plants within lowdensity populations of T. dioicum and T. fendleri.
20146538|Numerous attempts have been made to infer the mode of competition from size or biomass distributions of plant cohorts. However, since the relationship between mode of competition and size distributions may be obscured by a variety of factors such as spatial configuration, density or resource level, empirical investigations often produce ambiguous results. Likewise, the findings of theoretical analyses of asymmetric competition are equivocal. In this paper, we analyse the mode of competition in an individual-based model which is based on the new field-of-neighbourhood approach. In this approach, plants have a zone of influence that determines the distance up to which neighbours are influenced. Additionally, a superimposed field within the zone of influence defines phenomenologically the strength of influence of an individual on neighbouring plants. We investigated competition at both individual and population level and characterised the influence of density and of the shape of the field-of-neighbourhood on occurrence and degree of competitive asymmetry. After finding asymmetric competition emerging in all scenarios, we argue that asymmetric competition is a natural consequence of local competition among neighbouring plants.
24552031|With a high percentage of endemics along the west coast of South Africa, especially in the family Aizoaceae, the region is considered one of the earth's biodiversity hot spots. It has been suggested that the diversity and radiation of the Aizoaceae are coincident with low but predictable rainfall and lack of competition between species. In this study we examine the relationship between water source and the efficiency of PSII photochemistry for representative Aizoaceae and non-Aizoaceae. We do this to determine the extent to which the different genera are adapted to the frequent, low volume, precipitation characteristic of the region and to ascertain the extent to which there is competition for water. Our water isotope results show that the Aizoaceae use shallow surface water while the non-Aizoaceae use a deeper water source. We are however not able to show the extent to which the Aizoaceae utilize fog or dew. Our chlorophyll fluorescence results show that there are no differences in efficiency of PSII photochemistry between the species in the wet season. The decline from wet to dry season for the Aizoaceae is, however, more dramatic than that of the non-Aizoaceae reflecting the differences in rooting depth between the different families. These results suggest that, during the dry season, there is no competition for resources between families but there is competition between species. We conclude that the adaptation to using shallow water, coupled with susceptibility to drought of adult short lived Aizoaceae may be a, mechanism for the diversification of this family.
20051059|Vertical profiles of air temperature, humidity, wind speed and photosynthetically active radiation were examined systematically within and above a primary Amazonian rain forest in Southern Venezuela. During daylight hours the observed gradients of temperature and humidity suggest that turbulent mixing between vegetation and the atmosphere is reasonably efficient in the top two-thirds of the forest, whereas the understorey remains partially isolated. At night, however, the canopy exhibits a significant decoupling from the overlying atmospheric layer due to substantial radiative cooling, causing a stable density stratification above. It is fairly clear that these variations in microclimate produce a spectrum of different living conditions for the flora and fauna. In addition, the collected data provide important information concerning the turbulent exchanges of heat and water vapour. Actual evapotranspiration loss from the forest was estimated using a single-layer version of the Penman-Monteith equation including a submodel of canopy conductance. The values computed for hourly and daily periods were found to agree well with the simultaneously recorded xylem sap flow of several tree species. Thus they prove that this application is suitable to describe the environmental impact of micrometeorological and physiological factors on the complex process of evapotranspiration.
40305457|The extent to which human activities expanded the range of central and north-eastern Asian steppes into the forest is controversial. Natural versus anthropogenic causes of the inhibition of tree growth were investigated in a case study in the western Khentey Mountains in montane meadow steppe on sun-exposed southern slopes, representing treeless outposts within the northern Mongolian mountain taiga. Sowing and planting experiments with Mongolia's most common tree species, Larix sibirica, did not result in the successful establishment of any tree during one growing season, despite the exclusion of grazing by large herbivores from the sample plots by fencing. Less than 1% of the seeds germinated 4 weeks after sowing in spring. All seedlings died within a further 3 weeks due to drought and heat. Two-year-old seedlings suffered from drought as well as from feeding by of gypsy moth larvae (Lymantria dispar), grasshoppers and rodents. While the gypsy moth was effective at damaging L sibirica only during few weeks at the beginning of the growing season, feeding by grasshoppers and rodents persisted through the entire growing season. At the end of the growing season two thirds of the seedlings died due to insect and small mammal herbivory and one third due to drought-related damage. Herbivores attacked larch seedlings more rapidly on the open meadow steppe than at the forest edge. Drought and high temperature at the soil-air interface are crucial for inhibiting tree encroachment on the studied steppe slopes. Competition by non-arboreal plants is of subordinate significance for the establishment of L sibirica. Trees can only establish at especially favorable microsites under humid weather conditions. Such trees, however, are exposed to a high risk of mortality from insect or small mammal herbivory.
20050843|The post-fire regenerative ability of Pinus halepensis, Pinus nigra and Pinus sylvestris, three of the most important pine species present in the West Mediterranean basin, has been analyzed in the light of seed tolerance to different temperatures and times of exposure, and of seed position during the fire event (seeds inside cones versus free seeds). The combination of different fire intensities and degrees of seed protection allows us to draw different scenarios during the fire event: canopy scenarios (seeds inside cones), surface scenarios (seeds on the ground surface), and soil scenarios (seeds in the top soil layers). There were interspecific differences in the pattern of cone opening under the different heat treatments: cones of P. nigra and P. sylvestris showed similar percentages of opening, but considerably higher than those of P. halepensis. In the three species, seeds inside cones showed higher percentages of germination than those that were free, emphasizing the important role of cones in the protection of pine seeds from high temperatures. The percentage of germination decreased when both the temperature and the time of exposure increased, and there was also a significant species effect: P. halepensis showed higher germination rates than P. nigra, and both were higher than P. sylvestris. The overall scores of seed germination of these three pine species under the conditions tested suggests that their regeneration after fire should come either from the soil bank, or from the canopy bank, but rarely from the ground surface. As the existence of a permanent seed bank in Mediterranean pines is probably limited or nil, pine recruitment after fire appears to be mainly controlled by the existence of a canopy seed bank. The contribution of this canopy bank to the differences in postfire regeneration success of the three pine species is discussed in the light of their seeding phenology and the effects of fire severity on cone opening. The results obtained in this study contribute to explain the successful regeneration of P. halepensis, and the failure of P. nigra and P. sylvestris after fire.
20050644|The response of Erica australis to experimental burning, cutting and ploughing treatments was studied in two heathland communities where it was dominant. The treatments represent those most frequently originated by humans on these heathland communities throughout history. The response of this species in a community where it is dominant and there is no strong interspecific competition was also compared to that produced by it in a community where there is competition. It can be observed that the response to burning and cutting treatments is very similar with very fast spatial occupation in the first few years. From the point of view of time cover values increased in a pronounced manner during the first few years and this increase was stabilized from the fourth year. However, from this moment on a greater increase in this species' maximum height is evident. The response to ploughing is slower according to recovery mechanism (seedlings). Recovery is comparatively less in the area where there is no strong competition than in that where it exists between species. /// Dans deux communauts de bruyre domines par Erica australis on a tudi la rponse de cette espce aux traitements exprimentaux de brlage, coupe et labour. Ces traitements reprsentent les actions les plus frquentes que l'homme a exerc sur ces communauts de bruyre tout au long de l'histoire. De la mme faon, on a fait la comparaison de la rponse de cette espce quand elle se trouve dans une communaut domine principalement par elle, o elle n'y a pas une forte comptition entre les espces, avec la rponse quand elle se situe dans une communaut o plusieurs espces coexistent. On observe que la rponse aux traitements de brlage et coupe est trs semblable, en prsentant une occupation spatiale trs rapide pendant les premires annes. Du point de vue temporel, leurs valeurs de couverture augmentent de faon plus prononce pendant les premires annes, et c'est  partir de la quatrime anne que ce dveloppement se stabilise. Cependant, c'est  partir de ce moment l qu'on remarque une augmentation plus grande en ce qui concerne la hauteur maximale de cette espce. La rponse au traitement de labour est plus lente en relation avec la rgnration par semences. L'effet de la comptition se traduit par une rcupration qui suit un mode d'augmentation oppos  la situation originaire. Dans la surface o il n'existe pas une forte comptition, la rcupration est comparativement plus faible que dans la station o il y existait une comptition entre les espces.
20146451|Inselbergs are monolithic, old and stable landscape elements with a worldwide distribution. On inselbergs, relatively old (i.e. hundreds of years old) rock pools form a unique habitat that offers locally wet conditions in an otherwise edaphically and microclimatically dry environment. They occur as seasonally water-filled depressions with a thin layer of soil, and are mainly inhabited by ephemerals and cryptogams. Even during the rainy season, they often become dry if precipitation is lacking for a few days. Between 1990 and 1999, about 200 rock pools in the Ivorian savanna zone were examined on a regular basis. Absolute and relative turnover rates were calculated: values ranged from 0.00 to 3.00 and 0 to 78%, respectively. Mean turnover was 0.19 (17%). The turnover in the SRPs increased significantly with soil depth and area. No correlation was found between turnover and species number of the pools, which increased significantly with area. The highest turnover was shown by the annual Cyanotis lanata. The turnover of therophytes was higher than those of other life-forms. Turnover and frequency of the species were only weakly correlated. In an environment of frequent stochasticity, climatic disturbances are the major driving force determining community dynamics (e.g. local extinctions and immigrations) of these habitat islands.
20051012|This study tests whether variability in a life history trait such as emergence time has ecological and evolutionary significance in seasonal environments due to their relationship with fitness components. The population dynamics of nine different cohorts of seedlings emergence were analyzed in a natural population of the annual herb Tagetes micrantha Cav. (Asteraceae). Temporal variation in seedling emergence was related to the pattern of precipitation, while spatial variation could be related to topographical heterogeneity. Plants that emerged at the beginning of the season (early germination) had lower probabilities of survivorship than those that emerged at the end of the season (late germination). In contrast, plants that emerged early had, on average, higher fecundity than those that emerged late. The net result of these contrasting patterns of survival and fecundity constitute a life history trade-off in T. micrantha.
41508836|The activation of dormant meristems following apical damage is an important mechanism for tolerance of herbivore damage, but its impact could vary with resource availability. Here, we examined central predictions of the limiting resource model (LRM), according to which high resource availability can support damage tolerance in plants with deterministic apical dominance, but will have limited or no effect in plants that are induced to increase branching by increased resource availability regardless of damage. We examined these predictions by studying the branching patterns of Medicago truncatula plants in response to both light and water availabilities and their effects on tolerance of apical damage. We used plants from environments that were predicted to select for different levels of apical dominance. Intact plants from the more productive and competitive population exhibited strong apical dominance and refrained from branching even under full light, whereas plants from the less productive and sparser population exhibited greater plasticity in apical dominance and readily branched under high water and light. In accordance with the LRM, these differences translated into differential responsiveness to apical damage: given abundant water, apical damage induced the activation of lateral meristems and increased pod and seed production in plants from the more productive environment, but not in plants from the less productive environment. These results suggest an adaptive association between deterministic inhibition of lateral meristems and compensatory ability, which supports the hypothesis that greater compensatory responsiveness to apical damage could be a derivative of adaptation to other environmental stresses, such as light competition.
40305439|This study describes the long-term changes of spatial patterns of cut-sedge (Cladium mariscus) and common reed (Phragmites australis) in the Spanish floodplain wetland Las Tablas de Daimiel. Using seven sets of aerial photographs, we determined changes in their spatial patterns (size of patches) between 1945 and 2001 that resulted from combinations of natural change and anthropogenic stress (irrigated agriculture, waste water discharge, fire, ploughing). Our approach consisted in using 1 ha cells as units of spatial resolution in principal coordinates of neighbour matrices and spatial correlograms to assess the spatial scale of interest and spatial patterns at (1) the whole wetland and (2) two areas of the wetland with locally contrasting biophysical settings and anthropogenic stress history. Results showed that vegetation spatial patterns were influenced by natural variability until the 1970s. Thereafter, anthropogenic perturbation became the main driver of vegetation change, especially in the lower part of the wetland where local impacts were stronger. Natural variability did not fragment cut-sedge patches, and the effects of biological traits were less important for its spatial pattern. By contrast, man-made change resulted in a marked cut-sedge cover decrease and patch fragmentation, and the importance of its biological traits on spatial patterns increased. The trends of reed spatial patterns were generally opposite to, but not as clear as those for, cut-sedge. The trends of spatial patterns were especially evident at very broad (3,500-10,000 m) and broad (1,000-3,400 m) spatial scales. Competition for space and abiotic factors (water quality and water depth) were not strong predictors of cover variability at the 1-ha scale, particularly in the lower area of the wetland. This suggests that other environmental variables need to be considered in spatially explicit modelling of vegetation spatial patterns in wetlands. Consideration of spatial hierarchies and species-specific ecological traits is paramount to the conservation of degraded wetlands.
20146662|We studied plant distribution at the margins (0-10 m) of three formerly cultivated plots adjacent to a remnant patch of the only Mediterranean steppe of France: La Crau. We sampled above-ground vegetation, seed bank, seed rain and seed dispersal by ants in order to assess the colonisation of steppe species at margins. Our results showed that (1) present day above-ground vegetation of formerly cultivated plots is influenced more by former agricultural practices (duration of melon cultivation, fertilisation) and time since abandonment than their position in relation to the steppe. (2) An edge effect was identified as the vegetation of the steppe (e.g. Thymus vulgaris, Salvia verbenaca, Linaria arvensis) colonises the formerly cultivated plots (coefficients of similarity between vegetation on margins and steppe vegetation decreased with distance from boundaries (r = -0.65, p &lt 0.001)). (3) Permanent deep seed bank (10-20 cm) did not contribute to either site or edge effects and was characterised by weed species from previous melon cultivation (e.g. Chenopodium album, Kicksia elatine, Portulaca oleracea, Solanum nigrum). (4) Seed rain density decreased with distance from edges (r = -0.39, p &lt 0.001) and seemed positively correlated to T. vulgaris cover. (5) The number of seeds in ant-traps seemed correlated to T. vulgaris cover. We concluded that after 19 years of abandonment, only about half of the steppe species have colonised just the few meters of the margins of the formerly cultivated plots and that restoration from seed bank, seed rain or seed dispersal by ants is unlikely. Our results are thus discussed within the context of restoring the steppe plant community on formerly cultivated plots.
40305432|An inventory of isolated tree stands surrounded by desert pastures in Southern Tibet (A. R. Xizang, China) revealed more than 50 sites with vigorous trees of Juniperus convallium Rehder & E.H. Wilson and Juniperus tibetica Kom and additional more than 10 records where juniper trees had been destroyed between 19591976. The tree stands are not restricted to any specific habitat, and occur within an area stretching 650 km westwards from the current forest border of Southern Tibet. The trees are religious landmarks of the Tibetan Buddhists. The highest trees were found at an elevation of 4,860 m. Vegetation records, rainfall correlations and temperature data collected by local climate stations and successful reforestation trials since 1999 indicate that forest relicts fragmented through human interference could regenerate if current cattle grazing and deforestation practices are halted. The drought line of Juniperus forests in Southern Tibet is approximately 200250 mm/a. A first pollen diagram from Lhasa shows forest decline associated with the presence of humans since at least 4,600 yr BP. The currently degraded commons developed in the last 600 yr. To date, no findings of remains of ancient forests in the Central Tibetan Highlands of the Changtang have been reported.
41508748|Community-structuring processes continue to be of great interest to plant ecologists, and plant spatial patterns have been linked to processes including disturbance, dispersal, environmental heterogeneity, and plant interactions. Under the assumption that the analysis of the spatial structure of plant communities can help to elucidate the type and importance of the predominant community-structuring processes, many studies have analyzed point pattern data on various plant species. A variety of methods have been devised to acquire point pattern data for individual plants, however, the classic tradeoff between the speed of acquisition and the precision of spatial data has meant that large and precise datasets on plant locations are difficult to obtain. The primary goal of this study was to develop a GPS-based methodology for the rapid collection of precise spatial data on plant locations in a semi-arid shrubland in the Great Basin, USA. The secondary goal was to demonstrate a potential application of this approach by using recently developed univariate and bivariate spatial statistics to test for aggregation within the shrub community, as observed in other semi-arid shrublands. We efficiently mapped 2,358 individuals of five shrub species with a spatial error of < 0.02 m, and found strong statistical evidence of fine-scale aggregation (1) independent of species, (2) within species, and (3) between two species pairs. Our approach is useful for rapidly collecting precise point pattern data in plant communities, and has other applications related to population modeling, GIS analysis, and conservation.
40305441|Non-random seed shadows are commonly seen in plant species whose seeds are dispersed by animals, in particular by birds. The behaviour of birds can influence the spatial pattern of seed dispersal and, consequently, the entire regeneration process of fleshy-fruited trees. This study examined regeneration patterns in a fleshy-fruited tree species, rowan (Sorbus aucuparia L.), growing in West Carpathian subalpine spruce forests, focussing on two problems: the temporal relationship between rowan regeneration and gap formation, and the spatial relationship between rowan regeneration and stand structure. It was found that rowan seedlings and saplings were recruited in advance of gap formation. Establishment of new rowan individuals in gaps was infrequent, but gaps enhanced their regeneration nearby under spruce canopy, where they occurred densely in a narrow belt about 15 m wide. Inside spruce stands, the highest density of young rowans was directly under crowns, especially near trunk bases. Few rowan saplings were found growing under mature rowan trees. The presence of a rowan seedling and sapling bank determines whether rowans fill spruce stand gaps. Dense rowan groves can develop mainly in extensive but slowly expanding gaps.
20146780|Research was conducted to investigate responses of Acacia karroo to severe defoliation, with or without debarking, in a semi-arid, subtropical savanna. A herd of 250 goats reduced available foliage by 87% in a 10.5-ha area of Acacia woodland over 3 weeks during the early dormant season (May). The goats debarked 37% of the trees. On average, bark was stripped less than halfway round a stem and 11% of the bark area was affected. Trees 1.6-2.5 m tall and 11-30 cm in basal circumference were most susceptible to debarking. A year later, there were no detectable effects of defoliation on the number of browseable shoots, internode length, shoot length, spine length, number of seed pods, neutral detergent fibre (NDF) or nitrogen (N). Defoliation tended to increase condensed tannin concentration (CT), but the effect was not significant (p &gt 0.05). The absence of goats during the growth season following defoliation allowed the trees to recover. Debarking had greater impacts on the trees than defoliation had. Debarking reduced the number of browseable shoots, while ringing at the base reduced CT and increased N. Debarking tended to reduce shoot and spine length, and halve the number of pods, but the effects were not significant (p &gt 0.05). Responses of basally ringed trees indicated rapid vertical growth when the trees were highly vulnerable to browsers and fires, suggesting strong selection for herbivore/fire tolerance. Among all treatments, excluding basal ringing, there were significant variations in NDF and CT between years. There was a positive relationship between N and NDF, and a negative relationship between N and CT, in 1 year, but not in the other. Among basally ringed trees, CT was negatively related to N, but NDF was not. The strong trade-off between N and CT in basally ringed trees probably indicates that large changes in root:shoot ratio are required to effect definite changes in defence.
41508714|To assess the impact of Quercus acuta, a dominant species in the evergreen broad-leaved forests of Japan, and its habitat shifts as a result of climate change, we predicted the potential habitats under the current climate and two climate change scenarios using a random forest (RF). The presence/absence records of Q. acuta were extracted from the Phytosociological Relev Data Base as response variables, and four climatic variables (warmth index, WI; minimum temperature of the coldest month, TMC; summer precipitation, PRS; and winter precipitation, PRW) were used as predictor variables. The mean decrease in the Gini criterion revealed that WI was the most influential factor followed by TMC. The RF revealed a considerable increase in potential habitats (PHs) under the climate change scenarios for 2081-2100 (RCM20, 180,141 km; MIROC, 175,635 km) relative to the current climate (150,542 km). The land use variables were used for masking PH. The PH masked by land use (PHLU) was approximately half of the PH under the current conditions (74,567 km). Under the climate change scenarios and 1 km migration options, the PHLU were not increased relative to its value under the current conditions. The distribution of Q. acuta was restricted by the northward shift in northern Honshu, but expanded as a result of the upward shift into the mountain areas of Western Japan. Habitat fragmentation reduced the ability of migration to respond to climate change in the lowland areas of Japan.
41508820|Few studies link seed dispersal with its demographic consequences, or provide reliable estimates of seed dispersal effectiveness. One reason is the complexity of measuring the suitability for plant recruitment of seed arrival sites. In this study, I compare three methods that differ in the effort required to measure site suitability for seedling recruitment. All are based on the proportion of seeds that become seedlings (seedling-to-seed ratios). Method I is the most detailed and labour intensive. The fate of seeds was followed throughout the different steps of the recruitment process, from fruit removal until seedling emergence, including both seeds dispersed by different animals and undispersed seeds. Method II is based on seed addition experiments. Seeds were sowed in plots, and seedlings emerging were counted in the following two seasons. In Method III, average seed input during dispersal was measured with soil seed bank samples taken in pre-and post-dispersal periods, and seedling emergence estimated with samples of three seasons. Method II provided results similar to those of Method I, which, conversely, provides more insight in the actual processes driving recruitment. Method III, however, systematically underestimated site suitability (seedling-to-seed ratios) by about 50% as compared to the other methods in all microhabitats studied. Relative instead of absolute indices of site suitability were, however, reliable with this method. Method II and III are significantly less costly and could be good alternatives to Method I for some purposes, simplifying future studies on the demographic consequences of seed dispersal and the effectiveness of dispersers.
20050694|A probability-based sampling scheme was used to survey plant species composition in forests of 16 states in seven geopolitical regions of the United States (California, Colorado, Minnesota, and parts of the Pacific Northwest, Southeast, Mid-Atlantic, and Northeast) in 1994. The proportion of alien species relative to the total species number and to canopy cover in the ground stratum (0-0.6 m height) was evaluated in 279 plots. Visually evident anthropogenic disturbances (e.g., artificial regeneration, logging, prescribed burning, and grazing by livestock), if any, were recorded on each plot. In each of the seven regions we quantified (1) the percentage of the number of species and total cover comprised of alien species, (2) the difference in these percentages for disturbed and undisturbed plots, and (3) the origin or native range for the alien species. The percentage of alien species ranged from approximately 4.5% (Colorado) to approximately 13.2% (California). The percentage of alien species cover ranged from approximately 1.5% in Colorado to 25% in California. In five regions, species introduced from temperate Eurasia comprised the largest proportion of alien species and cover. In the Southeast, species introduced from far eastern and subtropical Asia dominated the alien flora. In the Mid-Atlantic, the majority of alien species was Eurasian and the majority of alien species cover consisted of far eastern and subtropical Asian species. The proportion of plots in which at least one alien species was recorded was significantly higher in disturbed than undisturbed plots in the Southeast and marginally significantly higher (p = 0.053) in the Northeast. These results are consistent with other published studies that indicate that anthropogenic disturbance affects the structure and composition of both the ground stratum and upper canopy of forest habitats. In other regions, however, no significant differences were found.
20146867|Corema album is a dioecious shrub endemic of the Iberian Peninsula, growing in sandy coastal areas from the North of Galicia to Gibraltar in the South. Hermaphrodite individuals have been found in the southern populations of El Asperillo (Spain) and Vila Real de Santo Antonio (Portugal). In this paper, the role of hermaphroditic individuals in the driest populations of its biogeographical area is discussed and the trade-off between reproduction and vegetative growth in the three sexual forms is presented. Asperillo site where hermaphrodite individuals were more abundant was selected for this current study. The proportion of hermaphrodite individuals was 1-4%, and male/female sex ratio ranged from 0.9 to 1.1. Hermaphrodite plants had a low number of hermaphrodite inflorescences, in relation to the number of staminate inflorescences. Their ripe fruits were smaller than those of female plants. The reproductive effort was three times higher in female than in male or hermaphrodite plants. The observed interannual oscillation in vegetative elongation was not related to annual rainfall. However, differences existed in growth timing among the three sexual forms, related to the timing of peak investment in reproduction. These results suggest the existence of trade-offs between investment in reproduction and vegetative growth. There were significant differences in leaf water potential among the three sexual forms early in summer, with males showing the less negative and hermaphrodite the most negative potential values. The demand of water for fruit production may explain these differences.
20051221|We compared the effects of two mechanisms of fruit processing (defecation versus regurgitation) on seed germination and establishment in a mistletoe-bird system (Tristerix aphyllus -- Mimus thenca). Despite regurgitation being more frequently observed than defecation, radicle of defecated seeds grew longer than that of regurgitated ones. In this fruit-seed disperser interaction, we demonstrate the importance of different mechanisms of fruit processing for cactus infection efficiency by the mistletoe.
20146980|Soil seed bank composition and vegetative spatial patterns were studied in four mountain meadow communities in the Broto Valley (N. Spain), in order to analyse the differences that might exists between the two life forms. Soil and vegetation samples were taken at 1 m intervals from 10 m  10 m quadrats in each meadow in one-year study. The spatial distribution of species was analysed along with the calculation of an autocorrelation coefficient which takes account of the relative position of samples: (Moran's I). The results indicate that the abundance of the majority of the species in the seed bank and in the vegetation are randomly distributed, the percentage of species with a clumped distribution only exceeds 35% in the vegetation of one meadow and none of the taxa identified showed a uniform spatial organisation. The species that were distributed in the seed bank in a clumped pattern in more than one meadow were those of the pioneer species (Anagallis arvensis, Centaurium erythraea, Lamium purpureum and Stellaria media). All of these formed long-term persistent seed banks but were absent in the established vegetation in these meadows. According to the results, there exist not only differences between the spatial distribution of the species present in the same community, but also, that some species change their pattern of distribution according to the life form and to the grassland type in which they are found.
40305778|Survival of broad-leaved dock (Rumex obtusifolius) plants exposed to grass (mainly Festuca rubra and Elymus repens) competition in unmanaged grassland in Central Europe was investigated. Individual plants (n = 244) were marked in a 35 x 28 m experimental plot divided into 20 quadrats. The mortality of the dock plants was recorded twice a year, and plant size (number of flowering stems) recorded for 8 years (2000-2007). Half of the plants died within 4 years and 4% survived to the end of the experiment. On average, winter mortality (October-April, 60%) was greater than summer mortality (May-September, 40%) but both varied between years. The plants decreased in size as they approached death. The survival of dock plants in particular quadrats was negatively correlated with the biomass of grass roots and rhizomes. Intensity of below-ground competition and possibly water deficiency contributed most to dock mortality.
20051312|Riparian meadows in the western US are highly productive areas within the riparian corridor that have been extensively utilized for livestock grazing and that are often degraded. This study aimed to increase our understanding of both the functional responses and restoration potential of mesic meadow systems in central Nevada, USA. Nitrogen addition and clipping treatments were used to examine grazing effects, while aeration and revegetation were included to evaluate potential restoration treatments. Belowground response was determined by examining gravimetric soil water content and rooting depth and activity. Aboveground response was determined for two key mesic meadow species, Carex nebrascensis and Poa pratensis, by quantifying gas exchange and water relations. Large yearly and seasonal differences among water tables largely determined the rooting activity and depth in these mesic meadows and influenced treatment responses. Little rooting activity occurred within or at the surface of the water table and rooting depth increased as water table level lowered during the growing season. In general, nitrogen addition decreased rooting activity and depth relative to controls. It resulted in less negative water potentials and photosynthetic rates that were higher early in the growing season, but lower later in the growing season. The effects of nitrogen addition could be attributed to accelerated phenology and earlier senescence. Clipping resulted in less negative plant water potentials in Carex and Poa, and Poa had higher photosynthetic rates immediately after clipping but only for certain dates and comparisons. Aeration increased rooting activity and depth where there was no confounding effect of water table. Also, predawn and midday water potentials were generally less negative for Carex and Poa in aerated plots. Establishment on the revegetation plots was dominated by annual and early seral species and, consequently, these plots exhibited reduced rooting depth and activity early in the growing season and high root turnover. Results indicate that water table depth and its effects on soil water are dominant factors in determining the functional processes and recovery potentials of these riparian meadows. Clipping had minimal effects on above- and belowground responses, perhaps because clipping was performed late in the growing season after plants had begun to senescence. Nitrogen addition decreased rooting activity and altered phenology, indicating deleterious effects. Aeration was effective at overcoming some of the negative affects of overgrazing and may be an effective restoration treatment. However, revegetation may have limited potential due to establishment constraints of the dominant species.
40926895|This study examined variation in leaf traits and water relations in 12 evergreen and semideciduous woody species that occur in both seasonal wet and dry forests in Costa Rica and compared intra-specific leaf-trait correlations to those found in inter-specific global studies. The following traits were measured in both forests across seasons for 2 years: leaf nitrogen (N), leaf carbon (C), specific leaf area (SLA), toughness, cuticle thickness, leaf thickness, and leaf lifespan (LLS).Leaf water potential (LWP) and water content (LWC) were measured as indices of plant available water.Canopy openness, soil moisture, and herbivory were also measured to compare environmental variation across sites. Although species contributed the greatest amount to variation in traits, season, forest, and their interaction had a large influence on patterns of intraspecific leaf-trait variation. Leaf traits that contributed most to variation across sites were C, LWP, leaf thickness, and SLA. Traits that contributed most to variation across seasons were leaf toughness, LWP, and LWC. Furthermore, leaf traits were more correlated (i.e., number and strength of correlations) in the dry than in the wet forest. In contrast to results from global literature syntheses, there was no correlation between LLS and N, or LLS and SLA. Both light and water availability vary seasonally and may be causing variation in a number of leaf traits, specifically those that relate to water relations and leaf economics.Strong seasonality may cause leaf-trait relationships at the local scale to differ from those documented in continental and global-scale studies.
40666620|Knowledge of the response of litter mass loss to climate warming and litter quality in alpine ecosystems is still sparse. Here, we conducted a 507-day litter decomposition experiment along an elevation gradient from 3200 to 3800 m using different litter types to determine the influences of litter quality and climate change on the elemental mass losses and on the temperature sensitivity of litter mass losses (annual percentage decomposition (%) per 1C temperature difference). Mass losses of C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K), sodium (Na), calcium (Ca), and Magnesium (Mg) decreased with an increase in elevation. In general, N and Na concentrations in litter and ratios of C:N and lignin:N were the best predictors of C mass losses. A higher N concentration and C:N ratio in litter caused greater C mass losses, but higher lignimN ratio in litter resulted in lower C mass losses. Litter decomposition occurred in a two-stage process. Carbon mass loss in litter was mainly limited by soil temperature in the first growing season of the decomposition period, whereas  concentration and ratios of C:P and N:P limited carbon mass loss in the remaining litter during the second growing season of the decomposition period. Soil moisture appeared not to affect litter mass loss and the temperature sensitivity of litter mass loss of grass litter was greater than that of shrub litter in the alpine region.
40606951|Historically, fires occurred throughout the year in the Fescue Prairie of Canada, but little is known about plant community responses to burning at different times of the year. Composition of plant communities was determined annually for 6 years after burning one or three times in a remnant Fescue Prairie in central Saskatchewan. A multiple-response permutation procedure indicated that plant community composition was different in the two burning histories (P < 0.001) and among times of burning (P < 0.001). Variables related to plant community composition after burning were evaluated using Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling. Three gradients explained 86% of the variation in composition of plant communities. Environmental conditions leading up to burning and at the time of burning correlated poorly with species composition. Differences in composition of plant communities were attributed primarily to burning history, cumulative precipitation in the 12 months before sampling, cumulative coldstress days in the 12 months before sampling, coldstress days in March and April, and months since burning. Plant communities burned once responded negatively to increasing cold-stress days while those burned three times responded positively to cold-stress days. Cover of Festuca hallii and Symphoricarpos occidentalis was 88 and 350% greater after one burn as compared to three burns, whereas cover of Carex obtusata, Carex pensylvanica, and Elymus lanceolatus was 126, 53, and 220% greater after three burns than after one burn. Festuca hallii, Galium boreale, Pulsatilla patens ssp. multifida, Symphoricarpos occidentalism and Symphyotrchum ericoides had the highest indicator value of a single burn; Carex obtusata, Elymus lanceolatus, and Koeleria macrantha had the greatest indicator values for sites burned three times. Longer-term effects of burning history exert a strong influence on plant community composition while short-term conditions after burning, namely, precipitation and cold-stress days, appear important in controlling species responses and composition of plant communities in Fescue Prairie.
20051053|In the framework of our research, aimed at understanding the processes structuring tropical arthropod communities, we investigated the changes occurring in tree crown communities of forests of different disturbance levels. These were a mixed dipterocarp primary lowland rain forest in Kinabalu National Park (in Sabah, Malaysia) and, some kilometres away, three forests of regeneration periods 5, 15, and 40 years following a clear-cut. These disturbed forest sites were adjacent to one another and merged into mature forest. From each forest at least ten individuals of one tree species were sampled using the fogging method. In the primary forest relative proportions of some arthropod taxa differed on the ordinal and familial level significantly within trees. The dominance of Formicidae was characteristic as was the almost complete lack of less mobile arthropods such as Lepidoptera larvae. In the five-year-old forest, differences in relative proportions among most taxa had almost disappeared. Formicidae abundances had declined drastically which coincided with an increase of Lepidoptera larvae. With progressing forest succession, arthropod communities increasingly converged on the pattern of primary forest, and total ant abundance as well as diversity increased significantly. Ant communities in the most disturbed forest were of low structural complexity, and to a large degree predictable in species arrangement, but became more and more unpredictable as the complexity of the forest increased. Several species of Coleoptera and non-formicine Hymenoptera occurred in high numbers in the youngest forest, contrasting with the mature forest where all species were typically rare. These changes may indicate a change in the structuring mechanisms from predominantly deterministic processes in disturbed forests to stochastic processes in mature forest.
41686757|Due to their diversity and dominance in environmentally harsh sites, Mediterranean dwarf shrubs are a valuable tool to understand the consequences of climatic variability on radial growth in woody plants. We evaluate the dendrochronological potential of three Mediterranean dwarf shrubs versus three coexisting tree species inhabiting cold- (Hormathophylla spinosa vs. Pinus sylvestris), mesic- (Ononis fruticosa vs. Abies alba), and xeric sites (Linum suffruticosum vs. Pinus halepensis). Cross-sectional wood sections of the three shrub species and cores in the case of trees were visually cross-dated and ring-widths were measured and converted into residual growth indices. We used linear mixed-effects models to assess how growth indices respond to local factors and climatic variables. The radial growth of the three dwarf shrub species was more asynchronous, i.e., ring-width series differed among conspecific individuals, than that of coexisting tree species. Growth asynchrony was higher for H. spinosa than for O. fruticosa and L. suffruticosum. Similarly, the ring-width series of O. fruticosa and L. suffruticosum was strongly correlated with that of coexisting tree species, while growth series of H. spinosa and P. sylvestris was not related at all. The growth of the three dwarf shrub species was influenced by the regional climatic conditions, but to a lesser degree than coexisting tree species. The highest responsiveness of growth to climate was observed in Mediterranean dwarf shrubs from xeric sites. However, local conditions are also major drivers of growth in Mediterranean dwarf shrubs as indicated by the stronger asynchrony in ring formation of these species as compared with coexisting trees, particularly in cold sites.
20051200|Using a wide range of conditions and plant community types, species diversity was investigated in relation to edaphic and non-edaphic site conditions, management, and biomass characteristics. Both standing biomass and aboveground production were investigated, and their effects compared. Three taxonomic assemblages were studied: (1) vascular plants only, (2) bryophytes also included, (3) terrestrial lichens included as well. Using a multivariate approach, both species richness and evenness could best be explained when only vascular plants were considered, emphasizing the role of taxonomic restrictions. The models best explaining species richness merely required abiotic conditions. This supports recent theories emphasizing the importance of an environmental regulation of the pool of (adapted) species from which the actual species are recruited. Explanatory soil properties were moisture and pH (both unimodal), and the soil available N:P ratio. Plots with large perimeter:area ratios had significantly more species than those with low ratios, indicating the importance of consistency in quadrat shape. Hump-shaped species richness relationships could be identified for both standing biomass and productivity, but they explained only a small part of the variation and were apparent only if soil and management effects were not accounted for. Unimodality (and notably the decreasing phase) was most pronounced when using maximum standing biomass, suggesting that the key factor is competition for light. At intermediate levels of standing biomass, the positive effects of habitat productivity and the negative effects of standing biomass itself are in balance, and high species numbers may be expected. When soil or management variables were allowed in the models, hump-shaped biomass relationships were no longer confirmed, suggesting that such relationships may arise from the covariation of biomass with other factors. Management explained a much larger part of the variation than the hump-shaped biomass relationship, suggesting that mowing and hay removal (both showing independent positive effects) regulate species richness in ways other than solely through the control of maximum standing biomass. Significantly higher evennes values were obtained at sites with low maximum biomass values, but only for the vascular plants. In addition, species evenness was positively related to the frequency of mowing. The numbers of both rare and endangered species were strongly curtailed by high standing biomass values, suggesting that these species are more susceptible to competitive exclusion than others. Through direct as well as indirect effects, management is confirmed to be beneficial not only for general species richness, but also for the occurrence of rare and endangered species.
20050856|Leaf size zonation along an altitudinal gradient from 2000-2700 m a.s.l. on Mt. Pulog, Cordillera mountain range, Luzon Is., Philippines was examined using the Raunkiaer-Webb classification system. The entire altitudinal range studied was dominated by the small leaf size classes which possess thick, lustrous, pubescent leaves adapted to high evapotranspiration, cold temperature and other stressful conditions. Altitudinal leaf size zonation was identified as follows: (1) pure needle leaved zone from 2000-2300 m a.s.l., (2) mixed needle leaved/microphyllous zone from 2300-2400 m a.s.l., (3) microphyllous zone from 2400-2600 m a.s.l. and, (4) microphyllous/nanophyllous zone from 2600-2700 m a.s.l., coinciding with the altitudinal vegetation zonation. This pattern is different from that in other tropical mountains, which usually show a gradual shift from a mesophyllous zone in the lowland to a nanophyllous zone in the upper subalpine. Stressful conditions such as steep topography (1200-2300 m a.s.l.), cloud cover, decrease of temperature, strong winds (2600-2700 m a.s.l.) could have influenced the altitudinal leaf size zonation on Mt. Pulog. The complex phytogeographical position of Mt. Pulog as a transition region between the tropics and subtropics have also influenced leaf size zonation as in eastern Himalaya, southwestern China and Taiwan.
41412364|The upper and poleward limit of tree distribution are usually determined by abiotic factors such as low temperature and strong winds. Thus, cold resistance is a key element for survival in high altitudes and latitudes where conditions can reduce plant growth. A trade-off between resource allocation to cold resistance and growth could emerge in populations frequently exposed to low temperatures like those in the treeline zone. We studied annual height growth and ice nucleation temperature in Nothofagus pumilio (Nothofagaceae) populations growing in its extremes of altitudinal distribution and in 3 sites situated on a latitudinal gradient in the Chilean Andes. Additionally, gas exchange, water and nitrogen use efficiency and total soluble sugar (TSS) were also measured as possible mechanisms for survival in high altitudes. Individuals from the treeline populations showed lower annual height growth and lower ice nucleation temperatures compared with those from lower populations. In the same way, individuals from more poleward populations showed lower annual height growth and lower ice nucleation temperatures. Gas exchange, water and nitrogen use efficiency and TSS were also higher in the high altitude populations. The results obtained support the hypothesis of trade-off, because the upper and poleward populations showed more cold resistance but a lower height growth. Additionally, we show that cold resistance mechanisms do not impact the physiological performance, suggesting possible adaptation of the high altitude populations. Low temperatures may be affecting cellular growth instead of photosynthesis, creating a pool of carbohydrates that could participate in cold tolerance. Other abiotic and biotic factors should be also assessed to fully understand the distributional range o Nothofagus species.
20146625|Interest in the restoration of riparian habitat is increasing. However, little is known about factors responsible for riparian communities, especially grasslands. In order to construct plant communities for a restoration project in the floodplain of a large river in the Midwestern United States, we sampled four floodplains with various disturbance regimes located in Illinois and Missouri. They were chosen to be representative of different plant communities of floodplains, with a focus on herbaceous communities. The areas included backwater lakes, alluvial fans, groundwater seep marshes, oxbow marshes, seasonally inundated grassland, and non-inundated grassland. Vegetation, soils and groundwater or standing water depth were measured at various intervals along transects. Communities were produced using TWINSPAN and tested for differences in environmental factors. The soil morphology, taxonomic classification, and fertility parameters were similar among sites. Environmental factors influencing community composition were the presence of permanent water and silt deposition. We conclude that water depth determines species composition in permanently wet areas. Silt deposition determines composition in seasonally inundated grassland. Where silt deposition is high enough to inhibit seedling emergence, dominance is attained by plants able to reproduce vegetatively by rhizomes. Such a reproductive process leads to nearly monotypic stands produced by large clones. Results are discussed in relation to models of riparian processes and succession.
20050828|The role seed predators play in influencing the dynamics of plant populations has been little studied in Australia. The interaction of ant dispersal and seed predation on the soil seedbank in six shrubby species of Grevillea from the Sydney region of southeastern Australia was examined in selective exclusion experiments, seed array trials and placement of single seeds on the ground. Two distinct seed types in Grevillea were examined and different seed dispersal and post-dispersal seed predation patterns were associated with each: (a) seeds lacking an elaiosome were not attractive to ants and annual seed losses of between 82 and 95% were found in vegetation unburnt for greater than 8 years. Native rodents, Rattus fuscipes, and macropods, Wallabia bicolor, were responsible for these seed losses; (b) seeds with an elaiosome were rapidly handled by ants. Two functional types of ants were recognised. Most encounters were by ants that were small (Local) relative to seed size and these ants simply removed the elaiosome in situ or moved seeds only small distances (&lt20 cm). Some 0-24% of ant/seed encounters were by large (Removalist) ant species that were capable of moving seeds back to nests. In addition, Rattus fuscipes and Wallabia bicolor consumed at least 32-68% of seeds of Grevillea species with an elaiosome. Ants may reduce the overall levels of seed predation where seeds moved by Removalist ant species escape predation and are deposited in safe sites, hence allowing more seeds to reach the persistent soil seedbank. Mammals do not consume all seeds when ants are excluded, allowing for the potential for some seed escape from predation after seeds are discarded by Local ant species.
20146689| Multispectral aerial photographs from 1986, 1989 and 1997 were used for mapping and assessment of changes in sub-alpine vegetation of the Krkonoe Mts Plateau (1300 to 1400 m a. s. l.), Czech Republic. Scanned aerial photographs were digitally processed by various remote sensing methods, such as histogram equalization, principal component transformation, Normalised Difference Vegetation Index, and classification (both unsupervised, i.e., Iterative Self-Organizing Data Analysis Technique, and supervised, i.e., Parallelepiped and Maximum Likelihood algorithm). The results were geometrically corrected by registration into orthophoto images. Field data from 1991 assisted in class labelling and vegetation description. A detailed vegetation analysis was conducted using 1989 multispectral photographs since the field-verification and comparison to ground-based vegetation map could be done with only two-year difference. The unsupervised classification resulted in six classes (three of them mixed) with a 60.6% overall accuracy of unmixed classes. Some important vegetation types could not be separated. The supervised classification resulted in nine classes with the overall accuracy of 81.1%. The most common vegetation types were: mat-grass communities (40.4% of the total area) and tall grass and herb communities (23.1%). Pine stands, the best separated of vegetation types, were evaluated on the multispectral photographs from 1986 and 1997 and the P. mugo stands doubled in area over 10 years. The aerial-photograph based maps were compared with an available vegetation map obtained by a field survey. The correspondence between both ranged from 24-75%, with the highest values obtained for pine stands and mat-grass communities. In comparison to the field survey, aerial photography provided less detail and vegetation was characterized mostly by dominant species. The approach failed to map small patches of heterogeneous or atypical vegetation and to differentiate vegetation types with dominants of similar appearance. Nevertheless since this method is comparably less time- and labour-consuming, it seems suitable for mapping distinct vegetation types, surveying larger areas and identifying changes over time. 
40540340|Although water regime modification and salinity are recognised as significant threats to wetland ecosystems worldwide, the effects of long-term saline flooding (decades) on woody tree persistence are poorly quantified. We compared the condition, growth, structure and reproduction (sexual and asexual) of mature individuals of the clonal tree, Melaleuca ericifolia (Myrtaceae), that experienced continual (> 30 years) flooding with trees that were only intermittently (approximately every 5 years) flooded. An index developed to assess the condition of multistemmed trees found that continually flooded trees were in significantly poorer condition than intermittently flooded trees, having lower crown cover, foliar cover and foliar density, and a higher incidence of dead stags and dieback. Annual stem growth correlated strongly with condition scores. Evidence for a tradeoff between sexual and asexual reproductions was found; flooded trees were constrained in their vegetative lateral spread (< 12 m dia.) and flowered more than intermittently flooded trees, which were not restricted in lateral spread (~ 30 m dia.). Flooded trees used intensively by the colonially roosting Australian Sacred Ibis (Threskiornis molucca) were in especially poor condition. These trees flowered infrequently and produced the lowest number of infructescences, but produced many new vegetative stems (ramets) within their centre. Although chronic flooding appeared to compromise the condition of M. ericifolia trees in Dowd Morass, their existence upon woody hummocks (~ 40 cm high) upon which they are able to produce new stems is likely to be a key mechanism in their persistence. It is unknown, however, how long this process can maintain the existing population. Production and maintenance of a large aerial seed bank by living mature trees under flooded conditions may allow M. ericifolia to regenerate sexually upon drawdown and may be important for population persistence in the longer term.
20050992|Although desiccation tolerance is common in non-vascular plants, this adaptive trait is very rare in vascular plants. Desiccation-tolerant vascular plants occur particularly on rock outcrops in the tropics and to a lesser extent in temperate zones. They are found from sea level up to 2800 m. The diversity of desiccation-tolerant species as measured by number of species is highest in East Africa, Madagascar and Brazil, where granitic and gneissic outcrops, or inselbergs, are their main habitat. Inselbergs frequently occur as isolated monoliths characterized by extreme environmental conditions (i.e., edaphic dryness, high degrees of insolation). On tropical inselbergs, desiccation-tolerant monocotyledons (i.e., Cyperaceae and Velloziaceae) dominate in mat-like communities which cover even steep slopes. Mat-forming desiccation-tolerant species may attain considerable age (hundreds of years) and size (several m in height, for pseudostemmed species). Both homoiochlorophyllous and poikilochlorophyllous species occur. In their natural habitats, both groups survive dry periods of several months and regain their photosynthetic activity within a few days after rainfall. Other desiccation-tolerant species colonize shallow depressions, crevices and even temporarily water-filled rock pools on inselbergs. Desiccation-tolerant vascular plants occur in 13 families and are best represented within the monocotyledons and ferns. Only a few desiccation-tolerant dicots exist, in the Gesneriaceae, Myrothamnaceae and Scrophulariaceae. In total, about 330 species of vascular desiccation-tolerant plants are known, of which nearly 90% occur on inselbergs. With regard to morphological adaptations, the matforming monocotyledons are particularly remarkable due to the possession of roots with a velamen radicum, which is reported here in the genus Borya for the first time.
20051287|The response of plant growth to rising CO levels appears to depend on nutrient availability, but it is not known whether the growth of bog plants reacts similarly. We therefore studied the effects of elevated CO in combination with N supply on the growth of Sphagnum mosses and vascular plants in ombrotrophic bog vegetation. Because the growth of Sphagnum is less nutrient-limited than that of vascular plants, we hypothesized that Sphagnum would benefit from elevated CO. In our greenhouse experiment, peat monoliths (34 cm diameter, 40 cm deep) with intact bog vegetation were exposed to ambient (350 ppmv) or elevated (560 ppmv) atmospheric CO combined with low (no N addition) or high (5 g N
20146579|Given the multiplicity of products, human activity over the past thousand years has strongly interacted with pine forest distribution. The results of human activity and its impact on the pine forests is a problem that began in the past, when wood and pine ecosystems were not valued, and whose repercussions are still felt today; notably in changes in fire regime, in grazing/browsing intensity, in harvesting, in land use, in plantation activity, in expansion of forest/urban interface, and in secondary urban settlements. Conservation, in this sense, means the maintenance of and the restoration or improvement of the abiotic and biotic features, which form the habitat of a species, as well as controlling activities, which may indirectly result in the deterioration of such habitats. Conservation, therefore, ranges from the conservation of genetic resources in several forms (seed banks, seed forests, conservation in situ of relic populations), to the elimination of human induced disturbances, to the planning of new activities, to the application of proper silvicultural tending and the pursuance of international Conventions, Regulations and Resolutions. The aim of this paper is to emphasise the main legislative tools, which are represented by the array of Conventions, Directives, Regulations and Resolutions concerning the environment and the ecological networks (NATURA 2000, EMERALD, EUNIS).
23362431|Ephemeral wetland vegetation (EWV) in the Mediterranean Basin appears in temporary wetlands where favourable hydrological conditions exist only for a short time and year-to-year variability is high. Here, we report results of the seed germination, dormancy and desiccation tolerance of eight annual species living in this vulnerable habitat. Experiments were performed in laboratory conditions under constant and alternating temperatures and using a 12-h daily photoperiod or continuous darkness. Whilst germination and dormancy differed between the species, seeds demonstrated an absolute light requirement and prefer cool temperatures to germinate (mean 15 C). Logistic regression analysis showed significant effects of alternating temperature in all the species except in Tillaea vaillantii whose germination was stimulated by constant temperature. Mean temperature was a significant term in the logistic models for the dormant species Cicendia filiformis, Linum radiola and T. vaillantii for which after-ripening was an effective dormancy-breaking treatment. From these results we infer three strategies of regeneration by seeds: (1) species germinating during the whole vegetative season (2) species germinating in a narrow temperature niche and (3) species requiring flooding (T. vaillantii). Seeds possessed orthodox storage behaviour (tolerating drying to 15 % relative humidity) and may be amenable to seed banking as a means of ex-situ conservation. We conclude that EWV species are adapted to the irregular presence of water with characteristics that are typical of neither truly aquatic nor wetland plants. These EWV species showed a more plastic germination response based on alternating and constant temperature sensitivity and a low proportion of dormant seeds.
20146922|Landslides are a frequent disturbance in montane tropical rainforests that result in heterogeneous environments for plant and soil development. Natural inputs of organic matter and associated nutrients contribute to soil fertility patchiness within landslides. To test the importance of organic matter and nutrient addition to landslide soil fertility and plant growth, we mixed three types of organic matter substrates that are common to landslides (Cecropia leaves, Cyathea fronds, and forest soil) and commercial fertilizer into recently eroded soil on five landslides in Puerto Rico. In addition, we sowed seeds of two common landslide colonists (Paspalum and Phytolacca) into the soil treatment plots in order to test treatment effects on seed germination and seedling growth. Soils, seed germination, and seedling growth were monitored for one year and the field experiment was replicated in a one-year screen-house experiment. Despite highly variable initial landslide conditions, responses to soil treatments were similar across all five landslides. The forest soil addition increased total soil nitrogen and soil organic matter on landslides within 60 days, whereas Cecropia leaves provided increased soil organic matter only after 210 days. Commercial fertilizer increased plant-available soil nitrogen and phosphorus within 60 days, and also increased seed germination of Paspalum seeds when compared to soils treated with Cecropia leaves. Despite these positive effects of treatments on soils and germination, there were no treatment effects on seedling growth in the field, perhaps due to leaching or other losses of soil nutrients evident in the lack of significant treatment differences in soil resources at 370 days. In the screen-house, forest soil and commercial fertilizer treatments significantly increased soil fertility and seedling growth of both Paspalum and Phytolacca compared to control treatments. These different responses to three common types of organic matter inputs create patchy soil conditions with important implications for plant colonization and landslide succession.
41412379|Despite the general belief that the interaction between extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) and ants is mutualistic, the defensive function of EFNs has been poorly documented in South American savannas. In this article, we evaluate the potential impact of EFNs (benefits and costs) on two species of plants from the dry areas of Central Brazil, Anemopaegma album and Anemopaegma scabriusculum (Bignoniaceae). In particular, we characterize the composition of substances secreted by the EFNs, test whether EFNs attract ants, and whether ants actually present a defensive role, leading to reduced herbivory and increased plant fitness. Histochemical analyses indicated that EFNs from both species of Anemopaegma secrete an exdate that is composed of sugars, and potentially lipids and proteins. Furthermore, EFNs from both species were shown to present a significant role in ant attraction. However, contrary to common expectations, ants were not found to protect plants against herbivore attack. No effect was found between ant visitation and flower or fruit production in A. album, while the presence of ants led to a significant decrease in flower production in A. scabriusculum. These results suggest that EFNs might present a similar cost and benefit in A. album, and a higher cost than benefit in A. scabriusculum. Since the ancestor of Anemopaegma occupied humid forests and already presented EFNs that were maintained in subsequent lineages that occupied savannas, we suggest that phylogenetic inertia might explain the presence of EFNs in the species of Anemopaegma in which EFNs lack a defensive function. proteins. Furthermore, EFNs from both species were shown to present a significant role in ant attraction. However, contrary to common expectations, ants were not found to protect plants against herbivore attack. No effect was found between ant visitation and flower or fruit production in A. album, while the presence of ants led to a significant decrease in flower production in A. scabriusculum. These results suggest that EFNs might present a similar cost and benefit in A. album, and a higher cost than benefit in A. scabriusculum. Since the ancestor of Anemopaegma occupied humid forests and already presented EFNs that were maintained in subsequent lineages that occupied savannas, we suggest that phylogenetic inertia might explain the presence of EFNs in the species of Anemopaegma in which EFNs lack a defensive function.
20146419|Light partitioning is thought to contribute to the coexistence of rain forest tree species. This study evaluates the three premises underlying the light partitioning hypothesis; 1) there is a gradient in light availability at the forest floor, 2) tree species show a differential distribution with respect to light, and 3) there is a trade-off in species performance that explains their different positions along the light gradient. To address these premises, we studied the light environment, growth, and survival of saplings of ten non-pioneer tree species in a Bolivian moist forest. Light availability in the understorey was relatively high, with a mean canopy openness of 3.5% and a mean direct site factor of 6.8%. Saplings of two light demanding species occurred at significantly higher light levels than the shade tolerant species. The proportion of saplings in low-light conditions was negatively correlated with the successional position of the species. Light-demanding species were characterised by a low share of their saplings in low-light conditions, a high sapling mortality, a fast height growth and a strong growth response to light. These data show that all three premises for light partitioning are met. There is a clear gradient in shade-tolerance within the group of non-pioneer species leading to a tight packing of species along the small range of light environments found in the understorey.
20051347|The demography of Primula veris, a typical species of the species-rich Mesobromion grasslands, was investigated at two contrasting habitats in Eastern Belgium. Both a forested site and a clear-cut parcel were part of formerly larger calcareous grassland areas. By monitoring the demographic response of the target species, this study attempts to clarify the differences in fecundity, growth and survival between a restored and degraded calcareous grassland site. A study of plant traits showed a decrease in number of flowers, inflorescence stalks and plant size under a closing tree canopy. We surveyed individuals in permanent plots between 1999 and 2001. At the forested site, a first sign of decline included lower proportions of flowering individuals and afterwards an increase in mortality was found. Alternatively, removing canopy resulted in an immediate flowering response and both increased growth and seedling recruitment the year after. At both sites, survival rates strongly depended on the initial state, location and year. Projection matrix analysis revealed large differences in modelled population growth rates between sites and years. Under closing canopy the species showed only slow population decline, but the decrease was larger in the last survey year when higher mortality affected the number of reproductive individuals. Transitions between stages with the highest impact on population growth rate were identified by elasticity analysis. If calcareous grassland is forested, survival of reproductive adults is predicted to be very important for conservation of P. veris populations. However, seedling recruitment needs to be raised to guarantee long-term persistence of the populations. On the other hand, clear-felling of a site for restoration of species-rich calcareous grasslands may result in a rapid recovery of certain species.
20050922|Beaver (Caster canadensis) foraging and edaphic conditions can modify the vegetational characteristics of woody plant community in lowland boreal forests. Effective management of these areas requires an understanding of the relative contribution of these factors in shaping the woody plant community structure. Our objective was to quantify the effects of herbivory by beavers and edaphic conditions on woody plant community organization of lowland boreal forests surrounding beaver ponds. Woody vegetation and soils were sampled at 15 ponds occupied by beavers and one other pond abandoned by them in southern Algonquin Park, Ontario. We measured spatial variation in plant diversity, foraging rates and sapling recruitment of trees and shrubs along gradients of beaver foraging intensity and soil moisture, P, K, Mg, and pH. Beavers fed preferentially on a small number of deciduous species and the number of cut stems declined sharply with increasing distance from ponds. Conifers increased in relative dominance to deciduous species in the presence of beavers. Plant species richness and stem and basal area diversity peaked at intermediate distances (about 25 m) from ponds. Sapling recruitment by non-preferred species was positively related to foraging intensity. Total stem abundance and basal area and sapling recruitment by four preferred species (Populus tremuloides, Acer rubrum, Acer saccharum and Corylus cornuta) were negatively related to foraging intensity. However, by including Alnus rugosa and Salix bebbiana (also preferred by beavers) these patterns changed, becoming positively related to foraging intensity. There was also a pronounced gradient in soil moisture, which also decreased with distance from ponds. The other measured edaphic variables did not vary consistently with distance from ponds. Sapling recruitment in mesic versus xeric species varied consistently with hybrid conditions along the moisture gradient, such that variation in moisture also could produce the observed pattern of plant diversity. Diversity patterns changed three years after beaver abandonment of a pond, though sapling recruitment patterns in preferred and non-preferred species around the abandoned pond were similar to the occupied ponds. These observations suggest spatial variation in woody plant richness and diversity could be determined by combined effects of both herbivory (disturbance by beavers) and variable responses of different species to edaphic conditions.
24552030|Ecological restoration aims to augment and steer the composition and contribution of propagules for community regeneration in degraded environments. We quantified patterns in the abundance, richness, and diversity of seed and bud banks across an 11-year chronosequence of restored prairies and in prairie remnants to elucidate the degree to which the germinable seed bank, emerged seedlings, belowground buds, and emerged ramets were related to community regeneration. There were no directional patterns in the abundance, richness, or diversity of the germinable seed bank across the chronosequence. Emerged seedling abundance of sown species decreased during restoration. Richness and diversity of all emerged seedlings and non-sown emerged seedling species decreased across the chronosequence. Conversely, abundance and richness of belowground buds increased with restoration age and belowground bud diversity of sown species increased across the chronosequence. Numbers of emerged ramets also increased across the chronosequence and was driven primarily by the number of graminoid ramets. There were no temporal changes in abundance and richness of sown and non-sown emerged ramets, but diversity of sown emerged ramets increased across the chronosequence. This study demonstrates that after initial seeding, plant community structure in restored prairies increasingly reflects the composition of the bud bank.
20146866|Herbaceous plant species richness typically declines with increasing productivity, but differences in the resources underlying these gradients are often ignored. This study adds to the small number of studies examining the effects of water and mineral nutrients on biomass and richness in oldfield communities. We established 60 4 m plots in a goldenrod-dominated oldfield to test the differential effects of water and mineral nutrients on community properties. Species richness declined with added nutrients, but increased with added water. Aboveground biomass increased only when both nutrients and water were added. Leaf area index increased with added nutrients alone, although the increase was greater when water was also added. Understory light levels decreased with added nutrients, but not with added water; however, the pergram effect of biomass on understory light levels did not vary significantly among nutrient and water treatments. Our results suggest that water tends to enhance productivity, but does not cause the common decline in species richness that typically accompanies nitrogen additions. Rather, water increased richness through positive effects on either germination and establishment, or increased survival. These results are consistent with either increased light limitation or increased water limitation causing loss of species from nitrogen-rich habitats.
20146985|The measurement of plant dispersal is vital for understanding plant distribution and a abundance at different scales. However, dispersal is difficult to measure and there is a lack of guidance for researchers new to the subject. In this paper we provide advice on methods for measuring dispersal in the field and approaches to experimental design. First, we encourage clear exposition of the aims of the dispersal study and the ultimate use to which the data will be put (e.g. local dynamics, invasion processes, etc). We outline the types of dispersal exhibited by plants and emphasise that many species are dispersed by multiple processes, which are not necessarily related to putative adaptations. Few studies properly address the full range of processes by which a species is dispersed. We review methods for measuring plant dispersal, summarising the type of dispersal measured and problems with each method. We then outline the major questions about effort to be considered in sampling protocols and present an optimisation algorithm for designing dispersal studies given a suite of options, and biological and resource constraints. We propose and demonstrate a simulation modelling approach to comparing the data quality obtained by alternative experimental designs. Integrating simulation models with pilot studies offers a rapid route to improved estimation methods. We then discuss functions commonly fit to dispersal data and recommend caution as none is a priori the best description of the dispersal process. Finally, we call for a better description and understanding of dispersal kernels by: a more rigorous approach to designing dispersal measurement; better targeting of dispersal studies to particular questions; and achieving a deeper understanding of the mechanisms underlying dispersal, so that we can move from descriptions of pattern to a grasp of process.
41508855|The aim of this study was to determine the litterfall production and macronutrient (Ca, K, Mg, N, and P) deposition through leaf litter in four sites with different types of vegetation. Site one (Bosque Escuela) was located at 1600 m a.s.l. in a pine forest mixed with deciduous trees, second site (Crucitas at 550 m a.s.l.) in the ecotone of a Quercus spp. forest and the Tamaulipan thornscrub and third and fourth sites (Campus at 350 m a.s.l. and Cascajoso at 300 m a.s.l., respectively) were in the Tamaulipan thornscrub. Litter constituents (leaves, reproductive structures, twigs, and miscellaneous residues) were collected at 15-day intervals from December 21, 2006, throughout December 20, 2007. Collections were carried out in ten litter traps (1.0 x 1.0 m) randomly situated at each site of approximately 2,500 m. Total annual litterfall deposition was 4407, 7397, 6304, and 6527 kg ha y for Bosque Escuela, Crucitas, Campus and Cascajoso, respectively. Of total annual litter production, leaves were higher varying from 74 (Bosque Escuela) to 86% (Cascajoso) followed by twigs from 4 (Cascajoso) to 14% (Crucitas), reproductive structures from 6 (Bosque Escuela) to 10% (Crucitas), and miscellaneous litterfall from < 1 (Campus) to 12% (Bosque Escuela). The Ca annual deposition was significantly higher in Cascajoso (232.7 kg ha y), followed by Campus (182.3), Crucitas (130.5) and Bosque Escuela (30.3). The K (37.5, 32.5, 24.8, 7.2, respectively), Mg (22.6, 17.7, 13.7, 4.5, respectively) followed the same pattern as Ca. However, N was higher in Campus (85.8) followed by Crucitas (85.1), Cascajoso (68.3), and Bosque Escuela (18.3). The P was higher in Campus and Crucitas (4.0) followed by Cascajoso (3.4) and Bosque Escuela (1.4). On an annual basis for all sites, the order of nutrient deposition through leaf litter was Ca > N> P > Mg > P, whereas on site basis of total nutrient deposition (Ca + N + K + Mg + P), the order was Cascajoso > Campus > Crucitas > Bosque Escuela. Ca, K, Mg, N, and P nutrient use efficiency values in leaf litter were higher in Bosque Escuela, while lower figures were acquired in Cascajoso and Crucitas sites. It seems that the highest litterfall deposition was found in the ecotone of a Quercus spp. forest and the Tamaulipan thornscrub; however, the Tamaulipan thornscrub vegetation alone had better leaf litter nutrient return.
40305669|Increased atmospheric nitrogen deposition has shifted plant dominance from ericaceous plants to grass species. To elucidate the reduced competitiveness of heather, we tested the hypothesis that additions of nitrogen reduce the concentrations of phenolics and condensed tannins in ericaceous leaves and retard mycorrhizal colonisation in ericaceous plants. We also tested the negative effects of reduced light intensity on carbon-based secondary compounds and mycorrhizal colonisation in ericaceous plants. (2) We performed a field inventory at three heathland sites in the Netherlands varying in nutrient supply and light intensity. Leaves of ericaceous plants and grasses were collected and analysed for concentrations of tannins, phenolics and nutrients. Similarly, we took root samples to record mycorrhizal colonisation and soil samples to measure the soil mineralisation. In addition, we conducted two-factorial experiments with Calluna vulgaris plants, in which we varied fertiliser and shade levels under greenhouse and field conditions. (3) The field inventory revealed that nitrogen addition and shading both negatively affected the concentration of total phenolics. The total phenolics and condensed tannin concentrations were positively correlated (P < 0.001), but in the field experiment, the condensed tannins were not significantly affected by the treatments. Our results provide the first evidence that the carbon nutrient balance can be used to predict the amount of total phenolics in the dwarf shrub C. vulgaris. (4) In the field experiments, shading of plants resulted in significantly less mycorrhizal colonisation. Only in the greenhouse experiment did addition of nitrogen negatively affect mycorrhizal colonisation. (5) Our results imply that increased atmospheric nitrogen deposition can depress the tannin concentrations in ericaceous plants and the mycorrhizal colonisation in roots, thereby reducing the plants' competitiveness with respect to grasses. Additionally, if ericaceous plants are shaded by grasses that have become dominant due to increased nitrogen supply, these effects will be intensified and competitive replacement will be accelerated.
20146932|Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. rotundata is an invasive plant in eastern Australia. It produces large quantities of fleshy fruits, which are dispersed by birds and mammals, and has the potential to alter ecological processes in native plant communities in several ways. Seed dispersal of native plants growing amongst C. monilifera could be decreased (if C. monilifera is effective in competing for limited seed dispersers), increased (if C. monilifera-infested vegetation supports more seed dispersers), or be unchanged (if there is sufficient separation in fruiting time or dispersal agents between the species, or if dispersers are not limiting). We compared the rates of removal of fruits of native plants (Monotoca elliptica and Elaeocarpus spp.) from experimental stations in C. monilifera stands, in uninfested coastal vegetation, and in vegetation from which C. monilifera had been eliminated with herbicide. The rate of removal of fruits differed between plant species and locations, but not between any of the habitat treatments. This may have resulted from temporal separation of peak fruit availability between M. elliptica and C. monilifera, and differences in fruit morphology and disperser assemblages between Elaeocarpus spp. and C. monilifera. We also measured removal of C. monilifera fruits from stations in C. monilifera stands and from where C. monilifera had been eliminated with herbicide. In the herbicide-treated habitat, removal of C. monilifera fruits was reduced. This may assist control efforts and suggests that, to reduce seed dispersal, dense (core) populations should be targeted in control programs.
41686751|Processes involved in the structuring of forest communities include: (1) ecological sorting, where species poorly suited to local conditions are subject to environmental filtering and competitive displacement; (2) disturbance, resulting in stochastic removal of individuals and reinitiating successional regimes and (3) dispersal limitation, inhibiting the infiltration of species into preferred sites. Temporal dynamics in these processes lead to difficulty inferring causal landscape-biota correlations. Complicating factors include potential for ontogenetic variation in habitat preferences among age classes, and inherent ambiguity regarding severity and coverage of historical disturbance events. Sorting species into age groups can provide relevant temporal information. Fundy National Park is a northern, mixed-temperate forest in Atlantic Canada (Acadian forest type), which was pervasively altered upon European settlement. Species frequency data for three tree age classes (saplings, juveniles and adults) in permanent sample plots (400 m, n = 33) were compared to environmental data, including soil chemistry, understory light conditions, physiography and disturbance history using ordination and randomization techniques. Abiotic and disturbance-related predictors of species distributions differed among life stages. Specifically, in the adult stage, stand age was a critical predictor of distribution, whereas in younger age classes environmental variables such as nutrient availability and soil moisture and drainage were key drivers of distribution. It is concluded that older populations were increasingly less constrained by environmental conditions, suggesting that adult populations bear the legacy of stochastic landscape alteration, thus appearing randomly distributed along environmental gradients. As younger populations gradually expand in distribution, they are filtered into preferred conditions by ecological sorting. These findings indicate the importance of considering age-class effects and site history in further assessments of interactions between landscapes and flora.
20050550|The natural forests of Yanbaru, in the northern part of Okinawa Island, harbor many endemic and endangered birds and mammals, and are dominated by an evergreen oak, Castanopsis sieboldii. The Simpson diversity (D) and equitability index (J) were calculated using survey data on number of stems ( 4.5 cm DBH) of each species found in sample plots. Near-climax old forests (age  50 yr, without pine trees) showed high species diversity of trees, 0.92  0.01 in D and 0.83  0.05 in J for trees of which DBH  4.5 cm, and 0.81  0.04 in D and 0.75  0.05 in J for trees of DBH  10 cm. These high values are comparable to those of tropical rain forests. Although even young forests showed high species diversity, diversity indices tended to increase with forest age. The U.S. Marine Corps leases the eastern half of Yanbaru which contains most of these near-climax forests. Conservation of natural forests in this area is recommended.
41412374|The influences of intraspecific competition on plant size inequality have been well documented, but interspecific effects on this topic remain little understood. Here we examined the effects of canopy shading and fine roots of the trees (Elaeagnus angustifolia) on size inequality of the grasses (Achnatherum splendens) in a temperate savanna community in northwest China. Three study plots of 400 m were divided into 4-m quadrats, within each of which (1) canopy shading was quantified by modeling cumulative direct solar radiation (CDSR) and (2) the root effect was quantified using an empirical relationship between tree fine root density (TFRD) and relative distance to tree bases. Morphological traits were measured to represent grass size. Redundancy analysis (RDA) was conducted to examine the relative influences of grass density, CDSR and TFRD on the coefficient of variation of grass size. Results showed that no significant correlation occurred between grass density and grass size inequality. Both CDSR and TFRD had significant negative correlations with grass size inequality, suggesting that canopy shading and the presence of fine roots of trees can, respectively, increase and reduce grass size inequality. Canopy shading and TFRD played competitive roles in determining grass size inequality, where the root effect was a stronger factor than canopy shading. The tree effects can substantially alter the intensity of water stress. In response, size inequality of the grasses could be influenced through size-specific growth/mortality and slowed size divergence. These mechanisms could operate together in the savanna community. size inequality, suggesting that canopy shading and the presence of fine roots of trees can, respectively, increase and reduce grass size inequality. Canopy shading and TFRD played competitive roles in determining grass size inequality, where the root effect was a stronger factor than canopy shading. The tree effects can substantially alter the intensity of water stress. In response, size inequality of the grasses could be influenced through size-specific growth/mortality and slowed size divergence. These mechanisms could operate together in the savanna community.
20051181|Shoreline strands of Mono Lake, California, show clear evidence of regular temporal change in plant communities and the soils associated with them along a primary successional sere, contradicting the traditional notion that succession sensu stricto does not occur in arid environments. We documented spatial patterns, and inferred temporal patterns from aerial photographs taken each decade from 1930, in communities of perennial shrubs and in characteristics of the physical environment in sand-dune and shoreline ecosystems on the north shore of Mono Lake, a receding terminal Quaternary lake in the Great Basin desert of the United States that is highly saline and alkaline. Our study plot was aligned with an extreme physicochemical gradient, representing a primary sere beginning with the historic, accelerated regression of Mono Lake since 1940 and ending with upland surfaces exposed by lake regression between 500 and 1000 years ago. Four shrub species composed most of the 7-11% percent cover of perennial vegetation: populations of Sarcobatus vermiculatus extended farthest toward the lake and colonized the most recently exposed and toxic surfaces; populations of Chrysothamnus nauseosus, Tetradymia tetrameres, and C. viscidiflorus ended at increasing distances (in this order) from the lake shore, reflecting each species' respectively lower tolerance of soil salinity, alkalinity, and toxic soil elements rather than the ability to disperse. Values of soil variables that decrease plant growth and establishment (EC, pH, B, S) were lower in older substrates, in the upper soil horizons, and at increasing distances from the lake, reflecting leaching and other pedogenic processes with time. Individuals of S. vermiculatus appeared to promote dune building by tolerating burial, enhancing their own growth and establishment, and catching more sand. We hypothesize that this process also facilitates the establishment of less stress tolerant species. Plant nutrients (N, P) decreased with depth, evidence of progressive soil enrichment by litter and leaf fall. Thus both allogenic processes (weathering of parent material) and autogenic processes (facilitation in particular) resulting from plant-environment interactions occurred and contributed to ecosystem change in this extreme primary sere, adhering to the strictest definition of succession.
20051340|Habitat associations with topography and canopy structure of 42 abundant tree species were studied in a 2.74-ha plot of tropical montane forest on Mount Kinabalu, Borneo. Many of these species belong to the same higher taxa including eight families and four genera. Analysis of intraspecific spatial distributions for stems  10 cm diameter revealed that 28 species (including all six species of Fagaceae) showed aggregated distributions at the 100-m and/or 400-m scales, and that 20 species showed habitat associations with topography by torus-translation tests; 17 species showed both characteristics. Species' associations with the local canopy structure were characterized by crown position index (CPI), which was defined relative to neighbour trees. The CPI differed greatly among individual stems at 10-40 cm diameter, and 19 species showed significantly different frequencies of crowns exposed vertically versus those shaded beneath the canopy. Mean growth rates at 10-40 cm diameter and size distributions of species were not related to topographic associations, but were explained by the associations with canopy structure; species with more exposed crowns grew faster and had less positively skewed distributions. Diversity in habitat associations was manifest between two genera (Syzygium and Tristaniopsis) in the family Myrtaceae and among species in these genera, but was less evident in other families and two genera (Garcinia and Lithocarpus).
40212861|We investigated the effects of realistic variation in plant species and functional group composition, with species occurring at realistic abundances, on ecosystem processes in exoticdominated California grassland communities. Progressive species removals from microcosm communities, designed to mimic nested variation in diversity observed in the field, reduced grassland production, resistance to intentional invasions, and resistance to natural colonization by new species. Three lines of evidence point to the particular importance of intensified competition within a single functional group--late- active forbs--in explaining the observed effects of realistic species loss order on community resistance. First, reduced success of naturally colonizing species in more diverse assemblages was dominated by declining colonization by late-active forbs. Second, increasing late-active forb biomass appeared to reduce the biomass of intentionally introduced yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis, a lateseason forb) both within and across diversity levels. Finally, starthistle addition reduced biomass of resident late-season forbs but not of any other functional group. Increasing diversity increased light levels and soil moisture availability in spring and summer, providing a proximate mechanism linking our realistic species loss order to decreased community resistance. Starthistle addition reduced light and soil moisture availability but not N across richness levels, mirroring the apparent effects of the additional late-active forb species present in higher diversity treatments. Species losses that entail the early loss of whole or key functional groups could, through mechanisms like those we explore, have greater ecosystem consequences than those suggested by randomized-loss experiments.
40802418|The relationships between rarity (i.e., range-size, local abundance) and niche-breadth can be important to assess the risks the species face under global change, namely those resulting from fire regime change. In fire areas, germination is critical for establishing after fire for many species. We examined the relationships between rarity and germination niche-breadth for 53 plant species of two life-forms (chamaephytes and hemicryptophytes) growing in Eastern Spain. Rarity was measured as geographic range-size and as local abundance. Local abundance was evaluated at two sites differing in their post-fire successional status (a recently burned area and a long-unburned one). Germination niche-breadth was measured as the mean germination evenness index from four germination experiments that subjected the seeds to various germinating conditions characteristics of fire environments. Correlations between rarity (range-size, local abundance) and niche-breadth were calculated in cross-species mode or by way of phylogenetically independent contrasts, and either for the 53 species (all-species set) or for each of two life-form groups (chamaephytes, hemicryptophytes). In general, no significant correlations were found between the rarity measures and germination nichebreadth for the all-species set. However, significant correlations emerged when the analyses were done separating species by life-forms. Germination nichebreadth was positively correlated with range-size for chamaephytes, and negatively for hemicryptophytes. In addition, germination niche-breadth was uncorrelated, or negatively so, with local abundance for chamaephytes and hemicryptophytes, respectively. While no correlation between range-size and local abundance was found for chamaephytes, a negative one was obtained for hemicryptophytes. We conclude that rarity/germination-niche relationships varied by life-form. This pattern of relationships was obscured when all species were joined in a single group. Based on the contrasting patterns of correlations obtained for each life-form we argue that the changes in the germinating environment caused by alterations in fire regime are likely to differentially affect these two groups of species.
40926889|There is concern that secondary forests dominated by introduced species, known as novel forests, increase taxonomical similarity between localities and lead to biotic homogenization in humandominated landscapes. In Puerto Rico, agricultural abandonment has given way to novel forests dominated by the introduced African tulip tree Spathodea campanulata Beauv. (Bignoniaceae). In this study, I characterized the tree species composition of S. campanulata forests in Puerto Rico as means to evaluate if biotic homogenization is occurring. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling was used to examine what variables were related to the large (> 10cm diameter at breast height [DBH]), small (> 2.5 to < 10 cm DBH), and juvenile (< 2.5 cm DBH) tree species composition of 20 sites. Species composition was strongly related to substrate properties, less related to land use history, and unrelated to spatial attributes. The introduced species component was low (mean = 17%, S.E. = 1.8) and compositional differences were mostly due to native tree species of secondary to old growth forests on equivalent substrates.Animals appear to disperse most species (86%) into these forests yet because of this some introduced species will persist. Although uncommon species were largely absent, recent species establishment is shaped by substrate properties making biotic homogenization in these forests unlikely. The S. campanulata forests of Puerto Rico facilitate native tree species establishment in lands where poor management practices extirpated the original forest. These results highlight the importance of remnant old growth forests or trees that act as seed dispersal sources and facilitate native species recovery in novel forests.
23500350|In fragmented landscapes, the sharp transitions between remnant habitats and those created by human disturbances result in "edge effects". Changes in microhabitat characteristics (for example, the height at which epiphytic plants grow on their host trees) may, however, modulate these effects. We evaluated how distance to the edge and height on the host tree affect seed germination and adult occurrence of the austral-forest epiphyte Sarmienta repens. The negative effect of edges on germination and adult occurrence was modulated by a vertical gradient (height) with contrasting effects on seed germination and survival to adulthood. Seed germination was affected by both height and distance to the forest edge, increasing away from forest edges for plants growing on trees in mid-story (36 m) and canopy zones (612 m) but being unaffected by the distance to the edge for plants located in understory zones (<3 m above the ground). Adult occurrence, in contrast, increased with both height and distance to the edge. As a result, seeds deposited near edges germinated best at a microhabitat (understory zone) inadequate for subsequent survival. Our results stress the importance of maintaining intact forest areas, free from edge influences and hosting large trees, to preserve the rich epiphytic flora characteristic of humid forests.
40926890|Vincetoxicum rossicum (pale swallowwort) is a non-native, perennial, herbaceous vine in the Apocynaceae. The species' abundance is steadily increasing in the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada. Little is known about Vincetoxicum species recruitment and growth. Therefore, we conducted a field experiment in New York State to address this knowledge gap. We determined the establishment, survival, and growth of V. rossicum during the first 2 years after sowing in two old fields subjected to four disturbance regimens. We hypothesized that establishment and survival would be higher in treatments with greater disturbance. At the betterdrained location, overall establishment was 15  1% [mean  standard error] and did not differ among treatments. At the poorly drained location, establishment varied by treatment; mowed and control plots had greater establishment [10  2%] than herbicide + tillage and herbicide-only plots [1.6  0.5%]. Of those seedlings that emerged, overall survival was high at both locations (70-84%). Similarly, total (above + belowground) biomass was greater in herbicide + tillage and herbicide-only plots than in mowed and control plots at both locations. Thus, V. rossicum was successful in establishing and surviving across a range of disturbance regimens particularly relative to other old field species, but growth was greater in more disturbed treatments. The relatively high-establishment rates in old field habitats help explain the invasiveness of this Vincetoxicum species in the northeastern U.S. and southeastern Canada.
20146983|Tree species assemblages described by landscape-scale forest inventory data both agreed and differed from those described by intensive, site specific studies in Puerto Rico's highly disturbed northern karst belt. Species assemblages found on hill tops (typified by Tabebuia heterophylla or Bursera simaruba with Coccoloba diversifolia, Licaria parvifolia, and Drypetes alba), abandoned coffee shade (Guarea guidonia, Dendropanax arboreus, Inga vera, and Persea americana), early successional forest (Tetrazygia elaeagnoides with Bucida bursera), and reverting pasture (Spathodea campanulata and Casearia guianensis) fit well with previously described forest types. However, systematic sampling captured more marginal forest and showed greater importance of introduced species that comprise/dominate the forest in these areas, particularly S. campanulata. Therefore some assemblages were found to be more mixed and less defined than those observed in small scale intensive studies. Because forest inventory sampling includes less defined forest types and areas that are on the margins of environmental gradients, forest inventory data were less able to show the relationships between detailed forest types and environmental gradients observed in other studies. However, at the landscape level, forest inventory data complements and expands on the findings from intensive studies resulting in a clearer, unbiased view of the region's forests.
23362487|Invasive species may leave behind legacies that persist even after removal, inhibiting subsequent restoration efforts. We examined the soil legacy of Cytisus scoparius, a nitrogen-fixing, putatively allelopathic shrub invading the western US. We tested the hypothesis that allelopathy plays a critical role in the depressive effect of Cytisus on the key native Douglas-fir, both directly on tree growth and indirectly via effects on its ectomycorrhizal fungi (EMF). In a greenhouse factorial experiment, we used activated carbon to inhibit Cytisus-produced allelochemicals and sucrose to reduce elevated nitrogen (N). We found that: (1) Cytisus-invaded soils depressed Douglas-fir growth compared to uninvaded forest soils. The effect of adding Cytisus litter was positive (possibly reflecting an N fertilization effect) only in the presence of activated carbon, providing evidence for a role of allelopathic compounds. Activated carbon did not increase growth in the absence of Cytisus litter. Finally, sucrose addition provided weak support for a nitrogen effect of Cytisus litter. (2) Seedlings grown in Cytisus soils had lower EMF abundance compared to those in uninvaded forest soils. In forest soil from one site, adding Cytisus litter also decreased EMF abundance. Douglas-fir growth increased significantly with EMF across sites and soils suggesting that changes in EMF were linked to tree growth. The fungal taxon Cenococcum geophilum was significantly depressed in Cytisus soils compared to forest soils, while Rhizopogon rogersii abundance was similar across soil types. These results together suggest an overall negative effect of Cytisus on the growth of a dominant native tree and its fungal symbionts. Our study suggests how the role of allelopathy in ecological restoration may play out on two time scales: through immediate, direct impacts on native plants as well as through long-term, persistent impacts mediated by the collapse or transformation of microbial communities.
20050420|The annual savanna grasses Chloris virgata (C) and Tragus berteronianus (C) and the tree Acacia tortilis were exposed in a greenhouse to elevated UV-B radiation (
20050783|Changes in plant species richness and community composition were investigated across a fence separating heavily grazed communal and lightly grazed commercial farming systems in Namaqualand, South Africa. No significant differences in plant species richness between communal and commercial farming systems were detected either locally within individual plots or overall across all plots. Within-plot, richness of species tolerant of grazing, such as annuals and geophytes, has increased, while the richness of large palatable shrub species has decreased on the communal rangeland. In terms of plant cover, species' responses to grazing were strongly associated with growth form. Annuals and geophytes formed the majority of grazing increasers, while large, presumably palatable, shrubs and leaf succulents were characteristic grazing decreasers. An investigation into population processes of five shrub species revealed that heavy grazing on the communal rangeland has resulted in: reduced size of palatable shrub species; reduced flower production and seedling recruitment of palatable species; increased density and recruitment of the unpalatable shrub, Galenia africana. Reductions in shrub volume, reproductive output and seedling recruitment were most marked in the palatable shrub Osteospermum sinuatum and were in the order of 90%. The results are further discussed in terms of their relevance to rangeland dynamics and the current land use practices of the region.
23500370|A negative species richnessproductivity relationship is often described in grasslands at smaller scales. We aimed to study the effect of management on this relationship. In particular, we addressed the relative importance of biomass cutting, hay removal and nutrient impoverishment on species richness and growth form structure. We conducted fieldwork in flooded meadows in Alam-Pedja Nature Reserve, central Estonia. We sampled vegetation in managed and abandoned stands of two types of alluvial meadows, sedge and tall forb meadow. Aboveground biomass and litter were harvested, weighed and analysed for major plant nutrients by near infrared reflectance spectroscopy. Three groups of general additive models were developed and compared, addressing the impact of (i) productivity, (ii) nutrients and (iii) management regime on species richness. Managementmowing and hay removalreduced the amount of litter but not aboveground biomass. Management led to a decrease in nitrogen in the biomass and enhanced species richness, particularly in the tall forb meadow. The strongest determinant of species richness was the amount of litter, exhibiting a hump-shaped relationship with richness. The effect of nitrogen supply was significant, but explained less variation. Management increased the proportion of sedges in the sedge meadow and of small herbs in the tall forb meadow. We conclude that litter removal is the most important management means to support biodiversity. On highly productive sites, reducing nutrients via hay removal is of secondary importance within a timeframe of 10 years.
23362520|Opportunistic bird pollination has become more evident in studies that confirm distinct differences in floral adaptations that attract opportunistic, rather than specialist, bird pollinators. Pollination syndrome studies investigating the effectiveness of different pollinator guilds on reproduction seldom do so by measuring seed viability. We studied pollination in Aloe peglerae, a high altitude endemic succulent of the Magaliesberg mountain range, previously thought to be largely sunbird (specialist) pollinated. Using field observation and pollinator exclusion treatments, i.e. (i) open to all visitors, (ii) bird excluded, and (iii) all visitors excluded, we established that birds contributed significantly more to fruit (2.35.6 times) and seed (1.31.4 times) set than insect or self-pollination, respectively. Overall, pollination by opportunistic avian nectarivores amplified seed production per aloe 7 and 10 times compared to insects and self-pollination, respectively. One of three opportunistic nectarivores, the Cape Rock-Thrush (Monticola rupestris), played a significant role in pollination, contributing 60 % of all probes at inflorescences. The difference in reproductive output between insect visited and visitor excluded flowers was not significant and suggests possible self-pollination in A. peglerae which is particularly unusual in Aloe species. Breeding system experiments would help clarify this. In assessing the effectiveness of pollinator guild on seed viability, we found no differences in percentage seed viability, seed germination or seedling emergence between exclusion treatments. Seed viability and germination were low and variable; however, 19 % seedling emergence was observed across the treatments. Practically, the net effect of bird pollination may result in 812 times more potential seedlings compared to insect and self-pollination respectively. These findings highlight the importance of pollination by opportunistic avian nectarivores in Aloe.
20051237|We studied local and landscape variation of liana communities across habitats differing in soil and topography in the Lacandon tropical rain forest, southeast Mexico. All liana stems 1 cm diameter breast height (DBH) were sampled within each one of eight 0.5 ha plots. Two plots were sampled in each of the following habitats: alluvial-terrace, flood plain, low-hill, and karst-range. In the whole sampled area, we recorded 2092 liana stems
20051103|Maps of physiognomic classes of vegetation in the northeastern United States before European human impact and for the late 20th century, based on pollen data, closely resemble each other, indicating a robust pattern in the face of the novel and extensive disturbances of the last 500 years. On the other hand, species abundances have changed considerably, with today's vegetation having less Fagus L. and Tsuga Carrire and more Betula L., Picea A. Dietr., and Abies Miller. Picea and Castanea Miller increased from 1700 to 1900, but have decreased in this century. The difference between the main physiognomic classes has remained strong, however, with continuously more Picea, Abies and Betula in the north and more Quercus L. and Carya Nutt. in the south, indicating the dominance of climate in regulating the relative abundances of these genera. The vegetational patterning within these broad classes has changed in some places and remained stable in others, suggesting differences in local factors that determine relative species abundances. The influence of slight altitudinal gradients, for example, may influence forest composition only after several generations of trees, while substrate differences may be apparent in the first forest that regenerates after agricultural abandonment or logging. Forests of today, therefore, reflect complex interactions of disturbance and environment, and may be in equilibrium with some but not all features of their current environments.
40540352|The main objective of this study was to analyze if Acacia farnesiana, an introduced shrub from North and Central American tropics is spreading from areas in which it was introduced, and also to determine which animals operate as vectors for the shrub dispersion in the study area. The study site was located in southern Gran Canaria, one of the islands of the Canary Island archipelago. We selected six ravines in an area where approximately 40 plants of A. farnesiana were planted around 40 years ago. We analyzed the size structure of the population of A. farnesiana (density and biovolume) in the ravines, as well as its spatial distribution, in order to assess the degree of aggressiveness of this shrub in terms of spreading and expansion. Our results suggest that this shrub is spreading to new areas very quickly due to dispersion of seed by rabbits and an enhanced germination by the action of Mimoseste mimosae, a bruchid that decreases the germination period of the seed once it has separated from the fruit. Based on the results obtained in this study, we strongly suggest that managers of this area consider a management program to control further spread.
20051308|Many studies have investigated the density-dependent regulation of annual-plant populations on coastal sand dunes, but few have explored the consequences of competition for the coexistence of plants in these simple communities. We used neighbourhood techniques to parameterize competition and dispersal functions from field data collected for two species of dune annual (Aira praecox and Erodium cicutarium) over three successive years, and then combined these functions into spatially explicit simulation models. The population size of Aira varied enormously between years, while Erodium remained steady. Competition with neighbours reduced the spike length of Aira plants only in one of the three years (when its population density was highest), while competition with neighbouring Erodium plants appeared to result in the local death of Aira plants. However, these density-dependent effects were far too weak to generate the observed changes in the population size of Aira among years, or to maintain populations below the upper limits observed. The large-seeded Erodium was affected by intraspecific competition but was unaffected by small-seeded Aira plants. Therefore, the larger-seeded species was competitively superior to the smaller-seeded species, an affect that could promote coexistence (albeit weakly) by a competition-colonisation trade-off. Modal dispersion distances of Aira and Erodium were 45 and 60 mm respectively, greater than the radius within which competitive interactions occurred (40 mm). Theoretical studies suggest that under these conditions the spatial arrangement of plants should be nearly random. In fact Aira was spatially aggregated, especially when rare, suggesting that patchy mortality across the dunes was important in generating spatial structure. The study suggests that density dependence only weakly regulates dune annual communities, while year-to-year environmental variation exert major influences on population sizes and spatial structures.
20050890|Pollen and charcoal data from varved sediments of Lake Ahvenainen, southern Finland, were examined through ordination analyses to determine temporal groupings of vegetation. The ordination 'continually' changed throughout the pollen profile, indicating nonequilibrium system dynamics. However, temporal associations that were stationary existed during the history of vegetation change at Lake Ahvenainen, and these temporal associations were nested in a hierarchy. Weighted averaging regression and calibration were used to model the relationship between fire and vegetation within each temporal association. Fire was significantly related to the vegetation for nearly all temporal associations. Community dynamics within temporal associations were examined with cross-correlation analysis. Taxa were correlated with fire occurrence (charcoal fragments) within the temporal associations and classic successional recovery was confirmed. In addition, two temporal associations showed evidence of chaotic behavior. The long-term pollen-charcoal analysis supported three theories of system dynamics: (1) nonequilibrium long-term dynamics, (2) hierarchical structuring of temporally stationary associations, and (3) chaotic dynamics in stationary associations. These theories are not necessarily contradictory, but are scale dependent.
20051120|The net effects of one, two, and three spring burns in consecutive years on the aboveground biomass, species composition, and soil variables were assessed in two different mixed-grass prairie sites in south-western Manitoba. Precipitation in the first year was greater than the 30-year average but lower during the next three years. The first site (Area 6) was characterized by Bouteloua gracilis, Stipa spartea, Selaginella densa and lichens, while the second, somewhat drier site (Area 10) was dominated by B. gracilis and Carex spp. Each burn treatment was applied to 15 plots in a random block design. Vegetation and soil data collected following the third burn are presented. In general, the effects of repeated burning were more pronounced in the drier Area 10, where litter was significantly reduced with each additional burn. In Area 6, litter was significantly reduced only after three years of burning. In both sites, the cumulative effect of fire had no significant effect on total standing crop, even after three consecutive years of burning. In the drier Area 10, however, the biomass of several components shifted such that B. gracilis biomass increased significantly and forb biomass decreased significantly after three burns. Plant cover was also affected more in the drier Area 10. The cover of B. gracilis, the dominant C grass, significantly increased and Carex spp. cover decreased after two burns in the drier site. In Area 6, the most significant effect of fire was a reduction in Selaginella and lichen cover. Bare ground increased in both sites as the number of burns increased. There was little change in soil nutrients with burning, but soil moisture somewhat decreased and surface temperature significantly increased after three burns.
41412371|Plant performance is influenced by both top-down (e.g., herbivores) and bottom-up (e.g., soil nutrients) controls. Research investigating the collective effects of such factors may provide important insight into the success and management of invasive plants. Through a combination of observational and experimental field studies, we examined top-down and bottom-up effects on the growth and reproduction of an invasive plant, Linaria dalmtica. First, we assessed attack levels and impacts of an introduced biocontrol agent, the stem-mining weevil Mecinus janthinus, on L. dalmatica plants across multiple years and sites. Then, we conducted a manipulative experiment to examine the effects of weevil attack, soil nitrogen availability, and interspecific competition on L. dalmatica. We found substantial variations in weevil attack within populations as well as across sites and years. Observational and experimental data showed that increased weevil attack was associated with a reduction in plant biomass and seed production, but only at the highest levels of attack. Nitrogen addition had a strong positive effect on plant performance, with a twofold increase in biomass and seed production. Clipping neighboring vegetation resulted in no significant effects on L. dalmatica performance, suggesting that plants remained resource limited or continued to experienced belowground competitive effects. Overall, our research indicates that M. janthinus can exert top-down effects on L. dalmatica; however, weevil densities and attack rates observed in this study have not reached sufficient levels to yield effective control. Moreover, bottom-up controls, in particular, soil nitrogen availability, may have a large influence on the success and spread of this invasive plant. strong positive effect on plant performance, with a twofold increase in biomass and seed production. Clipping neighboring vegetation resulted in no significant effects on L. dalmatica performance, suggesting that plants remained resource limited or continued to experienced belowground competitive effects. Overall, our research indicates that M. janthinus can exert top-down effects on L. dalmatica; however, weevil densities and attack rates observed in this study have not reached sufficient levels to yield effective control. Moreover, bottom-up controls, in particular, soil nitrogen availability, may have a large influence on the success and spread of this invasive plant.
23362496|Allelopathy is recognized as an important process in plantplant interactions, but how it affects plant communities growing in competitive conditions has not been assessed. This article investigates whether the allelopathic effect of Festuca paniculata is modified by competition between target plants in subalpine grasslands. We hypothesized that plants growing in mixed stands will be more affected by allelochemicals than the same species in monoculture. At Lautaret pass (Northern French Alps), a pot experiment was designed. We used leachates from donor pots (Treatments: 1. Bare soil, 2. F. paniculata clipped, and 3. F. paniculata unclipped) to water target pots (Treatments: 1. Control (soil only), 2. Dactylis glomerata, 3. Agrostis capillaris, and 4. D. glomerata and A. capillaris). Target plants were cultivated during one growing season. The effects of leachates from donor pots and interspecific competition in target pots were evaluated by measuring the final biomass of plants. Soil fertility was controlled in all target pots by measuring NO 3 - , NH 4 + , N, and C % of the soil. Effect of target treatment under bare soil: Both D. glomerata and A. capillaris grew better in monocultures than in mixture. Effect of donor treatment on monocultures: Under bare soil, D. glomerata grew better than under F. paniculata leachates. By contrast, A. capillaris did not respond to donor pot treatment. Effect of donor treatment on mixtures: However, when both species were cultivated together under F. paniculata leachates, the biomass of D. glomerata was similar to that in monoculture under bare soil. Differences in sensitivity to allelopathy reversed the impact of interspecific competition: A. capillaris facilitated D. glomerata under allelopathy, which made allelopathy of F. paniculata on D. glomerata inefficient. The complexity of overlapping mechanisms of plantplant interactions are highlighted by this semi-natural experiment. In subalpine grasslands, allelopathy not only limits the growth of neighboring plants, but it may also modify community assembly by affecting other plantplant interactions such as competition. This study contributes to explore the way allelopathy interacts with other plantplant interactions in natural systems.
20051127|To investigate variation in germination capability of wild Capsicum annuum seeds, the effects of light, fluctuating temperature, gibberellic acid (GA), soaking and sulfuric acid were analyzed in samples from 14 populations from northwest Mexico. Germination was inhibited by darkness in all populations studied. Darkness inhibition of germination was overcome by fluctuating temperature and GA, factors which also increased germination percentage but not germination rate. Soaking treatments did not significantly increase germination of C. annuum seeds, while sulfuric acid treatments had negative effects on the process. Populations showed high variation in germination response in all treatments, except for continuous darkness. Principal component analysis differentiated some populations with high germination percentage and slow germination rate. Such differences did not correlate with climatic variables from collection sites. Given the variation in germination patterns observed, some of these totally contrasting, we have to be cautious when considering the results of studies based on a single wild population.
41508676|Tree architecture has important consequences for tree performance as it determines resource capture, mechanical stability and dominance over competitors. We analyzed architectural relationships between stem and crown dimensions for 13 dominant Iberian canopy tree species belonging to the Pinaceae (six Pinus species) and Fagaceae (six Quercus species and Fagus sylvatica) and related these architectural traits to wood density, shade tolerance and climatic factors. Fagaceae had, compared with Pinaceae, denser wood, saplings with wider crowns and adults with larger maximal crown size but smaller maximal height. In combination, these traits enhance light acquisition and persistence in shaded environments; thus, contributing to their shade tolerance. Pinaceae species, in contrast, had low-density wood, allocate more resources to the formation of the central trunk rather than to branches and attained taller maximal heights, allowing them to grow rapidly in height and compete for light following disturbances; thus, contributing to their high light requirements. Wood density had a strong relationship with tree architecture, with dense-wooded species having smaller maximum height and wider crowns, probably because of cheaper expansion costs for producing biomechanically stable branches. Species from arid environments had shorter stems and shallower crowns for a given stem diameter, probably to reduce hydraulic path length and assure water transport. Wood density is an important correlate of variation in tree architecture between species and the two dominant families, with potentially large implications for their resource foraging strategies and successional dynamics.
40305722|Flower predation or florivory may alter the sexual expression, floral display, and reduce the reproductive success in plants. In this article, we estimated the effect of florivory on the reproductive success of the epiphytic bromeliad Werauhia gladioliflora during 2001-2003 in a premontane area in Costa Rica. Floral buds of W. gladioliflora are attacked by the wasp Eurytoma werauhia (Eurytomidae), which inhibits flower anthesis. Nearly, a quarter of the sampled population flowers were lost due to wasp infection and it accounted for nearly 70% of the reduction in fruit set. Flowers located on the inflorescence upper segment had a higher attack incidence. In the studied population, florivory has a major role in the reproductive success of W. gladioliflora. Florivory on epiphytic plants is scarcely reported in the literature, but evidence suggests that this phenomenon is more spread in the epiphytic community. Whether florivory in W. gladioliflora is a selective pressure influencing the reproductive success or a localized factor operating at the studied population is a subject requiring additional data.
20146444|The accuracy of direct (based on increment cores) and indirect (based on age-size relationships) methods of tree age estimation in Fagus sylvatica and Quercus robur was tested. This was done through increment cores and stem discs taken in an old-growth forest of Northern Spain. It was found that cross-dating was more precise than ring counting by up to 7 years per tree. Furthermore, cross-dating permitted the estimation of the age of trees with floating ring-width series, which were 7% of cored F. sylvatica and 40% of Q. robur ones. In partial cores with the arcs of the inner rings, the length of the missing radius was estimated with both a geometric method, based on the curvature of the arcs, and a new graphical method, based on the convergence of xylem rays at the pith. The graphical method was more accurate when the radial growth was eccentric, as happens in Q. robur, while both methods showed a similar accuracy for F. sylvatica, whose growth is relatively concentric. Empirical models of initial radial growth (IRG), built to estimate the number of missing rings, reduced the errors associated with other methods that assume constant growth rates. Age estimates obtained from the graphical method combined with the IRG models were within 4% of the actual age. This combination ensured age estimates with a mean accuracy of 8 years for 98% of the F. sylvatica trees, and 4 years for 89% of the Q. robur. In partial cores without the arcs of the inner rings, the length of the missing radius was estimated as the distance to the geometric centre of the tree. In that case, age estimates obtained by extrapolating the mean growth rate of the 20 innermost rings in the cores were from 10 to 20% of actual age, which coincided with results obtained in other tree species with this method. Finally, the age-diameter equations of the different cohorts produced better age estimates (from 8 to 14% of actual age) than equations of the population as a whole (from 20 to 40% of actual age). These results proved that the errors derived from doubtful assumptions, such as concentric radial growth, constant growth and recruitment rates, or the absence of anomalous rings, could be reduced by applying more realistic methods of tree age estimation.
40540334|Our study focuses on the ground vegetation dynamics and its dependence on microsite conditions in declined climax mountain Norway spruce forests during the recovery period (1995-2006) following upon the considerable decrease of SO 2 pollution. We showed that ground vegetation development shifted from prevailing mosses and vegetation-free sites covered with spruce litter to dominance by Avenella flexuosa during the earlier period of massive decline of the observed ecosystems. The expansion of Vaccinium myrtillus seems to occur mainly under the gradually defoliating tree crowns whereas larger canopy gaps and quickly deforested areas are more successfully colonized by grasses, especially Calamagrostis villosa. The gradual spruce stand decline, as well as the corresponding ground vegetation dynamics, proceeded until the end of the twentieth century. Afterwards, the ground vegetation responded to the interruption of trees dying and stopped its expansion on spruce litter microsites. Retreat of both dominant grasses accompanied by the remarkable increase in cover of mosses occurred.
41508689|Rainfall distribution and the soil moisture regime have been recognized to be the key drivers of the phenological rhythms in Sahelian woody plants, although different climate triggers have been assumed to be involved in determining the date of the onset of the phenophase. However, almost no comparisons have been made of the actual relative predictive power of these environmental factors. The aim of our study was to quantify the ability of several factors to predict phenophase occurrence in the dominant woody populations of northern Mali. Canopy leafing, flowering and fruiting were monitored from May 2005 to July 2007. Multiple logistic regressions were used to test the predictive power of cumulative rainfall, soil moisture, air temperature, air humidity and day length, with time lags of up to 2 months. Artificial variables derived from time lags observed in phenophases were included as predictors to account for possible autocorrelation and cross-correlation among phenophases. Surprisingly, a decrease in temperature associated with different time lags was most often found to be the strongest predictor of both leafing and reproductive phenophases. In Sahelian shrubs, morphological and physiological adaptations strongly contribute to the relative independence of their activity from water availability, leaf phenology being a way to adjust the plant water balance to current water availability and atmospheric water content. This study provides insight towards the development of a mechanistic understanding of phenological control in the Sahel, which is becoming increasingly important in the context of expected climate changes.
20146872|We determined the effectiveness of Ni as an elemental defence of Streptanthus polygaloides (Brassicaceae) against a crucifer specialist folivore, diamondback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella. An oviposition experiment used arrays of S. polygaloides grown on Ni-amended (high-Ni) soil interspersed with plants grown on unamended (low-Ni) soil and eggs were allowed to hatch and larvae fed freely among plants in the arrays. We also explored oviposition preference by allowing moths to oviposit on foil sheets coated with high- or low-Ni plant extract. This was followed by an experiment using low-Ni plant extract to which varying amounts of Ni had been added and an experiment using sheets coated with sinigrin (allyl glucosinolate) as an oviposition stimulant. Diamondback moths laid 2.5-fold more eggs on low-Ni plants than on high-Ni plants and larval feeding was greater on low-Ni plants. High-Ni plants grew twice as tall, produced more leaves, and produced almost 3.5-fold more flowers. Low-Ni plants contained more allyl glucosinolate than high-Ni plants and moths preferred to oviposit on foil sheets dipped in low-Ni plant extract. Moths showed no preference when Ni concentration of low-Ni extract was varied and over-whelmingly preferred sinigrin coated sheets. We conclude that Ni hyperaccumulation is an effective elemental defence against this herbivore, increasing plant fitness through a combination of toxicity to DBM larvae and decreased oviposition by adults.
40212935|The interactive effect of grazing and soil resources on plant species richness and coexistence has been predicted to vary across spatial scales. When resources are not limiting, grazing should reduce competitive effects and increase colonisation and richness at fine scales. However, at broad scales richness is predicted to decline due to loss of grazing intolerant species. We examined these hypotheses in grasslands of southern Australia that varied in resources and ungulate grazing intensity since farming commenced 170 years ago. Fine-scale species richness was slightly greater in more intensively grazed upper slope sites with high nutrients but low water supply compared to those that were moderately grazed, largely due to a greater abundance of exotic species. At broader scales, exotic species richness declined with increasing grazing intensity whether nutrients or water supply were low or high. Native species richness declined at all scales in response to increasing grazing intensity and greater resource supply. Grazing also reduced fine-scale heterogeneity in native species richness and although exotics were also characterised by greater heterogeneity at fine scales, grazing effects varied across scales. In these grasslands patterns of plant species richness did not match predictions at all scales and this is likely to be due to differing responses of native and exotic species and their relative abundance in the regional species pool. Over the past 170 years intolerant native species have been eliminated from areas that are continually and heavily grazed, whereas transient, light grazing increases richness of both exotics and natives. The results support the observation that the processes and scales at which they operate differ between coevolved ungulate--grassland systems and those in transition due to recent invasion of herbivores and associated plant species.
20146635|To assess the canopy seed bank structure of Pinus halepensis, we measured the level of serotiny and the seed bank size and density of trees in unburned stands and post-fire regenerated stands in Israel. We analysed the effects of tree size, tree density and fire history on the level of serotiny. The level of serotiny decreased with an increase in tree height. The high level of serotiny in short trees could be explained by selection to increase regeneration chances after burning at pre-mature age. Also, limitation of long-distance seed dispersal opportunities in short trees may favour high serotiny levels. The level of serotiny was higher in post-fire stands than in unburned stands, suggesting a fast selection for serotiny by fire. Unburned stands had a higher total stand seed density than post-fire regenerated stands, but the proportion of seeds in serotinous cones of the total stand seed density was higher in post-fire regenerated stands. The fact that P. halepensis bears simultaneously serotinous and non-serotinous cones reflects its dual strategy as both a post-fire obligate seeder, mainly from serotinous cones and an early coloniser during fire-free periods, mainly from non-serotinous cones. The relative investment in these strategies is dependent on fire history and varies with tree height. Furthermore, mature brown cones can contribute to post-fire regeneration in case of spring fires, and serotinous cones are known to open partially also in dry spell events. Thus, post-fire regeneration and invasion are strategies, which seem to complement each other.
41508847|Invasive plant species can have strong direct negative effects on native plants. Depending on the nature of interactions among competitors and consumers within a community, strong indirect interactions may either augment or offset direct effects. We used path analysis to estimate the relative importance of direct and indirect effects of Euphorbia esula, an unpalatable invasive plant, on Balsamorhiza sagittata, a native forb, through "shared defense" and by suppression of native competitors. Our results indicate that E. esula had strong direct negative effects on B. sagittata, but also that its net effect was reduced by 75% because of indirect positive effects. This reduction was because in equal parts of lessened competition from other native plants eliminated from E. esula stands and to lower levels of herbivory inside E. esula stands, apparently caused by indirect defense of B. sagittata by E. esula. To our knowledge, this is the first evidence that invaders may indirectly reduce herbivory on native plants, a phenomenon that may commonly occur with unpalatable invaders. Furthermore, our results highlight the potential complexity of interactions between native and invasive plants.
40212966|We review the evidence in support of the hypotheses that (i) lianas are now increasing in tropical forests and (ii) lianas are more abundant in the drier tropical forests. There is good evidence to support both hypotheses, including a new analysis of data from Ghana. In this dataset, there is a linear increase in the percentage of species that are lianas, from 30% at a mean annual rainfall of 2,000 mm year to 43% at a mean annual rainfall of 1,000 mm year. Both trends in lianas, one temporal, the other spatial, may be related to water availability, though parallel changes in canopy density (disturbance) may be contributory. It is also clear that most liana species in West Africa show restricted distribution along the rainfall gradient implying adaptation to different water availability. The reasons for the high sensitivity to rainfall may be that lianas have an especially effective water-transport system, with deep roots, large xylem vessels and a mechanism to avoid cavitation of water. As the climate of much of the tropics is becoming drier, we may expect increases in both liana abundance and their proportion in the flora over the future decades.
40540337|In order to produce seeds, animal-pollinated plants must flower synchronously with and be attractive to their pollinators while avoiding antagonists. Here, we explore temporal and inter-individual patterns in pollination and pre-dispersal seed predation of Dianthus sylvestris by Hadena moths, within and among three sex morphs. We scored plants that started flowering at different periods in 2001 and 2003 and found that fruit set decreased and predation rates increased over one season, and most of the other season, granting a female reproductive advantage to early flowering plants, though, we found no morphspecific temporal patterns. Female plants set more fruits, and more of their fruits escaped predation in one year, but this did not grant them a reproductive advantage since they produce fewer flowers per plant than the other morphs. Instead, mixed plants showed a clear female reproductive advantage. We also examined predation types by Hadena and seed production in attacked and intact fruits of individually marked flowers. Though female Hadena moths laid eggs preferentially into perfect flowers, flower sexes suffered similar predation by itinerant caterpillars. Attacked fruits contained fewer and lighter seeds than un-attacked ones. We conclude that pre-dispersal seed predation by Hadena may select on flowering onset of this sexually polymorphic species.
20050991|The modern scientific study of desiccation tolerance began in 1702 when Anthony von Leeuwenhoek discovered that rotifers could survive without water for months. By 1860, the controversy over whether organisms could dry up without dying had reached such a pitch that a special French commission was convened to adjudicate the dispute. In 2000, we know that a few groups of animals and a wide variety of plants can tolerate desiccation in the active, adult stages of their life cycles. Among plants, this includes many lichens and bryophytes, a few ferns, and a very few flowering plants, but no gymnosperms nor trees. Some desiccation-tolerant species can survive without water for over ten years, recover from desiccation to unmeasurably low water potentials, and, when plants are desiccated, endure temperature extremes from -272 to 100 C. Desiccation-tolerant plants occur on all continents but mainly in xeric habitats or microhabitats where the cover of desiccation-sensitive species is low. Two main puzzles arise from these patterns: What are the mechanisms by which plants tolerate desiccation? and Why are desiccation-tolerant plants not more ecologically widespread? Recent molecular and biochemical studies suggest that there are multiple mechanisms of tolerance, many of which involve protection from oxidants and from the loss of configuration of macromolecules during dehydration. Hypotheses to explain the restricted ecological range of desiccation-tolerance plants include inability to maintain a cumulative positive carbon balance during repeated cycles of wetting and drying and inherent trade offs between desiccation tolerance and growth rate.
20146562| We reviewed the literature to examine the vulnerability to water stress-induced embolism of Pinaceae relative to other conifers and to study the inter-relationships among the main traits involved in the hydraulic function within the Pinaceae. Results showed that Pinaceae (particularly the genus Pinus) are more vulnerable to xylem embolism, and show less variability in this character, than other conifers. Detailed data from 12 populations of Pinaceae (11 species) from three different areas (Piol and Sala 2000; Martnez-Vilalta and Piol 2002; Oliveras et al. 2003) was used to study the relationships among hydraulic properties of stems. These included: leaf-to-wood area ratio (
20146537|Soil crusts of rosemary scrubs in south-central Florida were examined for effects on seed germination of four herbs that are killed by fire and must recruit from seed: Eryngium cuneifolium (Apiaceae), Hypericum cumulicola (Hypericaceae), Polygonella basiramia (Polygonaceae), and Paronychia chartacea ssp. chartacea (Caryophyllaceae). Biological soil crusts in these sites are dominated by algae, cyanobacteria, fungi, and bacteria. Because crusts can change soil stability, water, and nutrients, they can affect seed germination. A series of green-house and field experiments were designed to first examine the effects of crusts in isolation and then to determine their role in the context of other environmental factors -- time since fire and distance to the dominant shrub in this system, Ceratiola ericoides. In the greenhouse experiment, germination in autoclaved crusts was dramatically reduced relative to germination in living crusts for all but P. basiramia. In four field experiments where crusts were left intact, disturbed (mechanically or by flaming), or completely removed, the effects of crusts were variable and species-specific, but were significant enough to impact aboveground population sizes. More germination was consistently observed in recently burned sites away from C. ericoides shrubs. Overall rates of germination were generally very low during this study, possibly as a result of seasonal droughts that could have reduced germination, increased seed dormancy, and/or decreased seed viability. The importance of water for germination was confirmed in an experiment with two watering regimes and three crust treatments designed to create a gradient of soil water availability. Germination was significantly greater in the high water treatment and unaffected by soil crust moisture. Dry years are not uncommon in scrub and the results of this study help us to understand how scrub herbs fare during drought and what role biological soil crusts play in germination.
40212868|Using data from 46 sites in southern Finland and ordination methods, we examined plant-environment relationships in boreal mesic semi-natural grasslands at two spatial scales (grain sizes), using plots of 0.25 ha and 1 x 1 m. We applied the variation partitioning approach to determine the pure fractions of environmental variable groups and their joint effects on plant species compositional variation in the studied grasslands. The variables related to land-use intensity and high nutrient level (especially phosphorus) had a major role in explaining the species composition at both scales, although soil heterogeneity and habitat characteristics also accounted for a notable amount of the species compositional variation at the 0.25 ha grain size. At the 1 x 1 m grain size, the majority of the species compositional variation was related to the "pure" spatial differences between the studied grasslands (i. e. the site identity (dummy 0/1) variable), whereas the impacts of within-site variation of local environmental factors were considerably smaller. High nutrient levels and variables related to low land-use intensity, e. g. litter accumulation, were also significantly correlated with floristic variation at the 1 x 1 m grain size. Rare and declining grassland species are associated with low-nutrient grassland sites and patches. The main recommendation for the management planning of boreal semi-natural grasslands is that the first restoration attempts should be targeted to areas where nutrient levels, particularly that of phosphorus, are relatively low. Soil properties and plant species composition can provide useful guidelines for defining the correct management procedures for different sites.
20051117|The low nutrient status of semi-natural grasslands, pastures and meadows, reflects a continuity of nutrient reduction by grazing and hay-making. It has been hypothesized that the nutrient depletion itself may reduce competition between individuals, and that mycorrhiza smooths out differences in nutrient uptake and competitive ability, so that competition for nutrients is even further reduced. This interaction between site history, nutrient status and mycorrhiza could thus be one explanation for a high species diversity usually found in semi-natural grasslands. To determine variation in colonization of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AM), three species (Achillea millefolium L., Ranunculus acris L. and Anthriscus sylvestris L.) were sampled at sites with different management history. All three species had mycorrhizal colonization. Correlations between species diversity patterns at different spatial scales (0.04m, 1m and total species number in the site) and mycorrhizal colonization were examined. In addition, soil samples were analysed concerning P, K, N and pH. When combining measures for the three species together there were significantly higher AM colonization at sites with a long continuous management regime, compared to sites with short or interrupted management regime. A significantly positive correlation was also found between plant species diversity and colonization of mycorrhiza. Soil nutrient status and root weight density did not differ among the sites with different management regime. This indicates that increasing nutrient status, or root competition, are not likely causal mechanisms behind a reduced AM colonization rate at sites with short or interrupted management regime. The correlation with species diversity is more likely a result of management continuity itself. A long continuous management is associated with an increasing likelihood of successful dispersal of plant species as well as of fungal species.
20146728|The objective of this study was to analyse quantitatively the spatial distribution of holly (Ilex aquifolium L.) seed rain and seed bank, and to detect the relationships between these consecutive processes. We measured seed dispersal by birds and fallen fruits, and also density and viability of seed bank in two Ilex populations in central Spain. Analysis was made distinguishing the following microhabitats: holly woodland, edge of holly woodland, open grassland 10 m and 100 m from the woodland, fleshy fruit shrubs, dry fruit shrubs, and adjacent non-holly woodland. Spatial distribution of dispersed and in-soil seeds was measured by the clumping index. Seed rain and seed bank under holly woodlands were significantly higher than in the other microhabitats. Forest edges and fleshy fruit shrubs were the next micro-habitats with the highest seed rain and seed bank density. Interannual and interlocality variations were not significant. The relative importance of the different dispersal methods varied between microhabitats, with a similar support of bird dispersed seeds and fallen fruits within the woodland and a greater influence of cattle dispersal in open areas. Seed spatial aggregation was significant in both dispersed seeds and soil seeds from holly woodlands and the edge of the forest. Aggregation under shrubs, grasslands and the adjacent forests evidenced a general random distribution of holly seeds (only in some cases clumping index was significant). Quantitative differences between seed rain and seed bank are important. Post-dispersal seed predation did not modify seed rain distribution, which was mirrored in the seed bank pattern. These two phases of holly regeneration had a heavy spatial influence, determined by the landscape structure and activity of the dispersal agents, that reflects a differential recruitment potential. Comparisons between both populations suggest that in the southern locality (Robregordo) holly has a weaker capacity to colonize open areas, and a stronger recruitment limitation due to propagule availability.
40305440|In boreal spruce forests that rarely experience extensive disturbances, fine-scale vegetation gaps are important for succession dynamics and species diversity. We examined the community implications of fine-scale gap disturbances by selective removal of vegetation layers in a pristine boreal spruce forest in Northern Finland. The aim was to investigate how the speed of recovery depends on the type of disturbance and the species growth form. We also wanted to know if there appeared changes in species composition after disturbance. Five different treatments were applied in the study: Control, removal of the ground layer (bryophytes and lichens), removal of the understorey layer (dwarf shrubs, herbs and graminoids), removal of both the ground and understorey layers, and complete removal of the vegetation and humus layers above the mineral soil. The vegetation recovery was monitored in terms of cover and species numbers over a 5-year period. Understorey layer cover, composed mainly of clonal dwarf shrubs, recovered completely in 4 years in treatments where the humus layer remained intact, whereas ground layer cover did not reach the control level in plots from where bryophytes and lichens were removed. Recovery was faster in terms of species number than species cover. Bryophytes, graminoids and dominant dwarf shrubs appeared in all disturbed plots quickly after disturbance. Seedlings of trees appeared exclusively in disturbed plots. Graminoids dominated after the removal of humus layer. The results indicate that the regeneration of forest floor after small gap disturbance occurs mainly by re-establishment of the dominant species. Although destruction of the humus layer leaves a long-lasting scar to the forest floor, exposing of mineral soil may enhance the sexual reproduction of dominant species and the colonization of weaker competitors.
40212927|Plastic adjustments in response to P availability were investigated for a freshwater, submerged plant, Ranunculus peltatus Schrank at various stages in its life cycle. A series of three, nine-day- experiments was performed under controlled conditions in April, June and August. R. peltatus plasticity was tested in response to three phosphorus water concentrations ${\rm{(50,}}\,{\rm{100,}}\,{\rm{300}}\,{\rm{\mu g/1}}\,{\rm{PO}}_{\rm{4}}^{{\rm{3 - }}} {\rm{)}}$ and was evaluated using eight morphological and ecophysiological traits related to lant nutrient uptake and use. Some plastic adjustments in R. peltatus were found to be significant mostly for the April experiment. R. peltatus displayed higher nutrient uptake and lower NUE when P availability was high. It tended also to adapt its P uptake rate, which decreased during the experiment. When P availability was low, reverse results were found in the four ecophysiological traits. No morphological plastic adjustments in response to P enrichment were identified in R. peltatus concerning branching or creation of roots. However, the production of sexual organs tended to be enhanced by low P concentrations in the water. Ecophysiological rather than morphological adjustments were highlighted in R. peltatus with respect to P availability. Plasticity was found to depend strongly on the particular phenological stage. These results may constitute valuable information concerning the evaluation and ecological significance of plasticity in freshwater plants
20146701| One of the important factors determining success in plant competition is the ability of a plant to extend laminae in order to capture resources. To do this in mixed swards the laminae of one plant must first grow into the volume that contains laminae of another. The ability of laminae to overcome the resistance presented by a neighbour, and the ability to resist this ingress, was examined for the grasses Agrostis capillaris, Festuca rubra, Holcus lanatus, Lolium perenne and Poa trivialis that were subject to 3 cm and 6 cm cutting treatments. These abilities were inferred from the behaviour of 'indicator' leaves as they were pushed into monoculture target patches of each species. The 3 cm treatment resisted ingress significantly more than the 6 cm. Species patches differed significantly both in their ability to resist the ingress by the indicator species and in the ability of different indicator species to penetrate the target swards. These effects were still present when differences in leaf density (leaves cm) had been taken into account. The results suggest that grasses can vary in the physical resistance that they present to the leaves of an invading neighbour. 
40305660|We investigated how shoot and root allocation in plants responds to increasing levels of competitive stress at different levels of soil fertility. In addition, we analyzed whether different responses were due to adaptive plasticity or should be attributed to ontogenetic drift. Plantago lanceolata plants were grown during 18 weeks at five plant densities and four nutrient supply levels in pots in the greenhouse. Thereafter root and shoot biomass was measured. There were clear negative effects of increasing plant densities on plant weights revealing strong intraspecific competition. At the lower N-treatments, the proportional allocation to root mass increased with increasing competitive stress, indicating the important role of belowground competition. At the higher N-supply rate, the relationship between competitive stress and shoot to root ratio was neutral. These responses could not be attributed to ontogenetic drift, but could only be explained by assuming adaptive plasticity. It was concluded that at lower N-supplies belowground competition dominates and leads to increased allocation to roots, while at the higher N-supply competition for soil resources and light had balanced impacts on shoot and root allocation. An alternative hypothesis explaining the observed pattern is that light competition has far less pronounced impacts on root-shoot allocation than nutrient deprival.
20050608|Arnica montana and Cirsium dissectum, typical of species-rich heathlands and acidic grasslands, have declined rapidly in The Netherlands in recent years. Field surveys suggest that the decline is caused by soil acidification as a result of enhanced atmospheric N and S deposition. Therefore, the survival, growth and development of these species were studied in a water culture experiment, using nutrient solutions which differed both in mineral nitrogen form and in ammonium concentration. For comparison, the performance of a third, acid tolerant species, Calluna vulgaris, was studied. The results showed that both Arnica and Cirsium performed better using nitrate than when using ammonium as a sole nitrogen source, whereas ammonium toxicity became apparent when ammonium concentrations were raised above 100 M. Ammonium toxicity was expressed by an increase in mortality of Arnica plants with increasing ammonium concentrations and by a reduction of biomass in Arnica and Cirsium. Furthermore, cation concentrations in both roots and shoots decreased when ammonium was supplied as a nitrogen source. In contrast, Calluna showed optimal development when using ammonium as a sole nitrogen source. In this species, only root biomass was negatively affected by high ammonium concentrations. The ecological implications of these preferences are discussed in relation to soil acidification.
41508698|Global surface temperature has increased markedly over the last 100 years. This increase has a variety of implications for human societies, and for ecological systems. One of the most obvious ways ecosystems are affected by global climate change is through alteration of organisms' developmental timing (phenology). We used annual botanical surveys that documented the first flowering for an array of species from 1976 to 2003 to examine the potential implications of climate change for plant development. The overall trend for these species was a progressively earlier flowering time. The two earliest flowering taxa (Galanthus and Crocus) also exhibited the strongest shift in first flowering. We detected a significant trend in climate suggesting higher temperatures in winter and spring over the sampling interval and found a significant relationship between warming temperatures and first flowering time for some species. Although 60% of the species in our study flowered earlier over the sampling interval, the remaining species exhibited no statistically detectable change. This variation in response is ostensibly associated with among-species variation in the role of climate cues in plant development. Future work is needed to isolate specific climate cues, and to link plant phenology to the physiological processes that trigger plant development.
20146750|Spatial pattern of a biotic population may change over time as its component individuals grow or die out, but whether this is the case for desert annual plants is largely unknown. Here we examined seasonal changes in spatial patterns of two annuals, Eriogonum abertianum and Haplopappus gracilis, in initial (winter) and final (summer) densities. The density was measured as the number of individuals from 384 permanent quadrats (each 0.5 m  0.5 m) in the Chihuahuan Desert near Portal, Arizona, USA. We used three probability distributions (binomial, Poisson, and negative binomial or NB) that represent three basic spatial patterns (regular, random, and clumped) to fit the observed frequency distributions of densities of the two annuals. Both species showed clear clumped patterns as characterized by the NB and had similar inverse J-shaped frequency distribution curves in two density categories. Also, both species displayed a reduced degree of aggregation from winter to summer after the spring drought (massive die-off), as indicated by the increased k-parameter of the NB and decreased values of another NB parameter p, variance/mean ratio, Lloyd's Index of Patchiness, and David and Moore's Index of Clumping. Further, we hypothesized that while the NB (i.e., Poisson-logarithmic) well fits the distribution of individuals per quadrat, its components, the Poisson and logarithmic, may describe the distributions of clumps per quadrat and of individuals per clump, respectively. We thus obtained the means and variances for (1) individuals per quadrat, (2) clumps per quadrat, and (3) individuals per clump. The results showed that the decrease of the density from winter to summer for each plant resulted from the decrease of individuals per clump, rather than from the decrease of clumps per quadrat. The great similarities between the two annuals indicate that our observed temporal changes in spatial patterns may be common among desert annual plants.
20146360| The response of forest floor vegetation and regeneration of major tree species to deer exclusion in a riparian forest were studied for 3 years with the interactive effects of natural disturbances. At the start of this study, deer density had quickly increased to a fairly high level (29-31 individuals km) during the last decade and had severely reduced the amount of forest floor vegetation in the study area. Dwarf bamboos, which were dominant before, had almost diminished from the forest floor. During the study period, aboveground biomass increased steadily but species diversity did not change much in the exclosures. Outside the exclosures, the seedlings of all tree species were damaged greatly by deer browsing, especially the taller ones. Deer browsing had little effect on the emergence of tree seedlings, but deer trampling might have accelerated emergence indirectly by disturbing the soil surface for some species. Differences in plant responses were also observed for deer browsing and the presence of dwarf bamboo that strongly inhibits the recruitment of tree seedlings. The nine major species were classified into three groups according to the response of seedlings to deer browsing and disturbance. Group 1 consists of the species whose seedling survival is affected by browsing, but seldom by disturbances (Phellodendron amurense, Kalopanax pictus, Quercus crispula and Malus toringo). Groups 2 and 3 consist of species adapted to tree-fall disturbance (Betula spp.) and riparian disturbance (Alnus hirsuta var. sibirica, Ulmus davidiana var. japonica, Populus maximowiczii and Salix sachalinensis), respectively, and seedling survival of these two groups is principally affected by light conditions. The effect of deer browsing on seedling survival and growth was greater for Group 2 than for Group 3. 
20051159|Ants are often attracted to diaspores not adapted for dispersal by ants. These diaspores may occasionally benefit from this interaction. We selected six nonmyrmecochorous plant species (Virola oleifera, Eugenia stictosepala, Cabralea canjerana, Citharexylum myrianthum, Alchornea glandulosa and Hyeronima alchorneoides) whose diaspores differ in size and lipid content, and investigated how these features affect the outcome of ant-diaspore interactions on the floor of a lowland Atlantic forest of Southeast Brazil. A total of 23 ant species were seen interacting with diaspores on the forest floor. Ants were generally rapid at discovering and cleaning the diaspore pulp or aril. Recruitment rate and ant attendance were higher for lipid-rich diaspores than for lipid-poor ones. Removal rate and displacement distance were higher for small diaspores. The large ponerine ant Pachycondyla striata, one of the most frequent attendants to lipid-rich arillate diaspores, transported the latter into their nests and discarded clean intact seeds on refuse piles outside the nest. Germination tests with cleaned and uncleaned diaspores revealed that the removal of pulp or aril may increase germination success in Virola oleifera, Cabralea canjerana, Citharexylum myrianthum and Alchornea glandulosa. Gas chromatography analyses revealed a close similarity in the fatty acid composition of the arils of the lipid-rich diaspores and the elaiosome of a typical myrmecochorous seed (Ricinus communis), corroborating the suggestion that some arils and elaiosomes are chemically similar. Although ant-derived benefits to diaspores -- secondary dispersal and/or increased germination -- varied among the six plant species studied, the results enhanced the role of ant-diaspore interactions in the post-dispersal fates of nonmyrmecochorous seeds in tropical forests. The size and the lipid-content of the diaspores were shown to be major determinants of the outcome of such interactions.
20146972|North American coastal sandplain heathlands are unique in species composition and vegetation, but the extent to which edaphic factors influence the structure of these communities is currently debated. It was hypothesized that salt spray and edaphic factors maintain the dwarf stature and community composition of heathlands by limiting plant growth and excluding competitively dominant woody species close to the ocean. Field surveys were carried out to investigate the spatial patterns of salt spray accumulation, soil salt and soil moisture. High salt spray correlated significantly with increased leaf necrosis and water stress in Myrica pensylvanica and with decreased plant height. Plant community composition changed across a salt spray and soil gradient, as well. Distinctive sub-communities were identified that separated according to soil salt and soil moisture but salt spray was the main factor affecting sites occupied only by heathland vegetation. Results from this study suggest that salt spray suppresses the growth of heathland plants in close proximity to the ocean, and therefore maintains the low stature in these dwarf shrublands. This research also demonstrates that the physical environment influences the community structure in heathlands, particularly by limiting tree species from growing in high salt spray, low water availability sites.
40212905|The present study investigated stand dynamics during 10-year period in a conifer/broadleaved mixed forest in Hokkaido, northern Japan, focusing on spatially dependent recruitment, mortality and growth of two growth-form groups, deciduous broadleaved species and the dominant evergreen conifer Abies sachalinensis. The stand-level basal area was maintained over the 10-year period, while a compositional equilibrium at the individual species level was not confirmed. Univariate and bivariate spatial analyses revealed clustering of many of the constituent species. The absence of single-species patches suggested an ambiguous mosaic formed by cooccurrence of Abies and broadleaved trees. The trend towards an aggregated distribution of Abies and broadleaved trees was caused by spatially dependent recruitment rather than mortality. New recruits of broadleaved species were spatially associated with surviving broadleaved trees, while this was not the case for Abies. The degree of competitive effects on growth was not consistent over the 10-year period. Abies showed between-groups competition, but not within-group competition. In contrast, we found asymmetric competitions between the broadleaved trees. Our results suggest that Abies is not sufficiently competitively dominant to exclude broadleaved trees, and that the co-occurrence of the two growthform groups might be maintained.
20146369|Two blocks, each consisting of twelve 0.25 m permanent plots, were established in a community dominated by desert annuals in an area of Kuwait protected from grazing, and community attributes were investigated over three growth seasons. A linear relationship was found between estimated desert annual cover and biomass production. Species frequency was assessed by the number of 100 cm subplots occupied by a species in a block ("block incidence"). Over the three seasons, vegetation features varied considerably. The first season (spring 1997) was characterised by very sparse vegetation cover, low vegetation block incidence (sum of individual block incidences of each species present in a block) and low species richness. The second season (spring 1998) had high vegetation cover, relatively low vegetation block incidence, but high species richness. In the third season (spring 2000), vegetation cover was very sparse (as in 1997), but both blocks had the highest vegetation block incidence of the three years and species richness was moderately high, although individual plants were very small. The growth period was much shorter in the very productive and species-rich 1998 season than in 2000. Fluctuations in biomass and species incidence coincided with pronounced variation in key meteorological variables, in particular the onset of the first rains, the amount of rainfall during the growing season and its temporal distribution. Species composition, however, appears mainly to be determined by the amount and possibly the timing of the first rainfalls of the season to trigger germination. There was little evidence to suggest that particularly favourable or unfavourable microsites existed in plots for more than one vegetation period, either for individual species or for diversity in general. Despite substantial between-season fluctuations in incidence, the relative abundances of the more frequent species to each other remained broadly similar over the three seasons, with Plantago boissieri being the predominant species and accounting for the largest proportion of biomass.
20146620|To measure the effects of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) herbivory on seeds, seedlings, and young saplings of Quercus buckleyi on the eastern Edwards Plateau of central Texas, USA, experimental fenced deer exclosures were constructed. Acorns or small Q. buckleyi transplants were placed in each exclosure and in each unfenced control plot. Deer did not significantly affect acorn survival and germination, but did significantly reduce transplant survival and growth rates. The results support the hypothesis that deer are responsible for the failure of recruitment into adult size classes in Q. buckleyi populations in this region. Without adult recruitment of Q. buckleyi, the species composition and possibly even the physiognomy of woodlands on the eastern Edwards Plateau will change markedly. The results of this experiment also indicate that, although juniper (Juniperus ashei) and Q. buckleyi presumably compete for water, light, and nutrients, in the presence of deer junipers can have a positive effect on seedlings and saplings of Q. buckleyi, a case of facilitation. In the presence of deer the transplants increased in height significantly more slowly away from juniper saplings than they did beneath juniper saplings, probably due to the physical protection from browsing that junipers provided to the transplants.
23500329|Probably due to its phytogeographic position, the grasslands in the North Adriatic Karst are among the richest grasslands in the world and harbour the highest small-scale density of plant species found in terrestrial habitats. Different moisture and soil conditions determine distinct vegetation types, such as meadows, composed by mesophyllous plants and on mesic conditions, and semi-natural pastures, composed by sclerophyllous plants and on oligotrophic conditions. Even though plants in these two vegetation types differ in some of their attributes, their functional and phylogenetic relationships remain to be tested. We used a dataset comprising 180 species, in which 48 plots in the meadows and 52 plots in the pastures had been sampled, and tested the phylogenetic and functional relationships between the two vegetation types. The pastures contained more original species, but both the pastures and the meadows are expected to be important to increase biodiversity at landscape level. Different community assembly processes occurred in the two vegetation types, with limiting similarity leading to functional overdispersion in the meadows and environmental filtering leading to functional clustering in the pastures. Overall, traits were convergent, leading to a clustered phylogenetic structure in the meadows, probably due to pair-wise competition, and an overdispersed phylogenetic structure in the pastures, where species from different clades were filtered by the oligotrophic conditions. Transhumance may have contributed to the random pattern of trait diversity we found across the nodes of the phylogenetic tree.
20146477| The sediments of a southern Australian wetland complex were investigated to determine the germinable seed bank. The number of seeds ranged from 22,000 to 78,000 m. Non-metric multi dimensional scaling (NMS) ordination based upon species composition separated the four basins but each contained the representatives of the major functional groups: terrestrial, amphibious and submerged. To test the influence of water regime on the final floristic composition derived from these seed banks, sediments were positioned at three elevations (0, 30 and 80 cm) and subjected to three hydrologic regimes (static water level, and draw down rates of 2.5 and 7 cm week). Species compositions were analysed after 98 days via ordination. Despite significant differences in the initial seed bank composition the final floristic compositions were correlated with the water regime and independent of the initial seed bank composition. Species groups were segregated on a basis of whether sediments were continuously exposed to the atmosphere, the rate of draw down and the water depth. Moist sediments were dominated by species belonging to all the main functional groups. Sediments subject to rapid drying were dominated by terrestrial species whereas sediments that were flooded for the majority of the time were dominated by submerged species. 
23362492|Allelopathy is often treated as an innate characteristic of a species rather than a phenotypically plastic trait that can vary with environmental conditions. Lianas are a highly competitive, phenotypically plastic life form that typically occur in both shaded and unshaded environments. As such, we hypothesized that temperate lianas may conditionally change allocation to allelopathic chemicals in response to light availability though the expected direction of change is unclear. Shading may reduce resource availability and therefore reduce allocation to allelochemicals, induce allelopathy as a competitive mechanism, or may not be related to allelopathy. To test the conditionality of allelopathy, sun and shade leaves of five common liana species (Toxicodendron radicans, Parthenocissus quinquefolia, Celastrus orbiculatus, Lonicera japonica, and Vitis vulpina) were collected from a young deciduous forest in New Jersey, USA, and tested with laboratory bioassays to detect allelopathic potential. All liana species showed allelopathic potential, and three species exhibited induction of increased allelopathic potential in shaded environments. The two species that were not shade induced are late successional lianas that persist for long periods in forest canopies. In contrast, the inducible lianas were early successional species that typically decline with canopy closure. This research indicates that lianas have the potential to be allelopathic and allelopathic potential conditionally responds to shading only for species that would normally be excluded from the forest canopy. As early successional lianas are present throughout forest regeneration in a range of light environments, allelopathic plasticity may increase their success by differentially allocating resources based on environmental conditions.
20146981| The palm (Arecaceae) community on low paleo-riverine terraces (terrace forest) in the north-western Amazon, is described, and we assessed the importance of environmental differences and geographic distance as drivers of its local (25 m grain and 0-500 m extent) and regional scale (500 m grain and 0.3-143 km extent) beta diversity using ordination, multiple regressions on distance matrices and Indicator Species Analysis. A total of 15,869 individuals and 37 species of palm were sampled in 10 terrace forest transects, while 3758 individuals and 21 species were sampled in two adjacent floodplain forest transects for comparison. The terrace and floodplain forest were clearly different in their diversity and floristic composition. The relative importance of geographical distance and environmental difference as controls of terrace forest beta diversity was scale dependent, with environmental differences, notably in soil moisture, dominating at local scales and geographical distance dominating at regional scales. In fact, none of the environmental factors had a significant influence on regional-scale beta diversity. The geographical distance decay in floristic similarity was markedly steeper at local scale (- 0.25 km) than at regional scale (- 0.003 km). Such a nonlinear decay is expected if simple dispersal limitation controls beta diversity. However, the absent flattening of the distance decay at the largest distances and the sub-Andean affinities of the westernmost palm communities suggest that large-scale biogeographical processes also contribute to the regional-scale beta diversity. Hereby our results indicate that not only local environment, but also dispersal limitation and biogeographical history can be important controls of the diversity and composition of local plant communities. 
23362417|Growth and reproduction of spring ephemerals inhabiting deciduous forests progress simultaneously during a short period from snowmelt to canopy closure. To clarify the mechanism to mitigate the cost of reproduction, contributions of foliar and non-foliar photosynthetic products to seed production were examined in a spring ephemeral Gagea lutea. Leaf growth, foliar and non-foliar photosynthetic activities, and total assimilated products were compared among reproductive-intact, floral bud-removal, and vegetative plants. Translocation of current photosynthetic products to individual organs was quantified by 13 CO 2 -trace experiment. Bulb growth was compared between hand-pollination and floral bud-removal treatments. Finally, seed set was compared between intact, leaf-clipping, and bract-clipping treatments. Fruit-forming plants retained leaves longer than vegetative and floral bud-removal plants, but the assimilative contribution of extended leaf longevity was negligible. Carbon supply by bract photosynthesis was large enough for fruit development, while carbon supply by fruit photosynthesis was offset by the high respiration loss. Foliar photosynthetic products were largely transported to bulbs, while translocation to reproductive functions was negligible. Because the floral bud-removal increased the bulb growth, lack of reproduction could lead to more storage. The leaf-clipping had no effect on seed production, while the bract-clipping significantly reduced the seed production. Therefore, current photosynthesis of leafy bracts might be a major carbon source for fruit development. This self-compensative mechanism of reproductive structure enables the continuous reproductive activity in this species.
20051150|Vegetation in grasslands with well-developed long-lasting ant-hills in the Slovensk Rudohorie Mts., Slovakia, was studied in relation to (i) position on the mound, (ii) ant species forming the mound, and (iii) history of the mound. Permanent plot recordings of mound size and dominant ant species started fifteen years prior the study began provided information on the history of individual mounds. The mound vegetation bears a striking similarity to vegetation in similar habitats across a large part of Europe due to presence of species such as Agrostis capillaris, Dianthus deltoides, Polytrichum commune agg., Thymus pulegioides, and Veronica officinalis. Out of the three major ant species-groups present at the site (Lasius flavus, Tetramorium caespitum and Formica spp.), L. flavus had the most pronounced and the most lasting effect on the mound vegetation. The dominance of the plant species listed above increased with the time span over which the mound was inhabited by L. flavus. The effects of other species on vegetation composition, though discernible from short-term observation, disappeared over several years. The mounds proper did not differ from the undisturbed grassland in the proportion of myrmecochorous plants or plants with specific seed size or dormancy type. However, there was a highly significant concentration of myrmecochorous plants in the grassland patches immediately neighbouring the mounds; this is likely to be due to seeds deposited there by the workers from the nest after the elaiosomes had been consumed. The mound vegetation was composed mainly of species with long stolons or rhizomes; however, there was no significant difference in formation type or length of stolons/rhizomes between mounds and the rest of the grassland or among mounds formed by different ant species.
40305533|Seedling emergence from scarified seeds and mortality of different seedling cohorts of five African savanna woody species (Acacia polyacantha, A. sieberana, Bauhinia thonningii, Dichrostachys cinerea and Ziziphus abyssinica) were studied under field conditions at a site in central Zambia. The study was conducted over a 4-year period, from 2003 to 2007. The objectives of the study were to determine climate factors that significantly influence seedling emergence rate and mortality in order to assess likely responses of the studied species to a warmer climate. Mean seedling emergence rate was 12% in D. cinerea and Z. abyssinica, 17% in B. thonningii, 47% in A. poyacantha and 62% in A. sieberana. Climate factors did not significantly affect seedling emergence in A. sieberana while temperature significantly influenced seedling emergence rate in the other species. Under a 1 warmer climate, seedling emergence rate was predicted to decline in A. polyacantha, B. thonningii and Z abysssinica but is likely to increase slightly in D. cinerea. Time of seedling emergence during the wet season did not appear to affect seedling survival. Temperature also significantly influenced seedling mortality in all the studied species such that under a warmer climate, mortality was predicted to increase in A. sieberana and D. cinerea but decrease in A. polyacantha, B. thonningii and Z. abyssinica. As the studied species exhibited differential optimum temperature conditions for seedling emergence and seedling survival, they are likely to respond to climate warming in different but predictable ways. The results of the study are useful to forest management and development of climate change adaptation strategies in southern Africa.
40802524|Fuel management techniques are commonly used in shrublands to reduce wildfire risk. However, more information about the ecological effects of these treatments is needed by managers and ecologists. In an effort to address this need, we performed a replicated (4 replicates per treatment) 48-ha experiment in northern California chaparral dominated by Adenostoma fasciculatum to determine the effects of two fuel reduction types (prescribed fire and mastication) and three different seasons of treatment (fall, winter, and spring) on shrub cover, height, and seedling density. Exclosures (2.5 m each) were also used to assess herbivory effects. By the third posttreatment year, prescribed fire treatments had higher shrub cover (71  2%) than mastication (43  4%). There was no treatment effect on shrub height, species richness, or composition. Seedling density was initially higher in prescribed fire treatments (31  4 seedlings m) than mastication (3  0 seedlings m); however, prescribed fire treatments experienced substantial mortality, especially spring burning, resulting in lower densities 3 years after treatments (18  0 seedlings m after fall and winter fire compared to 2  0 seedlings m after spring fire). A. fasciculatum remained the dominant shrub species after the treatments, and Ceanothus cuneatus recruitment was higher in fall burning. Deer herbivory only affected shrub height, especially in masticated units, resulting in heights of 55  2 cm in unexclosed areas compared to 66  4 cm inside exclosures by the third post-treatment year. Overall, our findings suggest that fuel treatments play an important role in shrubland community dynamics, at least in the short-term, with implications for re-treatment frequency, community structure, and wildlife habitat.
40926892|Seeds of Delphinium fissum subsp. sordidum are physiologically dormant at maturity, with underdeveloped embryos; thus they have morphophysiological dormancy (MPD). The aims of this study were to determine the requirements for embryo growth, dormancy break and germination, to characterise the type of seed dormancy and to evaluate the effects of light, seed age, pollination mechanism, and inter-annual and inter-population variability on germinative ability. After 3 months of incubation at 5C (cold stratification) in darkness conditions, the mean embryo length increased from 5.6 to 2.07 mm, with 76% of seeds germinating. Conversely, embryos of seeds incubated during 3 months at 20/7 or 28/14C hardly grew and no germination was recorded. Since cold stratification was the only requirement for the loss of MPD, and both dry storage in laboratory conditions and warm stratification prior to cold stratification shortened the cold stratification period required for germination, it could be concluded that D. fissum subsp. sordidum seeds have intermediate complex MPD. Cold stratification and incubation in darkness conditions promoted higher germination percentages than those in light. In addition, germinative ability increased with seed age up to 8 months (reaching 96% at 5C in darkness), showed a pronounced inter-annual and inter-population variability, as well as a significant decrease in seeds coming from pollination by geitonogamy. High temperatures (25/10 or 28/14C) induced seeds to secondary dormancy, so seedling emergence in the greenhouse was restricted to February-March. The requirements for dormancy break and germination reflect an adaptation to trigger germination in late winter. This study is the first one to document a gradual increase in germination percentage with seed age for plant species with intermediate complex MPD.
20146568|The temporal dynamics of Pinus halepensis seedling emergence, density and survival were studied in detail during the first postfire year, in five Aleppo pine forests of Attica (Stamata, Villia, Avlona, Kapandriti and Ag. Stefanos; burned in June 1990, July 1990, September 1991, September 1992 and July 1993, respectively). The timing of emergence and establishment of Aleppo pine seedlings was found to be correlated with the prevailing meteorological conditions -- mainly rainfall and to a lesser degree temperature. In most cases, seed germination and seedling emergence took place in a "single massive wave" (resembling a right-skewed normal distribution), shortly after the onset of the first postfire rainy season, (Stamata, Villia and Avlona; 80-90% of the total cohort emerged during November-December). However, variations in the timing and spread of this pattern were observed in Agios Stefanos and Kapandriti. In the former, there was a considerable delay of seedling emergence (80% by the end of February); in the latter, a bimodal pattern was found (peaks in December-February and March-April). The dynamics of pine seedling mortality (which amounted to a yearly 23-50% of the total cohort) showed two major, discrete peaks of almost equal importance during the first postfire year: at the initial seedling establishment phase (in the winter) and during the dry summer.
23500337|Seedling recruitment allows genetic recombination and production of dispersal units. Both the climate experienced by the source populations (seed source effect) and the weather experienced by the seeds during germination and seedling emergence (recruitment site effects) are important for seedling recruitment. Separating these effects in the field is essential to assess potential climate change impacts on plant population. We combine experimental seed transplant and gradient analyses to separate the effects of seed source and recruitment site temperature and precipitation for the seedling emergence of two alpine/lowland species pairs (Viola biflora/Viola palustris, Veronica alpina/Veronica officinalis). Combining these approaches allows us to compare local responses versus responses along environmental gradients, but also tests for local adaptation and/or preconditioning effects (adaptive seedling emergence responses). Veronica officinalis emergence increased with increasing seed source temperature in both the experimental and the gradient approaches, and showed adaptive seedling emergence. Viola biflora, Viola palustris and Veronica alpina emergence decreased with recruitment site temperature in both approaches. Both Violas emergences increased with recruitment site precipitation, in both approaches for the alpine violet, and in the gradient approach for lowland one. Emergence was primarily affected by the environment of the recruitment site, whereas seed source climate and adaptive seedling emergence impacted recruitment in only one of our species. The responses to recruitment site temperatures were negative, whereas the response to seed source temperature was positive. Ignoring the distinctions between these different mechanisms can lead to erroneous conclusions regarding potential climate change impacts on plant recruitment.
41412365|Whilst consumption by rodents is often invoked as a major mortality factor for large-seed species of trees, its relative importance compared with other mortality factors is poorly known. We investigated experimentally the fate of post-dispersal seeds of Quercus glauca under different understorey environments (areas covered by (i) a pteridophyte Pyrrosia lingua, (ii) a ground-vine, Trachelospermum asiaticum and (iii) no vegetation) from the germination stage to seedling emergence and establishment stages in humid maritime woodland. We employed a pair of caged and uncaged treatments to evaluate the impact of seed removal/predation by rodents, which allowed us to separate seed removal/predation mortality from mortality due to other factors. Effects by rodents were greater in the no-understorey habitat than in the Pyrrosia and Trachelospermum habitats at early stages of development, whilst non-rodent-associated mortality was relatively more important towards the seedling establishment stages in all habitats. In the absence of predation/removal by rodents (i. e. the caged treatment), more seedlings survived in the no-understorey habitat whilst seedlings were significantly taller in the Pyrrosia habitat. In contrast, no significant difference was observed in either seed/seedling survivorship or seedling height amongst habitats where seeds/seedlings were exposed to rodent predation/removal. Overall, this study in a humid maritime woodland has revealed the temporally variable influence of mortality factors and the context-dependent survival of oak seeds/seedlings, making a contrast to observations in drier woodlands; in the no-understorey environment predation/removal effect was heavier but later survivorship was higher, whilst in vegetated environments, predation/removal was reduced but survivorship was not high.
23362470|Phenotypic plasticity in species with heteromorphic diaspores is considered to be a plastic bethedging strategy in environmentally fluctuating habitats. The primary aim of this study was to determine the influence of level of abiotic (soil moisture and nutrient availability) and biotic (pure and mixed density) factors on the long-glochid (LN; high dispersal, low dormancy)/short-glochid (SN; low dispersal, high dormancy) nutlet ratio and on nutlet combination of the fruit-dimorphic cold desert winter annual/spring ephemeral Lappula duplicicarpa derived from different nutlet morphs. We hypothesized that stress would decrease the LN: SN ratio. All levels of the four treatments resulted in significant variation in the LN: SN ratio and in the proportion of each nutlet combination. Reproductive biomass varied less than plant mass in plants from both morphs. In favorable environments, the LN: SN ratio and number of SN3LN and 4LN combinations were relatively high, while in unfavorable environments they were relatively low, thus supporting our hypothesis. Relative allocation to reproductive biomass was significantly negatively correlated with allocation to vegetative biomass. The downward shift that occurred in the LN: SN diaspore ratio in response to stressful growth conditions in Lappula duplicicarpa is assumed to be a bet-hedging strategy.
20050510|Micropatterns induced by sheep grazing, were studied in three consecutive years in a Festuca rubra-dominated salt marsh in a grazing trial with five different stocking rates (0, 1.5, 3, 4.5 and 10 sheep
20146402|Mediterranean woody plants exhibit a wide phenological diversity which cannot be explained just on the basis of climatic constraints. We assessed the role of relative growth rate (RGR), life form, seed and fruit mass as potential constraints of plant phenology. In a comparison of traits of 22 Mediterranean woody plant species, the duration of the primary shoot growing period decreased from climbers to shrubs and to trees. A hypothesised negative association between RGR and primary shoot growth duration did not emerge in our species set. The mechanism underlying phenological differences between plant life forms might relate to differences in the proportion of respiring to photosynthetic tissues, which decreases from climbers to trees. It is suggested that the degree of shoot preformation within the bud correlates with primary shoot growth duration, but not with RGR. Development of big fruits and seeds competes for carbon with vegetative growth. Indeed, species with bigger seeds and fruits exhibited shorter primary shoot growing periods, which tended to overlap with flower bud formation and flowering periods. We suggest that duration of primary shoot growth allow to short out the species between two extreme growth strategies: The conservative one would be characterised by a concentration of the primary shoot growth into a short period, free of frosts and droughts, and by a diversion of part of the current resources to assure next year's growth. The opportunistic strategy, on the other extreme, would be defined by the allocation of resources to current growth whenever they are available, achieving longer growing periods at the expense of higher risk of tissue damage. These strategies should have been selected for in environments of predictable and unpredictable resource availability, respectively.
20050621|In the Turku Archipelago of SW Finland the traditional animal husbandry dramatically decreased in 1950s after which the unused semi-natural pastures and meadows began to develop into less species rich shrub and tree communities. Restoration of some semi-natural meadows and pastures started in the late 1970s. Removing trees and shrubs, grazing, mowing, and pollarding deciduous trees were used as restoration of practises. Vegetation changes were followed from forty-one permanent sample plots established on restored areas. In this paper the data before restoration and 7-8 years after the first monitoring was analysed with parametric tests. The sample plots were divided into three restoration groups where the main restoration practises were: group 1. grazing, group 2. thinning (clearing plots from shrubs and removing some trees), group 3. thinning, mowing, and grazing (old wooded meadows). The results showed that: (1) The vegetation changed during analysed time. The number of species increased in all restored areas even though the changes were more pronounced in grazed areas and wooded meadows than in thinned areas. During restoration many common herb and grass species immigrated into the sample plots, but very few new indicator species of meadows were recorded. Most of the new species were found in few numbers in a sample plot which led to the significant increase in the number of sparse species (percentage cover &lt 1) in all restoration groups. The grasses benefited more from the restoration than herbs increasing their percentage cover significantly in grazed areas and in wooded meadows. In thinned areas the total percentage cover of the ten most dominant herb and grass species increased significantly. (2) The different restoration groups changed vegetation quite similarly. In grazed areas and in wooded meadows significant changes were slightly more numerous than in thinned areas. (3) The differences between the islands in vegetation changes were not pronounced. The added variance components among islands increased during restoration which probably indicated that the restoration practises as well as the species pool of the islands influenced the success of restoration.
20050415|Young seedlings of Dittrichia viscosa L. (syn. Inula viscosa (L.) Aiton) (Asteraceae) were extensively treated with artificial rain in order to remove the water soluble component of their epicuticular UV-B absorbing compounds. As a result, 75% of the epicuticular absorbing capacity at 300 nm was lost. The seedlings were subsequently grown in a naturaly lit glasshouse for 80 days under 0.06, 6.41 and
40212986|We assessed whether exposure to solar ultraviolet-B radiation (UV- B) affects the mass loss of Larrea tridentata (creosotebush) litter in the Sonoran Desert of central Arizona. We placed three types of litter (leaves, twigs, or a natural mixture of leaves, twigs, and seeds) in bags constructed of UV-B-transmitting or UV-B-absorbing filter material that allowed either 85% (near-ambient UV-B treatment) or 15% (reduced UV-B treatment) of the biologically effective solar UV-B to reach litter inside the bags. Bags were placed outdoors for 4-5 months during the winter at two sites: a balcony or on the soil surface of the desert. Mass loss of leaf litter was greater under near-ambient UV-B than reduced UV-B at both sites: 21 (near-ambient) vs. 18% (reduced) on the balcony, and 18 vs. 14% at the desert site. Mass loss of twig litter was also greater under near-ambient UV-B at the desert site. Mass loss of the natural mixture of litter was also greater when exposed to near-ambient UV- B on the balcony, and tended to be greater at the desert site. We estimate that about 14-22% of the total mass loss of leaf litter during our 4-5 month experiments was attributable to solar UVB exposure. Leaf litter exposed to near-ambient UV-B had lower concentrations of lignin, and fats and lipids, and slightly higher concentrations of holocellulose. The greater mass loss of litter under near-ambient UV-B appeared mainly attributable to loss of lignin, although losses of fats and lipids were also appreciable. A primary reason for greater mass loss of litter under solar UV-B appeared to be photodegradation, particularly of lignin.
23500356|Estimates of soil seed banks are important to many ecological investigations and plant conservation, yet seed banks are among the most difficult plant community attributes to accurately quantify. To compare extraction and emergence seed bank characterization methods, we collected 0- to 5-cm soil seed bank samples and measured plant community composition in six microsite types (below different perennial plant species and interspaces) at 10 field sites in the Mojave Desert, USA. Extraction detected five times more species sample -1 and orders of magnitude greater seed density than emergence, though evaluating viability of extracted seed was not straightforward. Only 13 % of 847 tested seeds from extraction emerged in follow-up assays. Considering all sites, species detection was more similar between methods: 21 taxa for emergence and 28 for extraction. Results suggest that: (i) capturing microsite variation is critical for efficiently estimating site-level desert seed banks; (ii) method comparisons hinged on the scale of analysis for species richness, as differences in species detection between methods diminished when increasing resolution from the sample to the regional scale; (iii) combining data from all seed bank methods provided the strongest correlation with vegetation; and (iv) improving knowledge of seed germinability is important for advancing both seed bank methods, including for extraction to evaluate the proportion of extracted seeds that are viable. Multifactor approaches that balance several effectiveness measures (e.g., both seed density and species detection at multiple scales) and procedural challenges are most likely to accurately represent complexity in tradeoffs for choosing methods to quantify soil seed banks.
20050604|Although it is known that forest productivity is highly correlated with canopy leaf area, the influence of environmental gradients within a forest on leaf area-productivity relationships has not been well-documented, particularly for mixed-species forests. The present study was conducted to define the mechanisms by which Central Hardwood forest communities respond to changes in environment. Ecological Land Type Phases (ELTPs) of the Central Hardwood region, delineated by soils, topography, and indicator vegetation, provided a framework to examine the impacts of environmental gradients on leaf area-productivity relationships at a landscape level. Three ELTPs-(1) Quercus prinus / Carex picta-Vaccinium, Dry slope, (2) Quercus alba-Acer saccharum / Parthenocissus, Dry-Mesic Slope, and (3) Fagus-Acer saccharum / Arisaema, Mesic Slope- were selected and stratified into three slope positions viz. the upper edge of the community, the middle or center of the community on the slope, and the lower edge of the community. Circular plots of 0.02 ha in size were established for sampling. Standing stock (basal area, volume, and biomass), annual production, leaf area index, and growth efficiency were determined for each slope position and examined to determine the mechanisms and trends for community change across slope positions. Among the three communities studied, dry slopes compensated for drier conditions through both a shift in species composition and reduced annual production. Dry-mesic slopes exhibited adaptation only through changing species composition whereas mesic slopes compensated for drier conditions primarily through reduction in annual production. These results indicate that mixed-species forest communities adjust to environmental gradients through several mechanisms and that the relative importance of these mechanisms changes with community type.
40305634|It is widely believed that functional diversity contributes to the stability of ecosystems. Indeed, greater redundancy among species within functional groups and greater complementarity among functional groups within communities should increase the resistance and resilience of ecosystems. In the present study, we tested for functional group complementarity by examining how the loss of specific functional groups may alter the role that other groups play in ecosystem functions. We removed different functional groups, one at a time, from the understory of three maple-dominated forests in southern Quebec (Canada) and followed the understory response over a 2-year period. The experimental design included a control and five removal treatments. Five functional groups were defined: spring-flowering ephemeral species; springflowering persistent species; summer-flowering species; fern species; and seedlings and juveniles of woody species. Richness, cover, soil pH and organic matter content were determined after two years of removal. The results of our experiment revealed that richness was significantly lower than what we expected when spring-flowering persistent species or seedlings and juveniles of woody species were removed, suggesting not only direct but also indirect positive effects of both of these groups on understory richness (mostly through effects on summer-flowering species and fern species). Removal of the seedlings and juveniles of woody species and, to a lesser extent, of spring-flowering persistent species and of fern species lead to a decrease in the cover of summer-flowering species, implying a positive effect of the former groups on the latter. The cover-richness relationship in the control and in each one of the five removal treatments was positive and well fitted by a linear regression. Yet, the slope of the relationship differed among treatments, but not between the control and any one of the removal treatments (pair-wise comparisons). Our results suggest that the different functional groups are complementary and that positive interactions predominate over negative ones. Contrary to common belief, understory plants can respond quite rapidly to changes in community functional composition. Although we have not investigated the specific mechanisms responsible for the short-term responses reported here, we suggest that complex intergroup interactions may favour functional diversity and enhance ecosystem functions.
20050421|A highland (altitude 1600 m) and a lowland (altitude -2 m) population of the perennial herb Silene vulgaris were tested on the effects of elevated levels of UV-B radiation on their reproductivity. Highland populations receive higher natural UV-B doses than lowland populations. Therefore adaptation to high UV-B levels of the highland population is to be expected. The lowland population showed a decrease in the number of seed producing flowers and the number of seeds produced per plant under elevated UV-B levels. The highland population increased the number of seeds per plant under elevated UV-B levels. In both populations individual seed mass as well as seed germination percentages were unaffected by the UV-B flux received by the parental plant. Possible effects of UV-B induced alterations in reproductivity on the geographical distribution of the different populations are discussed.
20051238|The purpose of this study is to determine the flowering requirements of Polymnia canadensis and how they correspond to the occurrence of winter annuals, biennials, and short-lived monocarpic perennials in this species. Polymnia canadensis has a vernalization requirement for flowering, and even very small plants (i.e., those with one pair of leaves) can be vernalized. Vernalized plants can flower under both long- and short days. However, to flower plants must attain a minimum postvernalization size. Plants of this primarily monocarpic species that do not die after they flower once require another period of vernalization to flower a second time (i.e., to be dicarpic). Vernalized plants exposed to high temperatures can be devernalized; these must be re-vernalized in order to flower.
20146642|Ecologists increasingly use spatial statistics to study vegetation patterns. Mostly, however, these techniques are applied in a purely descriptive fashion without a priori statements on the pattern characteristics expected. We formulated such a priori predictions in a study of spatial pattern in a semi-arid Karoo shrubland, South Africa. Both seed dispersal and root competition have been discussed as processes shaping the spatial structure of this community. If either of the two processes dominates pattern formation, patterns within and between shrub functional groups are expected to show distinct deviations from null models. We predicted the type and scale of these deviations and compared predicted to observed pattern characteristics. As predicted by the seed dispersal hypothesis, small-scale co-occurrence within and between groups of colonisers and successors was increased as compared to complete spatially random arrangement of shrubs. The root competition predictions, however, were not met as shrubs of similar rooting depth co-occurred more frequently than expected under random shrub arrangement. Since the distribution of rooting groups to the given shrub locations also failed to match the root competition predictions, there was little evidence for dominance of root competition in pattern formation. Although other processes may contribute to small-scale plant co-occurrence, the sufficient and most parsimonious explanation for the observed pattern is that its formation was dominated by seed dispersal. To characterise point patterns we applied both cumulative (uni- and bivariate K-function) and local (pair- and mark-correlation function) techniques. Based on our results we recommend that future studies of vegetation patterns include local characteristics as they independently describe a pattern at different scales and can be easily related to processes changing with interplant distance in a predictable fashion.
40305617|Forests play a major role in global carbon (C) cycle, and the carbon density (CD) could reflect its ecological function of C sequestration. Study on the CD of different forest types on a community scale is crucial to characterize in depth the capacity of forest C sequestration. In this study, based on the forest inventory data of 168 field plots in the study area (E 11130'-11350', N 3730'-3940'), the forest vegetation was classified by using quantitative method (TWINSPAN); the living biomass of trees was estimated using the volume-derived method; the CD of different forest types was estimated from the biomass of their tree species; and the effects of biotic and abiotic factors on CD were studied using a multiple linear regression analysis. The results show that the forest vegetation in this region could be classified into 9 forest formations. The average CD of the 9 forest formations was 32.09 Mg ha in 2000 and 33.86 Mg ha in 2005. Form. Picea meyeri had the highest CD (56.48 Mg ha), and Form. Quercus liaotungensis + Acer mono had the lowest CD (16.14 Mg ha). Pre-mature forests and mature forests were very important stages in C sequestration among four age classes in these formations. Forest densities, average age of forest stand, and elevation had positive relationships with forest CD, while slope location had negative correlation with forest CD.
20051145|We designed an experiment with potted plants grown outdoors to investigate the expression of shade avoidance in simulated sparse and dense canopies by two perennial grasses known to express contrasting responses to low red:far-red ratios (R:FR). Plants were grown in canopy microenvironments designed to lower the R:FR by reflection of horizontally propagated FR from neighbors and by direct attenuation of R by filters located above plants. Two specific hypotheses were tested: (1) Paspalum dilatatum will express greater shade avoidance than Schizachyrium scoparium to low R:FR in both sparse and dense canopies, and (2) low R:FR will produce greater expressions of shade avoidance in sparse than in dense canopies in both species. P. dilatatum was more responsive to low R:FR than S. scoparium in both the sparse and dense canopies and lower ramet number
20146859|A review of our current understanding of resistant biomacromolecules derived from present and past algae and higher plants is presented. Insight in the nature of recent and fossil macromolecules is strongly hampered by the difficulties in obtaining the material in pure and unaltered form. For the extant material, avoiding artificial condensation and structural alteration as a result of chemical isolation and purification of biomacromolecules requires constant attention. To date, several types of sporopollenin seem to occur. One type is characterised by oxygenated aromatic building blocks, in particular p-coumaric acid and ferrulic acid. The other type is thought to consist predominantly of an aliphatic biopolymer. In this review it is concluded that extant sporopollenin consists of the aromatic type, whereas the aliphatic component of fossil sporopollenin is due to early-diagenetic oxidative polymerization of unsaturated lipids. The cuticles of most higher plants contain the aliphatic biopolyester cutin. Additionally, cuticles of drought-adapted, mostly CAM plants, seem to contain the non-hydrolysable aliphatic biopolymer cutan. Only a very few algae are able to biosynthesize resistant, (fossilisable) cell walls: some Chlorophyta, Eustigmatophyta and Prasinophyta produce the aliphatic biopolymer algaenan. Some Dinophyta are also capable of producing algaenan cell walls. Additionally, some taxa produce highly resistant cyst-walls with a high proportion of aromatic moieties. For the morphologically well-preserved fossil material, contamination by organic particles other than the target taxon is hard to eliminate and can contribute to either the aliphatic or aromatic signal. Furthermore, post-mortem migration of aliphatic moieties into, and their condensation onto the macromolecule might occur, e.g. by oxidative polymerization. These phenomena hamper the evaluation of the aliphatic signature of fossil plant material and may for example explain the preservation of initially cutin-based cuticles or non-algaenan containing algae. The extent to which migration and in situ formation of aromatic moieties plays a role in modifying resistant algal macromolecules, notably under elevated temperature and/or pressure conditions, still remains an open question.
20050684|Spatial patterns in natural vegetations result to a large extent from competitive interactions between neighbouring plants. Pattern analyses techniques are often used to estimate the importance of competitive interactions between plants. In this study, we used pattern analysis techniques, based upon image-analyses, to estimate the importance of competitive interactions for maintaining the spatial pattern of neighbouring perennial grasses in natural savanna populations in Zimbabwe. The results of the different methods used, including nearest-neighbour and non-overlapping domain analysis, suggest that competitive interactions between neighbouring tufts play a limited role in maintaining the spatial pattern in these savanna grasslands. Methodological features and the usefulness of pattern analysis techniques to estimate competition between neighbouring plants in natural vegetations are discussed.
40305574|Insect herbivory has variable effects on plant physiology; so greater understanding is needed about how injury alters photosynthesis on individual injured and uninjured leaves. Gas exchange and lightadapted leaf chlorophyll fluorescence measurements were collected from uninjured and mechanical partial leaf defoliation in two experiments with Nerium oleander (Apocynaceae) leaves, and one experiment with Danaus plexippus herbivory on Asclepias curassavica (Asclepiadaceae) leaves. Gas exchange impairment (lower photosynthetic rate
20146462|We studied the response of a clonal herb, Prunella vulgaris, to its position in a gap, the identity of neighbouring graminoid species, and simulation of competition for light. The growth characteristics, such as stolon length, internode length and number of stolons were recorded in competitive environments with graminoid bunches of Molinia caerulea, Juncus effusus and Nardus stricta and in different types of gaps in a manipulative field experiment. Two pot experiments studied the effect of reduced light and of low red/far red ratio (R/FR) on the plant growth characteristics. In both field and pot experiments we monitored stolon orientation in a treatment divided into two parts (competition/shaded or gap/unshaded). Methods of circular statistics were used to evaluate stolon orientation. The graminoid bunches had equivalent effects on plant vegetative growth -- plants had longer stolons and internodes than plants growing in gaps. The effects of treatments on other characteristics (amounts of stolons and leaves) were not significant. In divided treatment, plants responded by accumulation of stolons and leaves in vegetation removed part, and avoided the vegetated part. In the pot experiments the plant biomass and stolon number decreased in low R/FR and in low irradiance treatments, but the internodes in low R/FR were 26% longer compared to the control. Centroids were uniformly distributed in divided low R/FR treatment contrary to low irradiance treatment where they showed preference for unshaded part. No dependency of stolon length on its orientation was found in divided treatments of both experiments. Prunella vulgaris in heterogeneous environment distinguished favourable and less favourable conditions and produced more stolons with shorter internodes under favourable conditions. This resulted in concentration of resource acquiring structures in favourable patches.
41508822|Variation in within-population floral density can affect interactions between plants and pollinators, resulting in variable pollen export for plants. We investigated the effects of conspecific and heterospecific floral densities on pollination success both of two related, self-compatible, nectar-rewarding orchid species in Ireland, Spiranthes romanzoffiana (rare and listed as endangered) and its congener, S. spiralis (more abundant and not of conservation concern). Floral densities, insect visitation rates, and orchid pollen transport were recorded in multiple quadrats in four populations of both orchid species over their flowering season. We found that conspecific and heterospecific co-flowering plant density affected pollination in both orchid species. For S. romanzoffiana, higher heterospecific density increased pollen removal. For S. spiralis, higher conspecific visitation increased pollen removal and increased heterospecific density decreased pollen deposition. In addition, increased conspecific density increased pollen deposition in both species. This study shows that plants may interact to facilitate or compete for different components of the pollination process, namely; pollinator attraction, pollen removal and deposition. Such interactions have immediate consequences for endangered plant species, as increases in both conspecific and heterospecific coflowering density may ameliorate the negative effects of rarity on pollination, hence overall reproductive success.
20050520|We characterized stand structure and floristic composition of woody life forms in three, 16-18 yr old secondary stands that regenerated after pasture abandonment, and three nearby old-growth stands of tropical rain forest in lowland Costa Rica. Basal area and stem density for each of four plant size classes (seedlings, saplings, treelets, trees) were similar among stand types, but density of adult canopy palsm (individuals  10 cm DBH), was lower in the secondary stands. We estimate that 15% of the basal area of stems  10 cm DBH correspond to remnant trees in our secondary stands. The observed rapid woody regrowth compared to other published studies in the lowland neotropics, can be attributed to moderate land use and possibly, to the influence of nutrient-rich volcanic soils in the study area. Overall, plant species richness was lower in the secondary stands, but this difference was less pronounced in the smallest size classes (seedlings, saplings). Median percent similarity of all pairwise stand comparisons showed that floristic composition of saplings (stems  1 m tall and  5 cm DBH) was more similar between secondary and old-growth stands than for trees (stems  10 cm DBH). Because the potential value of secondary forests in conserving woody plant diversity appears highest for the young size classes, we suggest that further studies on floristic composition, especially those addressing the dynamics of the understory component, are needed to refine our understanding of the role of this natural resource in the maintenance of plant biodiversity in disturbed landscapes.
41508770|Centaurea stoebe L. subsp. micranthos is native to Eurasia and is invasive in the western portion of the US. Negative impacts of C. stoebe micranthos present in the eastern US have not been recorded. In this study, we examine the effects of C. stoebe micranthos on species diversity on an eastern grassy bald, compare the competitive abilities of plant species from eastern and western grasslands against C. stoebe micranthos, and assess the production of allelopathic compounds in an eastern population of C. stoebe micranthos. Field observations indicated that increasing C. stoebe micranthos abundance was not associated with decreasing abundance or diversity of species. In a greenhouse experiment, C. stoebe micranthos growing with plant species from an eastern grassland were smaller than C. stoebe micranthos growing with species from western grasslands, suggesting that species from the eastern grassland are more competitive against C. stoebe micranthos. We found no evidence that the eastern population of C. stoebe micranthos has allelopathic effects. While the invasion dynamics may change over time, the possibility that C. stoebe micranthos may never become invasive in the studied grassy bald should be weighed when considering control measures here and throughout the eastern US. This study illustrates that invasion dynamics can vary geographically and that land managers need relevant information to gauge an appropriate and economical response.
20050975|Over the past 14 years, long-term ecological research (LTER) was conducted on the desert perennial, Welwitschia mirabilis (Gnetales: Welwitschiaceae), located in the Welwitschia Wash near Gobabeb in the Central Namib Desert. We measured leaf growth of 21 plants on a monthly basis and compared this with climatic data. The population structure as well as its spatial distribution was determined for 110 individuals. Growth rate was 0.37 mm
20050556|The Betula pendula Roth. seeds used in this study were collected from three different natural populations in the province of Lugo (NW Spain). Three samplings were obtained from each population during the dispersal period of the species. The objective of our research was to assess the germination response of the seeds from each population and sampling when exposed to some of the most important effects of fires: high temperatures, ash and their joint effect. Significant differences have been found in the germination percentages of the seeds from the different populations and also from the three samplings. However, the tested effects of fire: heat, ash and their joint effect did not significantly affect the germination percentage of this species.
40926891|We monitored a permanent plot of 3-year-old Chamaecyparis obtusa seedlings for 11 years after planting. As the stem cross-sectional area at the crown base can be regarded as a good predictor of leaf mass according to the pipe model theory, we measured this parameter to determine temporal trends in leaf biomass. The mean values showed asymptotic growth, maintaining a near-constant level after a stand age of 9 years. Peak values were found at 9 years, followed by a slight decrease because of a continuous reduction in stand density.This temporal trend suggests that the leaf biomass per unit land area attains a peak at an age of 9 years. As the stand density changes with stand age, the relationship between stand stem cross-sectional area at the crown base and stand density showed an optimum curve in which the optimum density was around 9200 ha.We propose hypothetical trends in primary productivity and biomass density with stand age, based on the results of measurements of stem cross-sectional area at the crown base and stand density under the assumption of the 3/2 power law of self-thinning.
20051170|This study investigated the variation along basipetal gradients of the relationships between the foliage/wood allocation ratios of biomass and of water content, in Mediterranean trees and shrubs, at two different locations along a climatic gradient. Understanding of the biomass allocation and water relations in Mediterranean trees and shrubs provides useful information on growth patterns of these species, and on resource dynamics of these plant communities. Two experimental sites were selected along a climatological transect that runs from the foothills of the Judean Hills to the northern Negev desert in Israel. At each site, 16 quadrats of 10  10 m (eight on south-facing slopes and eight on north-facing slopes) were marked. The aboveground biomass of dominant tree and shrub species were estimated. Main branches of trees and shrubs were cut, their foliage and wood biomass were separately weighed, and their respective water contents were determined. The species studied included the evergreen sclerophylls, Quercus calliprinos, Phillyrea latifolia and Pistacia lentiscus, and the semi-deciduous species, Cistus creticus, Coridothymus capitatus and Sarcopoterium spinosum. The results indicated that the foliage/wood ratio decreased from the periphery of the crown to the interior of the trees and shrubs: foliage biomass and water were mainly limited to the top 30 cm of the crown in all studied species. Leaves had higher relative water contents than woody tissues in the upper part of the crown. However; when the whole tree or shrub was considered, the relative water content was found to be mostly allocated to the woody structures. The results are discussed in terms of biomass allocation in various life forms of the eastern-Mediterranean plant communities and how they are affected by slope aspect and climatic conditions.
24552024|Biased sex ratios can have conservation consequences for dioecious plant species with small population sizes because of an increased risk of single sex populations. Biased sex ratios have been observed in two of the three species of Lindera (Lauraceae) in the eastern United States, but have not been documented for Lindera subcoriacea, a rare shrub of the southeastern USA. We inventoried 78 of 118 populations in North Carolina over a 3 year period, documenting the location, community type, and sex, of 299 individuals. In addition, we measured the stem height and diameter for 245 individuals. We examined population persistence relative to historical population size estimates. Average population size was 7.9 individuals and 72 % of visited populations were extant. There was a significant positive correlation between historical estimates of population size and persistence. Lindera subcoriacea consistently had male-biased (58 %) sex ratios across all population sizes and vegetation communities. Males and females had similar stem heights (mean 200.4 vs. 187.8 cm, respectively) and diameters (1.3 vs. 1.2 cm, respectively) across years and were not spatially segregated within populations. It is unclear at what stage biased sex ratios arise in L. subcoriacea, but results suggest that the causes operate across vegetation communities and population sizes. The weak bias exhibited in L. subcoriacea sex ratios has limited implications for the species' conservation except where spatially isolated populations are unisexual. Given the vulnerability of small L. subcoriacea populations to extirpation, they should be high priority targets for management.
41508737|Spatial associations of tree saplings with spiny or toxic plants in grazed woodlands are generally explained by associational resistance, i.e., protection against grazing via a well-defended neighbor. In this study, we tested whether directed seed dispersal and post-dispersal seed removal by wood mice are additional explanations for the observed spatial association between thorny shrubs and trees, hence before associational resistance. We performed three studies in grazed woodlands in the Netherlands to test this idea. Our first seed dispersal experiment with tagged acorns showed indeed that wood mice disperse acorns directed towards shrubs. The majority of these dispersed acorns were, however, consumed. Our second experiment revealed that post-dispersal removal of cached acorns was higher under shrubs than in grassland and under trees, but also indicated the importance of within-shrub position: shrub centers were faster depleted than shrub edges. Also the number of freshly emerged seedlings and older saplings differed between micro-habitats, being higher under trees and at shrub inner-edges than at shrub outeredges, shrub centers, and in grassland. The spatial associations with shrubs got stronger with the age of saplings, which probably reflect accumulated grazing effects over time, being higher in the open than in shrubs. We conclude that directed acorn dispersal and post-dispersal acorn removal by wood mice are two additional explaining mechanisms for the spatial associations between thorny shrubs and trees in grazed woodlands, before associational resistance. Our findings change the view that large herbivores are the sole main drivers behind tree recruitment patterns in grazed woodlands.
20146519|The effects of long term browsing on growth and morphology of P. atlantica trees and P. palaestina shrubs, and on the colonization of these hosts by their respective gall-inducing aphid guilds, were studied in natural vegetation pastures in Israel. To simulate apical dominance release by browsing, trees and shrubs were pruned and observed one year later. P. atlantica responded strongly to browsing, producing a crown of dense and sharp dry branches and thorn-like shoots, and pruning, compensating or overcompensating for the lost biomass in the studied morphological variables. Morphological responses of P. palaestina were less evident: we found no compensation in most variables. Three species of aphids produced more galls on browsed than on control shoots of P. atlantica. Two species induced more galls on pruned shoots. The five aphid species on P. palaestina colonized browsed and unbrowsed shoots equally, and produced fewer galls on pruned shoots. The role of apical dominance in architectural responses of trees and shrubs to browsing and pruning, as related to resource availability and timing, is discussed.
40305655|Legumes are an important component of mediterranean grasslands with a significant ecological and economic role. The aim of this study was to investigate the factors that affect their establishment and growth and how they survive in a highly variable and unpredictable environment. The research was carried out in a grassland characterised by a semi-arid mediterranean climate and located on a calcareous substrate at about 150 m a.s.l., in Macedonia, northern Greece. It was dominated by annual legumes such as Hippocrepis multisiliquosa, Medicago disciformis, Medicago minima, Onobrychis aequindentata, Trifolium angustifolium, Trifolium campestre and Trifolium scabrum. It was subjected to the following treatments for four consecutive years: prescribed burning, irrigation, digging, cutting, P fertilization and control. Total legume density was measured in late autumn and in the following spring each year, while total legume biomass was measured only in spring. Dominant legume species densities and biomasses were measured only in spring in the last 3 years. Also, monthly precipitation and air temperature were recorded in a nearby weather station. A great reduction of both legume density and biomass occurred at the third growing season due to adverse weather conditions. Among treatments, P fertilization affected the positively annual legume density and biomass. The other treatments such as burning, irrigation, digging and cutting influenced positively or negatively annual legume density and biomass depending on the climatic characteristics of the particular growing season involved. It is concluded that in semi-arid mediterranean grasslands with cold winters, weather conditions strongly interact with human disturbances in affecting establishment and growth of annual legumes.
40305729|Mate abundance is one of the most important sources of variation in plant mating systems. We examined within-population heterogeneity in the pollen pool at two spatial scales (sites and plants), and investigated the mating pattern variation in Myrtus communis under diverse situations of conspecific neighbourhood, using allozyme electrophoresis of naturally pollinated progeny arrays. For mating analyses, plants sampled were classified into four neighbourhood groups (from high to low) based on the local density around them and the distance to their nearest neighbour. The pollen pool was much more genetically heterogeneous among mother plants (~ 21%) than among sites (~ 2%), probably because of the high levels of selfing found (average s = 0.65). Outcrossing rates differed significantly among neighbourhood groups and showed a marked trend towards higher values from the lowest
20051330|Nine leaf traits (area, fresh weight, dry weight, volume, density, thickness, specific leaf area (SLA), dry matter content (LDMC), leaf nitrogen content (LNC)) from ten plant species at eight sites in southern mediterranean France were investigated in order to assess their variability along a climatic gradient and their ranking congruency power. After examination of trait correlation patterns, we reduced the nine initial leaf traits to four traits, representative of three correlation groups: allometric traits (dry weight), functional traits (SLA and dry matter percentage) and Leaf Thickness. We analysed the variability of these four leaf traits at species and site level. We observed that between species variation (between 64.5 for SLA and 91% for LDMC) is higher than within species variation. Allowing a good congruency of species ranking assessed by spearman rank correlation () and a good reallocation of individuals to species by discriminant analysis. A site level variability (between 0.7% for Dry weight and 6.9% for SLA) was identified and environmental parameters (altitude, temperature, precipitation, nitrogen, pH) were considered as probable control factors. We found significant correlation between SLA, LDMC and the average minimum temperature (respectively r=0.87 and r=0,9) and no correlation for the other traits or environmental parameters. Furthermore, we conclude that two leaf traits appear to be central in describing species: specific leaf area (SLA), percentage of dry matter (LDMC. While, SLA and LDMC are strongly correlated, LDMC appears to be less variable than SLA. According to our results the Dry Matter Content (or its reversal Leaf Water Content) appears the best leaf trait to be quantified for plant functional screening. Leaf thickness appeared to be rather uncorrelated with other leaf traits and show no environmental contingency; its variability could not have been explained in this study. Further studies should focus on this trait.
41508814|An improved understanding of population-level consequences of grazing on plants can be facilitated by an assessment of grazing effects on all stages in the life-cycle. In this study, 6 years of demographic data for three populations of the perennial herb Geranium sylvaticum were analysed. We examined the effects of sheep grazing (high sheep density, low sheep density and no sheep) and interannual climatic variability on vital rates and population growth rates (). Grazing did not affect survival or flowering rates, but reduced rates of growth and increased rates of clonal reproduction. At the population level, high contributions from retrogression and clonal reproduction buffered reduced rates of growth and stasis, and no consistent differences in  between populations exposed to different sheep densities were found. Instead, large between-year variability in , independent of sheep density, was detected, related to variation in the local summer climate. The results indicated, however, that grazing effects on  were more severe in unfavourable than in normal years. Our study highlights that increased clonal reproduction rates functioned as a tolerance mechanism towards grazing in this herb, which forms a mechanism to explain how moderate population responses to grazing in some herbs can arise.
20146736|Previous studies have shown that variations in environmental conditions play a major role in explaining variations in plant species richness at community and landscape scales. In this study, we considered the degree to which fine-scale spatial variations in richness could be related to fine-scale variations in abiotic and biotic factors. To examine spatial variation in richness, grids of 1 m plots were laid out at five sites within a coastal riverine wetland landscape. At each site, a 5  7 array of plots was established adjacent to the river's edge with plots one meter apart. In addition to the estimation of species richness, environmental measurements included sediment salinity, plot microelevation, percent of plot recently disturbed, and estimated community biomass. Our analysis strategy was to combine the use of structural equation modeling (path modeling) with an assessment of spatial association. Mantel's tests revealed significant spatial autocorrelation in species richness at four of the five sites sampled, indicating that richness in a plot correlated with the richness of nearby plots. We subsequently considered the degree to which spatial autocorrelations in richness could be explained by spatial autocorrelations in environmental conditions. Once data were corrected for environmental correlations, spatial autocorrelation in residual species richness could not be detected at any site. Based on these results, we conclude that in this coastal wetland, there appears to be a fine-scale mapping of diversity to microgradients in environmental conditions.
20147008|Spatial autocorrelation in vegetation has been discussed extensively, but little is yet known about how standard plant sampling methods perform when confronted with varying levels of patchiness. Simulated species maps with a range of total abundance and spatial autocorrelation (patchiness) were sampled using four methods: strip transect, randomly located quadrats, the non-nested multiscale modified Whittaker plot and the nested multiscale North Carolina Vegetation Survey (NCVS) plot. Cover and frequency estimates varied widely within and between methods, especially in the presence of high patchiness and for species with moderate abundances. Transect sampling showed the highest variability, returning estimates of 19-94% cover for a species with an actual cover of 50%. Transect and random methods were likely to miss rare species entirely unless large numbers of quadrats were sampled. NCVS plots produced the most accurate cover estimates because they sampled the largest area. Total species richness calculated using semilog species-area curves was overestimated by transect and random sampling. Both multiscale methods, the modified Whittaker and the NCVS plots, overestimated species richness when patchiness was low, and underestimated it when patchiness was high. There was no clear distinction between the nested NCVS or the non-nested modified Whittaker plot for any of the measures assessed. For all sampling methods, cover and especially frequency estimates were highly variable, and depended on both the level of autocorrelation and the sampling method used. The spatial structure of the vegetation must be considered when choosing field sampling protocols or comparing results between studies that used different methods.
20051195|A special type of clonal growth, spread by lateral roots, is hypothesized to be a favourable trait of invasive, opportunistic plant species of disturbed habitats. We tested this hypothesis for the invasive forb Rorippa austriaca (Brassicaceae). Regeneration from root fragments, subsequent vegetative spread and allocation patterns in relation to varied nutrient supply and intensity and pattern of interspecific competition were analyzed in container experiments. Regeneration success from root fragments was 100% and clonal spread was rapid but vegetative performance was strongly reduced under unfertilized conditions and, particularly, when interspecific competition was present. While the ratio of above- to belowground bio-mass did not differ considerably between treatments, R. austriaca allocated a high amount of resources to belowground growth resulting in low aboveground but high belowground biomass at harvest time relative to the matrix vegetation. Differences in shoot number or biomass between simulated gaps and densely vegetated quadrants in the containers were (relatively) weak. Reproductive effort was less reduced under low resource levels, and the clones did not set seed at all, irrespective of the treatment. Our results show that clonal growth by lateral roots and plasticity in clonal growth patterns in R. austriaca promote both exploitation of gaps and nutrient-rich microsites and resistance to competitors. Such plasticity, combined with its ability to regenerate from widely-dispersed root fragments, contribute to the ability of the species to invade and persist within disturbed and spatially heterogeneous habitats.
41686811|Insect herbivory imposes a strong selection pressure on plants. As a result, plants have evolved a wide array of defences, including resistance traits that help them reduce the negative impact of herbivores. Along one axis of variation, these traits can be divided into direct resistance (physical and chemical defences) and indirect resistance (the recruitment of natural enemies of the herbivore via extrafloral nectar and other incentives). Along a second axis of variation, resistance can be split into constitutive resistance, which is always present, and induced resistance, which is expressed more strongly following damage to plant tissues. Interestingly, the strength and efficacy of all of constitutive-direct, constitutive-indirect, induced-direct, and induced-indirect resistance can vary with plant age and ontological stage. Here, we examine the effect of plant age on an induced-indirect resistance trait, the deployment of extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) to attract pugnacious ants, in a short-lived annual, broad bean (Vicia faba L.). We demonstrate that in severely damaged plants, the induction of EFNs is greater in older plants (5-6 weeks) than in younger plants (2-4 weeks); however, in more moderately damaged plants, the induction of EFNs is unaffected by plant age. This suggests the hypothesis that a plant's ability to induce extrafloral nectar, and therefore recruit more ant "bodyguards," may be related to the interaction of plant age and severity of damage.
41508773|Among the greatest challenges currently facing terrestrial plant communities are anthropogenic nutrient amendments. Nutrient inputs can change community attributes, such as diversity and composition, and have been implicated in the increasing dominance of certain groups of species, like exotics. Overall effects of nutrients will likely be contingent on other factors in the community. One such factor is within-season change in plant communities, which has seldom been examined but may be of considerable importance. We examined within-season effects of nutrient manipulations (fertilization and litter removal) on overall community attributes and different species groups in a temperate grassland. We found the effects of nutrient amendments varied significantly over the growing season. Fertilization reduced species richness and diversity at all census points, but had the greatest effects on communities early and late in the growing season. There were few seasonal effects on species richness within functional groups, suggesting that nutrient effects were consistent and established early. Although fertilization reduced both native and exotic forb species richness throughout the season, exotics surprisingly suffered greater species losses than natives. Comparisons between within-season data and data from the end of season showed nutrient amendments have stronger community effects than previously recognized. We found that differences in cumulative species richness (all species detected during the growing season) between fertilized and unfertilized plots were greater than differences in species richness measures from any single census date. Our results suggest that predicting the overall response of plant communities to anthropogenic nutrient amendments will require thorough temporal assessments, particularly of early season species, which are generally overlooked in community studies.
40305649|Few studies have focused on vegetation characteristics of importance to feeding domestic herbivores, mainly the seasonal pattern of herbage growth at spring. Our objective is to establish and to evaluate a simple method of ranking grassland communities for these characteristics. We combined approaches at plant species level (comparison of grass species growing in a pure stand) and plant community level (comparison of grasslands differing mainly in their nutrient availability). Firstly, we ask if the ranking of species by leaf dry matter content (LDMC), a functional parameter used to assess the plant strategy for resource acquisition and use, is consistent with a classification of the species using three plant features that determine plant growth pattern at spring (beginning and ending of stem elongation, leaf lifespan). Secondly, for three networks of natural grasslands, we test whether there is consistency when ranking them by their dominant plant functional type (PFT A, B or C) established previously at species level, and by the three agronomic characteristics. For species growing in pure stands, there was a significant effect of PFT for the three plant features. For species having a low LDMC (A and B PFT), there were earlier stem elongation in the season, earlier flowering and shorter leaf lifespan. The opposite was observed for species having a high LDMC (C and D PFT). For grassland communities dominated by A-PFT, the ceiling yield for leaves and stems occurred earlier in spring than for those dominated by C-PFT. Results were consistent at plant and community levels. Scaling up from plant to community was well mediated by PFT. Plant features which characterize species for resource acquisition and use are consistent with herbage growth patterns at plant community level. These results show that herbage growth pattern and composition depend on PFTs and that knowing the PFT dominance is of great importance to plan the use of grasslands. We can expect to use the PFT approach to perform vegetation diagnosis at field level when the objective is to rank grassland communities for their agronomic characteristics.
40212976|We studied the breeding system and flower visitors of the endangered plant, Penstemon haydenii, at several south-central Wyoming, USA occurrences. In agreement with earlier studies of the species 300 km to the east in Nebraska, we found Wyoming plants to be selfincompatible and pollinator-dependent for sexual reproduction. Flower visitors were several species of native bees in the families Apidae (particularly bumblebees), Halictidae (small sweat bees), and Megachilidae (especially in the genus Osmia); and the masarid wasp Pseudomasaris vespoides. Especially important was Osmia brevis, an abun- dant megachilid bee, and one of only two species (the sweat bee Lasioglossum (Dialictus) pruinosum was the other) present at all five sites. As in Nebraska, fruit set did not differ between our experimental cross-pollination treatment and an open-pollinated control. However, unlike Nebraska, open-pollinated treatments in Wyoming produced significantly fewer seeds per fruit than the experimental out-crossing treatment. We discuss several possible explanations for seed limitation: (1) a scarcity of pollinators early in the flowering season; (2) resource competition for developing ovules on open-pollinated inflorescences but not on experimental inflorescences; (3) the deposition of self pollen through intra-inflorescence and intra-genet pollinator movements; (4) few Salleles and mating types in the Wyoming metapopulation compared to the Nebraska metapopulation, from which it likely derives.
40305679|With biomass densities comparable to large ungulates and megaherbivores, termites play a key functional role in many tropical savanna ecosystems. This study focuses on vegetated termite mounds (termitaria) constructed by the Termitidae species Macrotermes hems. We studied how resource rich termitaria affect graminoid herbs (Poaceae and Cyperaceae), forbs and woody species composition and diversity. The density of termitaria explained 89% of the variation in dense thickets in the area. Fire tolerant Acacia species dominated the open savanna while fire sensitive species like Grewia spp. and the succulent Euphorbia candelabrum were restricted to termite mounds. Termitaria plots had four times the mean number of woody species and supported three times as many forb species as the adjacent savanna. For woody species, both the Shannon-Wiener index and the Shannon evenness index were higher on temitaria than on the savanna. There were no differences for graminoid herbs, except for the Shannon evenness index which was higher on termitaria. Our results indicate that graminoid herb richness peaks at lower productivity levels than trees and forbs in savanna ecosystems, as also recently found in temperate areas.
41412380|A full understanding of the ecology and evolution of plant tolerance to damage requires the measurement of a diversity of traits (including multiple fitness-correlates) and underlying mechanisms. Here, we address the compensatory response to defoliation in the perennial herb Ruellia nudiflora, measure biomass allocation patterns and relate them to compensation, and address multiple mechanisms and traits that determine compensatory ability. We used maternal full-sib lines of R. nudiflora and conducted a defoliation experiment in which half the plants of each line were subjected to removal of 40% of leaf area (the other half remained undamaged). Fitness-correlated traits, physiological traits, and leaf longevity were measured during a 2-month period after defoliation. Using another set of plants, we conducted a second defoliation experiment and measured the concentration of non-structural carbohydrates to test for root-to-shoot carbon mobilization as a compensatory mechanism. R. nudiflora showed full compensation in terms of fruit output, and compensatory ability was positively correlated with investment in root biomass in the absence of damage. In addition, defoliated plants produced shorterlived leaves and had a greater concentration of starch in roots, suggesting that reduced leaf longevity and accumulation of below-ground carbon reserves act as compensatory mechanisms. By measuring multiple fitness-correlates and induced traits, we provide a comprehensive evaluation of R. nudiflora compensatory responses to herbivory. experiment and measured the concentration of non-structural carbohydrates to test for root-to-shoot carbon mobilization as a compensatory mechanism. R. nudiflora showed full compensation in terms of fruit output, and compensatory ability was positively correlated with investment in root biomass in the absence of damage. In addition, defoliated plants produced shorterlived leaves and had a greater concentration of starch in roots, suggesting that reduced leaf longevity and accumulation of below-ground carbon reserves act as compensatory mechanisms. By measuring multiple fitness-correlates and induced traits, we provide a comprehensive evaluation of R. nudiflora compensatory responses to herbivory.
20050697|This paper deals with the possibility of relating root hydraulic parameters to an ecological index describing the continentality/oceanicity of four forest trees. Root hydraulic conductance (
20051010|Between 1993 and 1995 we sampled herbaceous layer vegetation on 84 plots in Platanus/Asarum Wet-Mesic Bottomland forests to determine how these forests have responded to human disturbance. Four different disturbance types were sampled (abandoned agricultural are as, clearcuts, group-selection openings, and single-tree selection openings), and uncut 80-100 year-old reference stands were sampled for comparison. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA), distance analyses (chord distance and normalized Euclidean distance) and similarity analysis (Bray-Curtis similarity coefficient) suggest that agricultural use has shifted herbaceous-layer vegetation composition away from that typical of the reference forests, but that clearcutting, group-selection harvest, and single-tree selection harvest have not greatly shifted herbaceous composition. This shift in vegetation on abandoned agricultural land resulted from a loss of indicator species, such as Cardamine concatenata (Michx.) Sw., Stellaria pubera Michx., and Laportea canadensis (L.) Weddell and an influx of disturbance, exotic, and nonforest species (e.g., Lycopodium complanatum L., Lonicera japonica Thunb. and Senecio aureus L.). However, only two species found in reference stands, Erigenia bulbosa (Michx.) Nutt. and Sphenopholis obtusata (Michx.) Scribn., were missing from clearcuts, group-selection openings, and single-tree selection openings. The species richness values of abandoned agriculture, clearcut, and group-selection plots were generally greater than those of single-tree selection and reference plots. Abandoned agricultural areas had much greater total species richness because of the influx of dry-site, exotic, disturbance, and non-forest species. Nomenclature: Kartesz (1994).
23362489|Rye (Secale cereale L.) residue is known to suppress weeds in agronomic environments and to produce benzoxazinoid (BX) compounds which are phytotoxic. Experiments were conducted to determine the duration of indicator plant inhibition and BX soil concentrations in response to field incorporated or surface rye residue. Surface rye residue was highly inhibitory to lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) and smooth pigweed (Amaranthus hybridus L.) throughout an experimental period of 4 weeks, whereas soil removed from beneath residue and assayed in pots had little phytotoxicity, suggesting that physical rather than chemical mechanisms were involved. Incorporated residue inhibited lettuce and pigweed for approximately 2 weeks after incorporation, which corresponded to the period when elevated BX levels were detected in soil, suggesting potential allelopathy. The most toxic BX compounds, APO, DIBOA, and DIMBOA, were present at relatively low levels, whereas the less toxic compounds, BOA and MBOA, and the non-toxic compounds, HBOA and HMBOA, were the predominant BX species in amended soils. When the benzoxazolinones BOA and MBOA were exogenously added to soils to maintain extractable levels of up to 10 g g -1 soil (100500 times higher than measured BX in field soils), no significant inhibition of pigweed plants was observed. This result indicated that the observed association between the duration of plant inhibition and BX from incorporated rye was not causal, and that other compounds released with similar dynamics were likely responsible. This approach provides a sound basis for demonstrating the presence of allelopathy in natural or managed ecosystems.
40607013|The purpose of this study was to test competitive and allelopathic effects of invasive garlic mustard on American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) seedlings under natural conditions. For comparative purposes, we also examined the potential effects of the native striped violet {Viola striata). In order to partition effects of resource competition and chemical suppression via allelopathy, field soils were amended with activated carbon or left unamended. Activated carbon positively affected ginseng growth as well as biomass of competitors. Ginseng mortality tended to increase with garlic mustard presence, though activated carbon alleviated this response. Garlic mustard had no significant effect on ginseng seedling growth, while striped violet suppressed shoot length in the absence of activated carbon. Our results showed a surprising effect of activated carbon on plant growth, a potential allelopathic effect of the native striped violet and suggest that newly invaded ginseng populations with low densities of garlic mustard may be able to withstand its effects. However, recruitment within invaded populations may decline.
20146516| This study aimed to investigate how perennial grass species in Omo National Park (ONP), Ethiopia tolerated defoliation under varying amounts of rainfall. Perennial grasses that have evolved with grazing appear to be generally tolerant to defoliation, although how rainfall influences this tolerance is unclear. Research was conducted in three perennial grasslands where there is a rainfall gradient from north to south (800-500 mm yr). Grasslands were characterized as either wet, intermediate or dry sites according to their relative position along the rainfall gradient. The wet, intermediate, and dry sites were dominated by two, five, and two grass species, respectively, which comprised 98% of total plant basal cover at each site. Six exclosures containing a total of 12 defoliated and 12 non-defoliated plots (2  2 m) were constructed at each site. Hand-clipped defoliation treatments were imposed bimonthly for 18 months (i.e., four rainy seasons, three dry seasons). Repeated measurements of basal cover and biomass production were analyzed for overall response and by species. Basal cover increased (P &lt 0.05) or remained unchanged for all but one perennial grass species. Biomass production indicated trend for some species but was sensitive to annual rainfall. Overall results indicated that dominant perennial grasses of ONP were tolerant to defoliation, and this tolerance was expressed under all three rainfall levels. In addition, a decrease (P &lt 0.05) in basal cover was found for grasses in non-defoliated plots for five of nine cases, indicating a negative response to protection from grazing and fire. 
41508760|Although seedling herbivory is an important selective filter in many plant communities, how and why seedlings are selected is poorly understood. Here, we examined the putative role of herbivore olfaction in dictating seedling selection. Using a Y-tube olfactometer we compared snail (Helix aspersa) preference for pellets derived from 14-day-old macerated seedlings of nine European grassland ('Test') species against standard ('Control') pellets derived from lettuce. Snail movement towards 'Test' pellets was strongly correlated with seedling acceptability (Pearson's r = 0.86, P > 0.01) and where snails exhibited a positive choice for the 'Test' species, the choice was made more quickly for highly acceptable species (r = 0.86, P > 0.01). In elucidating a link between seedling acceptability and olfactory response to macerated seedlings, our study suggests that even from an early ontogenetic stage plant selection by snails may be governed by olfactory cues. This finding highlights the need for research on the role of plant volatiles in plant-herbivore interactions to consider more fully interactions operating at the seedling stage.
40305747|The effect of light on different understory plant groups (herbs, ground floor bryophytes, trunkdwelling bryophytes and seedlings) was studied in a deciduousconiferous mixed woodland in Western Hungary. The correlation of cover and species richness in each group and the cover of individual species to relative diffuse light were analyzed at different spatial scales. The study was carried out in 34 forest stands with different tree species composition. The importance of light in determining species composition was investigated by redundancy analysis. Species within each plant group were classified based on their light response. Light was positively correlated with species richness of herbs, cover of ground floor and trunkdwelling bryophytes, and species richness and cover of seedlings. In redundancy analysis, the variance explained by light was 13.0% for herbs, 15.0% for bryophytes and 8.6% for seedlings. Within the group of herbs, species preferring open conditions and light-flexible (gap) species were separated on the basis of the spatial scale of the analysis, while shade-tolerant species were not correlated positively with light. Among bryophytes mainly terricolous, opportunistic and mineral soil-inhabiting species showed significant positive correlations with light, while epiphytic and epixylic species did not respond to light. Seedlings of Quercus petraea and Pinus sylvestris were positively related to light, while most other seedling species were shade-tolerant. In case of vascular plants, the species' correlations with light were in agreement with their light indicator values; however, they were independent in the case of bryophytes. This study proved that the extent and spatial pattern of light influenced strongly the understory plant groups. Species within each group respond to light conditions differently, concerning the strength, direction and spatial scale of the relationships.
40212923|Myricaria laxiflora is an endangered plant that grows in the flood zone along the Yangtze River in the Three Gorges area from 70 m to 155 m above sea level. To understand the spatial distribution patterns of the species and to provide information for developing conservation strategies, we used field surveys to study its seed reproduction and dispersion, and used growth chambers to study seed germination. Results showed that M. laxiflora produced many flowering branches, inflorescences and seeds. Seeds were very small and Output was high although biomass allocation to reproduction was low (-4%). Reproductive allocation was strongly correlated with the biomass of stems and leaves. Seeds were dispersed either by the wind or the river current. Wind-dispersed seeds usually settled within 25 m from parent plants leading to a clumped distribution of individuals in populations. Water-dispersed seeds often landed and established on Strands of firth where the fine Sediment and gentle sloping were available. Seedlings that emerged from water-dispersed seeds were distributed along the water flood line. The life-span of M. laxiflora seeds was about 7 days. Seeds could germinate within 24 h when they absorbed adequate amounts of water. Soil water content was a key factor limiting the establishment ability of M. laxiflora. Experiments showed that the minimum soil water content for germination to occur was 10% on sand or 17% on sandy soil Substrates, and the optimal conditions were on saturated soils. The water content of sandy soils on the riverbank was lower than 10% in autumn, the dry season, and seeds were able to germinate only on sandy beaches that were intermittently inundated by the fluctuating river current. These characteristics of seed dispersal and germination limit the ability for M. laxiflora to expand its distribution. These results provide information essential for the conservation and reintroduction of this endangered species.
20051230|Several studies pointed out soil properties as the prime determinant of cerrado (the Brazilian savanna) physiognomies, and a gradient from "campo cerrado" (a shrub savanna) to "cerrado" (a tall woodland) has been correlated with a soil fertility gradient. Based on this hypothesis, we investigated soil-vegetation relationships in the P-de-Gigante Reserve (So Paulo State, Southeastern Brazil). We randomly distributed 10 quadrats (10  10 m) on each of the following physiognomies: "campo cerrado", "cerrado sensu stricto", "cerrado", and seasonal semideciduous forest, previously defined by the analysis of satellite images (LANDSAT-5). We sampled the woody individuals with stem diameter &gt 3 cm at soil level, identifying their species. In each quadrat, we collected soil samples at the depths of 0-5, 5-25, 40-60, and 80-100 cm, and determined pH, K, Ca, Mg, P, Al, H + Al, base saturation, aluminium saturation, cation exchange capacity, and percentage of sand, clay and loam. Obtained data were submitted to a canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and to a detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). Our results showed a clear distinction between semideciduous forest and the cerrado physiognomies, based in soil parameters. The former was related to higher concentrations of cations and clay in the soil, while the latter was related to higher concentrations of exchangeable aluminium in the soil surface. The three cerrado physiognomies -- "campo cerrado", "cerrado sensu stricto", and "cerrado" -- could not be distinguished considering plant density and the analysed soil features.
20051273|The ecomorphological and phenological study was carried out within a Mediterranean vegetation context, in Quercus suber forests, which have been substituted by shrublands of Cistus spp within two Natural Parks in the south of the Iberian Peninsula. The ecomorphological characters that show meaningful differences between both types of vegetation are: location of renewal buds, spinescence, stratification, maximum height of the vegetation, organs periodically shed, leaf consistency, leaf tomentosity, leaf size, and life duration of leaves, plant duration, vegetative regeneration after fire, main vegetative growth season, main flowering season and fruit type. The phenological phases also help to discern between forest and shrubland, specially flower bud formation, fruiting, seed dispersal, and the existence of brachyblast vegetative growth and brachyblast leaf shedding. We propose three new indexes based on phenological phases: "active period of the species" (APS), "active period of the community" (APC) and "reproductive/vegetative activity of the species" (RVA). The results of their application, in combination with the ecomorphological characters, have proved promising in describing vegetation and in clearly differentiating communities. The results also show the existence of different ecomorphological groups of plants at community level, with consequent ecological, historical, phytocoenological and adaptive implications
20146955|We assessed the effects of habitat fragmentation on reproductive success in natural populations of four forest herbs with differing life-history traits and whose distribution patterns appeared to be negatively affected by decreased habitat size and/or increased isolation: Carex sylvatica, Galium odoratum, Sanicula europaea and Veronica montana. Our aims were to test (1) whether habitat size and isolation are positively correlated with population size and isolation, respectively, (2) whether plant reproductive success, a major component of plant fitness, is reduced in small and/or isolated populations when also accounting for differences in habitat quality (edaphic conditions, light intensity) and the effects of plant size, and (3) whether species with different life histories are affected differently. There were significant positive relationships between habitat and population size and between habitat and population isolation in some, but not all of the species. We mostly found no negative effects of small population size or isolation on reproduction. However, reproductive success was reduced in small populations of Sanicula, and this effect was independent of differences in plant size and environmental conditions. The reduced fecundity in small populations may be a consequence of the Allee-effect, a possible mechanism being pollen limitation. Furthermore, the proportion of flowering ramets was reduced in small and isolated populations of Galium, which may have been caused by changes in population structure. Lastly, we found some evidence for largely outcrossing, non-clonal species to be more sensitive to reductions in population size, at least in terms of their reproductive success.
20146997|Tolerance to grazing is a plant trait that can be adaptive in systems where plants are subjected to a diversity of herbivore attack types. To test the tolerance ability of the clonal sedge Carex bigelowii, which is food plant to several herbivores in alpine and arctic areas, and the potential fitness costs of this tolerance, replicated units of genets were subjected to three levels of damage throughout three consecutive seasons. The three levels of treatment were no damage, light damage and heavy damage, and the damage was conducted by tearing off all plant material at 3 and 0 cm above-ground respectively. The genets had no tolerance under damage in terms of sexual reproduction. In terms of clonal reproduction the genets showed tolerance under light damage but not under heavy damage. However, no fitness cost was found for this tolerance ability, i.e. genets had higher reproduction and growth under no damage. The average ramet weight had a similar decrease under both a low and high damage treatment. Changed partitioning of biomass between plant parts and reduced concentration of total non-structural carbohydrates (TNC) in storage organs are possible mechanisms for the ability to uphold clonal reproduction in response to damage. There were no significant indications that tolerance ability or its fitness cost differed between genets. Our results suggest that when subjected to heavy damage genets will only reproduce vegetatively. Consequently, it seems C. bigelowii has evolved to allocate resources to the survival of an already successful genet rather than to a potential new genet of unknown success.
23267456|Understanding the underlying mechanisms that generate species turnover or beta diversity among bioligical communities is a central theme in ecology. Here, we distinguish the effects of geographic distance and climatic dissimilarity on species turnover of vascular plants in alpine meadow communities on the Tibetan Plateau in China. We calculated species turnover between each pair of 17 sites, using the Jaccard's and Simpson's indices. We selected six variables to quantify climate at each site, and subjected values of the climatic variables to a principal component analysis. We applied a variance partitioning approach to disentangle the effects of geographic distance and climatic dissimilarity on species turnover in alpine meadow communities. We also examined the effect of elevation variation on species turnover. Geographic distance and climate dissimilarity together explained 49.1 % of the variation in compositional difference between alpine meadow communities; the amount of the variation explained purely by geographic distance and purely by climatic dissimilarity was 6.8 % and 2.8 %, respectively. When geographic distance, climate dissimilarity, and elevation difference were included in an analysis, they together explained 55 % of the variation in compositional difference between alpine meadow communities; the pure effect of each of the three sets of explanatory variables was 4.8, 4.3, and 3.5 %, respectively. The fact that the vast majority of the variation explained by geographic distance and climatic dissimilarity cannot be independently attributed to either factor suggests that the two factors operate together in determining regional patterns of species composition in alpine meadows on the Tibetan Plateau.
20051050|We review the ecology and specialized methods required for studying arboreal mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians, and use faunal checklists from 12 tropical wet forest sites and an analysis of all articles published during the past ten years in 14 major journals to assess current knowledge and general research trends for these groups. The percentage of arboreal vertebrates was remarkably similar at the different sites (76.2  3.9%). Birds were the most arboreal group and amphibians and reptiles the least. The review of journals showed that primates were overwhelmingly the most studied group (336 papers), followed by bats (105), passeriform birds (73) and rodents (55). Judging by their portion of the arboreal vertebrate community and the number of papers surveyed, birds and amphibians and reptiles are vastly understudied compared to mammals, but this is largely due to the great number of primate studies. The number of publications on arboreal vertebrates has remained relatively stable over the last 10 years for all taxa except primates, which have seen a growth in publications. Canopy vertebrates from Brazil had by far the most publications (120), followed by Madagascar (61), Costa Rica (55) and Indonesia (42). We conclude by highlighting the priorities we see for future studies on tropical canopy vertebrates.
20050652|An extensive field survey of 282 sites over 500 000 km of rangeland in eastern Australia was carried out to investigate the relationships between cover and floristics of microphytic soil crusts and indices of landscape health. Empirical quadrat-based data were used to calculate three indices of landscape health (soil stability, infiltration capacity and nutrient status) according to the method of Tongway (1994). Analyses were based on a subset of 104 sites from landscapes dominated by red earths and calcareous earths, where the loss of microphytic crust cover is indicative of a loss in soil productive potential. Crust cover and floristics were further compared with an objective but widely used method of assessing rangeland condition based on the use of photostandards. Crust cover was a significant though weak predictor of stability of calcareous earth soils only (P &lt 0.001, R = 0.106). On red earths, cover was a significant descriptor of rangeland condition (P &lt 0.001, R = 0.171). However, overall, the percentage of the soil occupied by soil crusts was regarded a poor predictor of landscape health. Generally, increases in the number of lichen and bryophyte taxa at a site were associated with increasing rangeland condition (P &lt 0.001, R = 0.178), landscape stability (P = 0.047, R= 0.027) and nutrient status (P &lt 0.001, R = 0.115), though these relationships varied according to soil type. Canonical Correspondence Analyses indicated that some lichens and bryophytes were consistently associated with either stable, good condition sites (Xanthoparmelia spp., Catapyrenium lacinulatum, Buellia subcoronata, Aloina bifrons, Riccia lamellosa, Fossombronia spp.) or unstable, poor condition sites (Heterodea beaugleholei, Cladonia spp., Barbula calycina, Bryum spp., Desmatodon convolutus, Eccremidium arcuatum). The majority of taxa however had no strong affinity with the four indices of landscape health. When easily recognisable morphological groups of lichens were related to landscape health indices, the group comprising yellow-green foliose lichens was the most strongly associated with stable, healthy sites. The results suggest that disturbances influencing soil stability and soil surface condition such as trampling and fire are likely to lead to changes in the composition of soil crust communities.
20050938|This investigation of the aquatic macrophyte Eleocharis mutata (L.) Roem. Et Schult. was carried out in Imboassica lagoon, a coastal lagoon in Maca (2250S; 4442W), in the northern part of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The sandbar separating this lagoon from the ocean has been opened several times for flood control and to allow the entrance of marine species of commercial interest. The barrier bar has been breached without appropriate planning, and the consequences of breaching for the lagoon ecosystem are poorly understood. These openings drastically affect the structure and functioning of the lagoon, but there are no data on possible effects on macrophyte communities. In this project, we obtained data on the increase of the distribution, biomass accumulation and production rates of E. mutata in the establishment of a new stand, in an effort to relate effects of sandbar breach events to the expansion of this species. During 22 months of sampling, 4 breachings of the sandbar occurred, and E. mutata increased its area of coverage by about 8  10 m, or 2.5% of the total area of the lagoon. The total aerial biomass reached a maximum of 1515 g DW
41508735|An ideal restoration species for the semiarid Intermountain West, USA would be one that grows rapidly when resources are abundant in the spring, yet tolerates summer's drought. We compared two perennial C, Triticeae Intermountain-native bunchgrasses, the widely occurring Pseudoroegneria spicata and the much less widespread Elymus wawawaiensis, commonly used as a restoration surrogate for P. spicata. Specifically, we evaluated seedlings of multiple populations of each species for biomass production, water use, and morphological and physiological traits that might relate to drought tolerance under three watering frequencies (WFs) in a greenhouse. Shoot biomass of E. wawawaiensis exceeded that of P. spicata regardless of WF. At low WF, E. wawawaiensis displayed 38% greater shoot biomass, 80% greater specific leaf area (SLA), and 32% greater precipitation use efficiency (PUE). One E. wawawaiensis population, E-46, displayed particularly high root biomass and water consumption at high WF. We suggest that such a plant material could be especially effective for restoration of Intermountain rangelands by preempting early-season weeds for spring moisture and also achieving high PUE. Our data explain how E. wawawaiensis has been so successful as a restoration surrogate for P. spicata and highlight the importance of measuring functional traits such as PUE and SLA when characterizing restoration plant materials.
23500338|The assessment of the effects of long-term management practices is relevant in understanding the current patterns of plant assemblages in semi-natural ecosystems. We hypothesized that the variety of management practices across different farming systems under the same ecological conditions directly and indirectly shapes these patterns via the long-term changes induced in soil features. The aims of this paper were to evaluate the influence of two sets of variables describing long-term management practices and soil features on plant assemblages and their importance in the context of Mediterranean silvo-pastoral systems. The analysis of variance revealed that richness and grazing value were not affected at all by grazing livestock species and soil tillage frequency and that they both showed relatively high absolute values for the specific context under study. Trifolium subterraneum was a key species in contributing to grassland grazing value and habitat biodiversity. The Canonical Correspondence Analysis highlighted the influence of management practices and soil features on plant assemblage composition, which was significantly affected by grazing livestock species and stocking rate and by soil pH and K content. The Redundancy Analysis showed that soil pH and related features were in turn affected by stocking rate, supporting our hypothesis that management practices influenced plant assemblage composition directly and indirectly via their long-term effects on soil features. The results also highlighted that a systemic analytical perspective applied at a grazing system scale can be effective in addressing sustainable grassland management issues in Mediterranean silvo-pastoral systems.
20050791|This study investigates the effects of field manipulations of local climate to determine the potential impact of climate change on plant community dynamics in a calcareous grassland. The experimental site is located in a grassland at the Wytham estate, Oxfordshire, UK. The one hectare study area is within a 10 ha abandoned arable field on Jurassic corallian limestone. Two climate change scenarios were used: warmer winters with increased summer rainfall and warmer winters with summer drought. Plant cover and species richness were significantly increased in plots receiving supplemented summer rainfall, while the amount of litter was significantly reduced. Litter formation was significantly increased by winter warming and drought. The responses of the plant community to the climate manipulations were related to the life-history attributes of the dominant species. Seedling recruitment was limited by microsite availability, which also varied in the different climate manipulations. The results are discussed in terms of successional dynamics. They suggest that warmer winters may delay succession, as gap formation in the sward will provide sites for colonisation of annuals, thereby enabling their persistence in the sward. Under wetter conditions during summer, perennial grasses tend to close the sward, thereby inhibiting the establishment of later successional species.
23267468|Heterodichogamy, including protandrous (PA) and protogynous (PG) morphs, is considered a mechanism to avoid selfing and promote disassortative mating. Although morphotypes are usually present in a population at a 1:1 ratio, this ratio may be biased in a low-density population by demographic stochasticity, resulting in a deficiency of mating partners in a neighbourhood dominated by a single morph. In this study, we determined morph ratio of the heterodichogamous tree species, Juglans ailantifolia by observing flowering in a low-density population during 2 years. The morph ratio (PG: PA) of 2.56:1 deviated significantly deviated from 1:1. We genotyped 59 reproductive trees and 405 offspring derived from eight PG-mother and three PA-mother trees with 11 microsatellite markers. Paternity analysis was conducted to clarify the effects of mother morph on the proportion of intra-morph mating. Then, we applied the Bayesian mixed effect mating model (MEMM) to clarify mating system, pollen dispersal, and individual fecundity of PG- and PA-mother trees. We found that the selfing rate and the distance of pollen dispersal were not clearly different between PG- and PA-mother trees. In contrast, the proportion of intra-morph mating was higher in the majority-morph (PG) mother trees than in the minor-morph (PA) mother trees. The MEMM indicated that mean dispersal distance of PG-mother trees was larger than that of PA-mother trees with large variance. Furthermore, we observed individuals with unusually high intra-morph fecundity for majority-morph (PG) trees. These findings indicate that intra-morph mating may occur when majority-morph mothers suffer a deficiency of potential inter-morph mates.
20146382|Seed germination of woody species was studied in treefall gaps in New Zealand to assess how environmental heterogeneity affects regeneration from seed. Gaps were created in a relictual Pinus radiata plantation destined for restoration to native forest. Seeds of the native species Alectryon excelsus, Macropiper excelsum, and Fuchsia excorticata, and the invasive alien species Cytisus scoparius and Berberis darwinii were sown in sites differing in exposure, with and without 3 cm of pine litter. Litter promoted germination of Alectryon and Macropiper, independent of site. Without litter, percent germination of Macropiper was negatively correlated with percent open sky overhead. Germination of Fuchsia was significantly higher in treefall gaps than in the forest understory, with litter having little effect. Cytisus germinated most successfully in sites exposed to direct solar radiation, with or without litter. Percent germination of Berberis was high in all sites, and was consistently promoted by litter. Glasshouse trials for each species showed the same effects of litter cover as found in the field. These results suggest that microenvironmental heterogeneity can be an important influence on the species composition of regenerating vegetation within and around treefall gaps.
20051008|The population structure and spatial pattern of major tree species in a warm-temperate old-growth evergreen broad-leaved forest in the Tatera Forest Reserve of Japan were investigated. All stems  5 cm in diameter at breast height (DBH) were mapped on a 4 ha plot and analyses were made of population structure and the spatial distribution and spatial association of stems in different vertical layers for nine species. This was done in the context of scale dependency. The plot was located on a very gentle slope and 17.1% of its canopy layer was in gaps. It contained 45 woody plant species and 4570 living stems with a basal area of 63.9
20146746|Facilitation is an important process during succession. Legumes often play a significant role as facilitators, particularly in primary succession, enriching the soil with nitrogen (N). The leguminous shrub Lupinus arboreus (Sims) can fix significant N on acidic, nutrient-poor soils. An apparent association between L. arboreus and Urtica dioica (L), which requires high concentrations of soil N and phosphorus (P), suggested that L. arboreus might facilitate colonisation by Urtica of nutrient-poor soils by increasing both soil N and P. I measured significantly higher concentrations of extractable soil P and higher values of soil pH beneath L. arboreus canopy, compared with areas between bushes, occupied by herbaceous vegetation. Litter inputs beneath L. arboreus were more than two and a half times higher in terms of mass of material and P and three times higher in terms of N, than in areas between bushes. This high litter input accounted for the higher soil P concentration and higher pH. It did not lead to higher soil organic matter content however, probably because high nutrient concentration in L. arboreus litter leads to rapid decay. A glasshouse trial showed that Urtica grew poorly on soil collected from areas between bushes of L. arboreus without the addition of supplementary N and P fertiliser, indicting co-limitation, by both N and P. Growth of Urtica on soil from beneath L. arboreus was more than four times higher than on soil from between L. arboreus. Amendment of the latter soil with N significantly increased growth of Urtica, but amendment with P did not, indicating that Urtica growth on this soil was not P limited, even when amended with N. Facilitation of colonisation of this site by Urtica therefore can be attributed to increased soil N and P, derived from litter of L. arboreus. However, in the field Urtica was only found beneath dead and senescent L. arboreus, suggesting a period of inhibition caused by shading, before senescence of L. arboreus allows light penetration to the nutrient-rich soil below.
20146660|Most studies assessing the importance of developmental instability of floral characters for pollinator visits and plant fitness have focused on the fluctuating asymmetry (FA) of the corolla phenotype. The importance of stability process for nectar guide characters that signal floral reward has not been considered in the literature. In principle, flowers with symmetrical guides should be more successful at attracting pollinators, therefore increasing their reproductive success in comparison to asymmetrical flowers. In this paper we test this hypothesis in a population of 171 individuals of the Andean monkey flower, Mimulus luteus in northern Chile. This species shows a conspicuous red spot in the landing yellow petal, which permits assessment of the functional relationship between nectar guide FA and female fitness. Our results did not reveal a significant linear nor nonlinear relationship between nectar guide FA and fitness. This result was consistent after controlling the level of FA by guide and corolla size. Because the corolla of M. luteus did not show evidence of UV wavelength reflectance, our negative result could not be attributable to a confounding effect of UV guides. Even though we can not rule out that nectar guide FA correlates better with male than female fitness, the low fraction of the variance in female fitness accounted for nectar guide FA, suggests that other components of the floral phenotype as well as environmental factors may be more important to predict pollinator preference and reproductive success in this species.
40666616|Much recent research on ecosystem restoration has focused on specific cases, restoration mechanisms, and techniques in the field. However, there has been less emphasis on the theoretical aspects. Here, species richness is considered as an indicator of ecosystem restoration. The dynamic process of ecosystem restoration is put into a coordinate system consisting of species richness s and time t. The factors affecting ecosystem restoration are introduced into the system to develop dynamic models describing the ecosystem restoration process. We propose that the forces controlling the restoration process include ecosystem restoration force (F), disturbance force (F), environmental resistance force (F), resistance force to disturbance (F), and the resultant force F, and develop models for their calculation. These forces are functions of time, climate, species immigration rate, disturbance, species richness, and soil nutrient heterogeneity. Disturbance force (F) and resistance force to disturbance (F) are positively related to species richness. Our models suggest that the velocity differential  of the change in species richness is inversely proportional to species richness and directly proportional to the resultant force F of ecosystem restoration. In the presence of a harmful disturbance, species richness is always lower than maximum species richness s m . The lower the primary richness s o and immigration rate r in ecosystem restoration, the more obvious the logistic characteristics of the curve of the dynamic process. The dynamic models can be used to predict the restoration of species richness and analyze its dynamic mechanism, and assess the potential for ecosystem restoration. This integrated approach provides a new understanding of ecosystem restoration.
40666573|In the present study we analysed whether airborne N pollution may constitute one important driver for the encroachment of Molinia caerulea in dry heathland ecosystems. Based on full-factorial field experiments (in 2006 and 2008) and complementary greenhouse experiments (in 2008), we quantified growth responses of Molinia caerulea to N and P fertilisation (50 kg N ha year, 20 kg P ha year1). Aboveground biomass production of Molinia caerulea was limited by P in 2006, but by N in both experiments in 2008. In the greenhouse experiment, N addition caused a sixfold increase of the biomass of vegetative tillers, and in all experiments the biomass and numbers of flowering tillers showed a significant increase due to fertilisation. Our experiments indicated that growth of Molinia caerulea was primarily limited by N, but in dry heaths the kind of nutrient limitation may be mediated by other factors such as water availability during the vegetative period. Shifts in biomass allocation patterns resulting from N fertilisation showed that Molinia caerulea encroachment in dry heaths is not only attributable to increased leaf biomass, but also due to higher investments in reproductive tissue that allow for increased seed production and thus accelerated encroachment of seedlings in places where the dwarf shrub canopy has been opened after disturbance.
20146641|Because isolated trees in pasture experience greater exposure than forest trees, the epiphytes on them should be more drought and sun-tolerant. In Veracruz, Mexico, we compared the structure and nutrient content of the epiphyte community on five forest oaks (FO) in a fragment of lower montane cloud forest to that of five isolated oaks in pasture (IO). IO supported fewer epiphyte species than FO; 62.8% of the 35 epiphyte species were recorded only in one habitat (51.4% on FO and 11.4% on IO). Polypodium plebeium and Tillandsia spp. seedlings were more abundant on FO, while T. kirchhoffiana and T. punctulata were more abundant on IO. Evenness was lower on IO, which supported higher epiphyte biomass. pH, Ca, Mg, N, K, and Na concentrations were similar for FO and IO, with only
40305504|Old World Bluestems (OWB), introduced from Europe and Asia in the 1920s, recently have begun to raise concerns in the Great Plains. Despite suggestion in the late 1950s that OWB were weedy and negatively impacted biological diversity, they were widely introduced throughout the Great Plains for agricultural purposes. Anecdotal evidence suggests that OWB exhibit invasive characteristics that promote competitive exclusion of native species. The objective of our study was to quantify the competitive abilities of two OWB species (Caucasian bluestem; Bothriochloa bladhii (Retz.) S. T. Blake (= Bothriochloa caucasica (Trin.) C. E. Hubb.) and yellow bluestem; Bothriochloa ischaemum (L.) Keng) with three native grass species (big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman), little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash), and sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx.) Torr.)). A greenhouse target-neighbor study was conducted to assess both interspecific and intraspecific competition. A total of 480 pots (4.4 1) filled with native soil was used with all pair-wise combinations of species and four density treatments (six replications). Vegetative tiller height, above-and belowground biomass were measured at the end of 16 weeks. Both of the OWB significantly inhibited at least one growth parameter of the three native grass species, while most of the native species did not inhibit growth of either OWB species. Growth of B. ischaemum was enhanced when grown in association with 5. scoparium. Based upon the results of our study of OWB competitive superiority and previous research, many of the characteristics possessed by OWB are found to be in common with known invasive species. Hence, we propose that two OWB are competitively superior to three common native prairie species providing them with the ability to invade and threaten the native grasslands of the Central and Southern Great Plains.
41508797|Tropical premontane forests between 700 and 1,400 m.a.s.1. represent a particular component of the gamma diversity of neotropical ecosystems; however, the extent of information about their dynamics lags behind the more studied lowland rain forests. Data from three 1-ha permanent plots in a premontane forest in Costa Rica collected during an 11-year period (1998-2009) suggested a high tree turnover rate for this ecosystem (high mortality rate,  = 2.4% and annual recruitment,  = 2.6%). The floristic composition did not significantly change during the study period, but its high dynamism (2.4%) exceeded that of several reported values from highly diverse neotropical lowland rain forests. The documented decrease in abundance (8.6%) and basal area (14.3%) of trees 10 cm in DBH differs from the general trend of increase described for several lowland tropical rain forests in recent decades. We detected a significant population reduction (>15% of individuals from 1998 to 2009) in several relatively abundant tree species, whereas the populations of the three most dominant species remained nearly constant. The high tree turnover recorded for this premontane forest might not have affected tree diversity; but it might be promoting recruitment and growth of some tree species that may eventually become over-dominant in this ecosystem.
40212974|Although herbivores often have a negative impact on plant fitness, sometimes plants may benefit from their consumers. However, these positive interactions usually occur as a result of plant damage (e. g., overcompensation, defense induction). I present evidence of a novel way by which plants may benefit from their consumers without being eaten. Plants of Carduus nutans increased their physical defenses when grown in external refuse dumps of the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex lobicornis. Seedlings planted in refuse exhibited longer spines and tougher leaves than those planted in control soils. Pick-up assays with entire leaves and leaf discs demonstrated that these enhanced physical defenses prevented leaf- cutting ant harvest. Additionally, plants established in refuse dumps showed fewer insect herbivory than those in non-nest soils. The nutrient-rich refuse dump appeared to reduce the stage at which leaves are tender and thus more vulnerable to herbivory. This is the first case where plants may benefit from insect herbivores via waste products without the cost of being eaten. This illustrates how plants may plastically respond to reliable cues of the risk of herbivory.
41686813|It is unclear whether annual ring widths (ARW) are good predictors of changes in net primary productivity (NPP) of trees or shrubs in cold environments. We test if the simulated NPP with inputs of observed leaf nitrogen concentration (N mass ) and carbon isotope ratio (C) explains altitudinal variations of ARW, relative growth rate (RGR), and maximum photosynthetic rate (P max ) within a widespread woody species at moist timberline ecotones. We measured plant-level ARW and RGR, and related leaf traits (P max , N mass , C etc.) for an alpine Rhododendron shrub (R. aganniphum var. schizopeplum) across ten altitudes (4,190-4,500 m) in the Sergyemla Mountains, southeast Tibet. Based on climate data available from Nyingchi station at 3,000 m, non-age-related ARW chronologies (1960-2008) for each of ten altitudes were positively correlated with June mean temperature, but related little with precipitation and other monthly mean temperatures. With increasing altitude, N mass and P max decreased and C increased, resulting in decreases of observed RGR and simulated NPP. Current-year and recent 50-year-averaged ARWs were well correlated with observed RGR and P max and simulated NPP. June mean temperature explained > 62 % of the altitudinal variations in observed RGR and ARW as well as simulated NPP. At moist high altitudes, ARWs can be used as predictors of changes in NPP of alpine shrubs because the low temperature in the early growing season is the primary factor limiting both ARW and NPP. This study suggests a methodology detecting the sensitivity of alpine woody species to varying climatic conditions.
20050701|The independent and interactive effects of light and simulated herbivory on growth and biomass allocation in the endangered emergent sedge, Scirpus ancistrochaetus Schuyler, were examined in a 15-week common garden experiment. Light level was manipulated through the use of shade cloth to attain shading levels of 0%, 30%, 63% and 90%, while herbivory was simulated by reducing plant height by 50% six weeks into the experiment. Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) of final total (shoot + root) plant mass, leaf width and root to shoot ratio (R:S) indicated overall significant effects of both light and the interaction of light and clipping. Means of these variables decreased with decreasing light level. Furthermore, means of these variables were generally higher for clipped plants than unclipped plants in 0% shade, while they tended to be lower in clipped plants in all other levels of shade. Maximum leaf height was also significantly affected by light. Leaf height was similar in all treatments for the first 11 weeks. For the last four weeks of the experiment, however, leaf height was lowest in plants grown in 0% shade, highest in plants grown in 63 and 90% shade, and intermediate in plants grown in 30% shade. Clipped plants tended to be taller than unclipped plants at lower levels of shade, while the opposite was true at higher levels of shade, although effects were marginally significant. Both light and the interactive effect of light and clipping were important determinants of growth of S. ancistrochaetus in this experiment and therefore may be important influences on its distribution within and among pond habitats.
41508709|The aim of this study was to analyse and quantify the effects of the canopy of the nativeinvasive N-fixer woody shrub Retama monosperma in the dune ecosystem, affecting the structure and function of the dune environment as well as plant community, in the context of the facilitation mechanism. Air temperature and relative humidity; soil pH, electric conductivity, organic matter (OM) and nutrient content; above and below-ground vegetation biomass, litter mass, species richness and Shannon diversity were determined and compared from sampling plots below the R. monosperma canopy and in canopy gaps within a coastal dune system in SW Spain. The relationships between soil OM and nutrient contents and above and below-ground vegetation biomass, litter mass, species richness and Shannon diversity were also assessed. A predominance of positive interactions was confirmed. The canopy of R. monosperma ameliorated temperature extremes beneath, and soil OM and nutrient concentrations were increased by 188-466%, compared to those found in gaps. Plant biomass increased by 442% beneath the canopy and was composed almost exclusively of herbaceous annuals. Plant diversity was not affected. Plant communities were clearly structured as fertility islands, distributed in an environmentally stressful dune matrix characterized by scarce vegetation cover and low biomass.
20050918|Native populations of perennial grasses subjected to heavy grazing are typically shorter and more prostrate than ungrazed or lightly defoliated ones. However, it is often difficult to find out whether the morphological modifications are the result of genetic differentiation or phenotypic plasticity. Piptochaetium napostaense (Speg.) Hack. is a native perennial cool-season palatable grass with a dwarf form abundant in the areas subjected to heavy grazing. In this study, we tried to determine whether the populations with different grazing histories are genetically differentiated. We considered three different grazing conditions: enclosure (prevented from grazing during 20 years), livestock grazing, and burrow (heavily grazed by cattle and a wild rodent herbivore, the vizcacha). Isozyme analyses were carried out in order to assess the genetic variability of the populations under study. We further studied the progeny of plants with different grazing histories to determine whether the morphological differences are transmitted to the next generation. Seedlings obtained from seeds belonging to enclosure and burrow were grown in the greenhouse and their vegetative and reproductive response under different water and nutrient availability levels were recorded. From the isozymes analyses we found low levels of genetic variation in the populations studied, with an average of 20.5% polymorphic loci, 1.2 alleles per locus and 0.015 mean expected heterozygosity. From the total genetic diversity, only 1.4% was due to differences among population. In addition, either enclosure or burrow populations had the same growth and reproductive response over treatments differing in water and nutrient levels. The morphological differentiation among plants with different grazing histories appears to be the outcome of a phenotypically plastic response of adapted genotypes.
40305607|Increasing anthropic pressure is making forest fires more frequent in the Mediterranean Basin and therefore affecting the response of native flora and fauna. Two large fires occurred in summer, 1994, in the Southeastern Iberian Peninsula. Aleppo pine, the main tree species, regenerated naturally after the fire. In this study we are interested in strategies for maximizing Aleppo pine tree recovery and conservation of its ecosystem. We performed thinning and pruning in the pine tree stands 5 and 10 years after the fire and took measurements on structural patterns and plant diversity using several indices. In addition, we measured macro-lichen and faunal diversity indirectly. Results show significant differences between treated-burned plots and untreatedunburned plots. The plots thinned 10 years after the fire and the unburned plots (mature stands) showed a regular, non-aggregated distribution and a low diameter differentiation. Also, these plots showed similar plant diversity values. The silvicultural treatments did not significantly affect the fauna and lichen index values. The high intensity of thinning and late pruning applied to young Aleppo pine stands improved the structural pattern and plant diversity.
20146946|The mycorrhizal status of several representative shrub species (Lavandula spp. and Thymus satureioides) in Moroccan semiarid ecosystems, was evaluated as well as their contribution to the mycorrhizal potential of the soil. Furthermore, the rhizosphere soils collected under these target species were tested for their influence on the growth of Cupressus atlantica, a tree species whose natural stands has declined in this area. Soil samples were collected from the rhizosphere of L. stoechas, L. dentata and of C. atlantica existing in the experimental area. Control samples were randomly collected from bare soil sites, away from plant influence. All the target species formed AM symbiosis and the extent of AM fungal colonization was not significantly different between plant species. No significant difference was detected between the total number of AM fungal spores of the bare soil and those recorded in the root zones of target species and C. atlantica. Three genera of AM fungi (Scutellospora, Glomus and Acaulospora) were present in the rhizospheres of the plant species and in the bare soil. The number of mycorrhizal propagules in soil originating from around the four target plant species was significantly higher than the one in the bare soil (Figure 1). The most probable number (MPN) of mycorrhizal propagules per 100 g of dry soil ranged from 7.82 (bare soil) to 179.7 (L. dentata and C. atlantica) and 244.5 (L. stoechas and T. satureioides). As the total number of spores was not different for the soil of different origins, the increase of the mycorrhizal soil infectivity (MSI) mainly resulted from larger AM mycelial networks that constituted the main source of AM fungal inoculum. In addition, this MSI enhancement was linked with changes in the functioning of soil microbial communities. In a glasshouse experiment, the growth of C. atlantica seedlings was significantly higher in the C. atlantica and in the shrub species soils than in the bare soil. Although the AM inoculum potential is not sufficient to ensure the development of forest trees in Mediterranean ecosystems, the use of plant nurses such as T. satureioides or Lavandula spp. could be of great interest to restore a self-sustaining vegetation cover to act against desertification.
23267481|Urbanization is one of the most environmentally damaging of human activities, producing large alterations in ecosystem structure, function, species composition and interactions. In this study, we performed a systematic investigation of the plant species richness and density in the city of Beijing, China. We also assessed which socio-economic factors have most influence on plant diversity. Within the city, we found 551 plant species of 313 genera and 103 families, of which 118 were trees, 99 shrubs, and 296 herbs. Nearly half (48.3 %) of the total plant species were aliens. Species richness and density were positively correlated both for tree/shrub and herb taxa, which indicate that although some species predominate in our study area, there is an important array of species in relation to their densities. As expected, most of the socio-economic variables studied showed to be related to at least one of the four plant diversity variables (i.e., herb richness, herb density, tree/shrub richness, and tree/shrub density). Land-use showed a significant relationship in all four cases, which generally had lower values in cultural and education areas (areas that in Beijing are generally characterized by large extensions of urbanized land). The year of establishment was also largely related to plant diversity, with higher values for recently developed areas. This was an expected result given the dynamics of the urban development of Beijing during the last 60 years, which consisted of intense urban sprawling, followed by more environmentally-friendly urbanization practices during the 2000s related to the greening of the city for the olympic games. This dynamics also explained the negative relationship found between the distance to the city center and both tree/shrub species richness and density.
40212924|We explored two mutually nonexclusive hypotheses on autumnal leaf colouration. The co-evolutionary hypothesis states that autumnal leaf colouration functions as a handicap signal to herbivorous insects, whereas the photoprotection hypothesis posits that plant pigments primarily protect the plant against cold-induced photoinhibition and enhance nutrient transfer. To contrast both hypotheses, we compared yellow and red leaf colouration in three groups of mountain ash (Sorbus aucuparia L.). Two montane groups of different age were characterised by low aphid numbers and low temperature, and a lowland group by high aphid numbers and high temperature. There were no consistent altitudinal differences in leaf colouration. Compared to young trees, adult trees developed fewer red but more yellow leaves at high altitude. In the lowland population, the development of red leaf colour was related to decreasing daytime temperature, whereas the appearance of yellow leaf colouration corresponded to the decreasing photoperiod. This is consistent with the photoprotection hypothesis. Individual differences in red and yellow leaf colouration were inversely correlated to the number of fruits, which might be interpreted as a trade-off between reproductive and protective commitment. Temperature effects explained Variation in aphid numbers over time and leaf colouration explained aphid distribution on a given day. As predicted by the co-evolutionary hypothesis, strongly coloured individuals harboured fewer aphids than green or dull-coloured ones. Since decreasing temperature reduced the number of migrating aphids but induced red leaf colouration, these processes are not mutually fine-tuned, which likely restricts the potential for co-evolution between mountain ash and aphids.
20051057|Some recent experimental and theoretical developments in research related to tropical forest canopies are reviewed. Deuterium tracing studies in India, which rely on the collection of samples of transpired water from leaves in the canopy, have established the importance of 'tree size' as an index of whole tree transpiration and the use of leaf area, basal area and sapwood area for scaling transpiration from the tree to plot scale is discussed. Experimental studies of the interception loss from tropical trees in Indonesia, India and Sri Lanka have established that conventional interception models of the Rutter type, although adequate for use in temperate climates, are entirely inappropriate for use in the tropics. It is now recognised that the failure of this approach is due to neglect of the process of drop size dependent canopy wetting. The use of rainfall simulators and optical disdrometers in the tropics has demonstrated that to achieve the same degree of canopy wetting upwards of ten times the depth of rainfall may be required for high intensity tropical storms (with large drop sizes) as compared with low intensity, frontal rainfall systems, common in temperate climates. Rainfall simulator studies have also demonstrated that the final degree of wetting is also reduced when vegetation is wetted with drops of large size. These studies have also demonstrated that the drop size of secondary drops falling from vegetation is dependent on the vegetation type and is very much greater for large leafed species such as Tectona grandis as compared with species such as Pinus caribaea with smaller needle formed leaves. The combination, in the tropics, of large drop sizes in the primary rainfall and large drop sizes in secondary drops falling from vegetation helps to explain why in absolute and relative terms interception loss from tropical trees is less than that in temperate climates. The recognition that drop size generation is related to vegetation type has important implications for splash induced erosion and the choice of tree species on soils subject to erosion. Knowledge of forest canopy processes is now leading to a better appreciation of the hydrological, meteorological and water resource impacts of forests. The impact of trees in Amazonia and the Sahel on climate and trees in the Zambezi basin on water resources is discussed. New spatially distributed modelling methods which are being incorporated within Decision Support Systems for forest and water resource management, which also take account of ecological and socio-economic objectives, are also outlined.
20146681|The heterogeneity of xerophytic vegetation developing on limestone outcrops immersed in a tropical deciduous forest matrix was studied in Nizanda (S Mxico). The study units comprised three clearly distinct communities based on their physiognomy and substrate, representing a gradient of edaphic aridity: (1) xerophytic scrub (XS); (2) tropical deciduous forest on rock (TDFr); and (3) tropical deciduous forest on deeper soil (TDFs). Structural and floristic variables were gathered in nine 100 m plots by community. In the 0.27 ha sampled 211 plant species were recorded. Total floristic richness by community decreased with increasing edaphic aridity: 159 species in TDFs, 107 in TDFr, and 36 in XS. Although significant differences were observed between the three communities for only four structural variables (total and upper stratum species densities, and relative monocotyledon density and cover), other variables confirmed the differences between the two forest communities and the XS (total and upper stratum cover, density, and basal area). TDFr and XS also differed from TDFs with respect to lower stratum species density, and absolute monocotyledon density and cover. The results showed the importance of monocotyledons and the prevalence of clonality in TDFr and XS. A comparison between limestone out-crop and inselberg vegetation indicated a virtual absence of therophytes, graminoid herbs, cryptogamic crusts, and desiccation-tolerant and carnivorous plants in the former, whereas the prevalence of monocotyledon mats, and xerophytic and succulent plants is the most striking similarity between these rocky environments. Xerophytic vegetation of limestone outcrops in Nizanda may be seen as analogous of relictual communities that existed during a northbound migration of Neotropical flora, towards the arid zones of North America.
41508845|Ecological risk assessments for grass species with novel traits are advisable, or required, in order to identify potential environmental harms prior to large-scale cultivation. Credible risk assessments are built upon knowledge of the communities that could be negatively affected by crop-to-wild gene flow, new weeds, or invasive plants. This study focused on two cultivated grasses with different life histories: the exotic, weedy Agrostis stolonifera (creeping bentgrass) and the native Panicum virgatum (switchgrass). Vascular plant communities were analyzed in 190 transects (50 m) in ten habitat types across two ecoregions (inland and coastal) in the northeastern U.S. Ordination plots and dendrogram analysis showed clustering of inland plant community assemblages within habitat types, while coastal plant communities were similar across the habitats studied. Agrostis and Panicum species had unequal distribution across the habitat types and ecoregions. Agrostis species were more common in the inland ecoregion and habitats receiving moderate management or disturbance events. In both ecoregions, A. stolonifera had high co-occurrence values with other exotic Agrostis species, suggesting potential for interspecific gene flow. P. virgatum was most common in inland roadside and wasteland habitats, but was distributed equally in the three coastal habitats. Co-occurrence between P. virgatum and congenerics was infrequent, although one transect had both P. virgatum and the state-listed coastal species Panicum amarum. This is the first study to characterize Agrostis and Panicum plant communities and distribution providing the basis for ecological risk assessments, coexistencestrategies, and geographic exclusion zones.
40305714|Factors determining changes in species composition of arable field weed vegetation in the northeastern part of the Czech Republic were studied. Gradsect sampling, i.e. a priori stratified selection of sampling sites, was used for the field research. Using this method, a data set of 174 vegetation plots, covering a whole range of basic environmental characteristics in the study area, was compiled in 2001-2003. A set of environmental variables (altitude, annual precipitation, mean annual temperature, soil type, soil pH and crop type) together with date of sampling was obtained for each plot. Ordination methods were used to determine the effects of variables on arable weed composition. For each variable, the gross and net effect on weed species composition were calculated. All variables considered in this study had a significant effect on weed species composition and explained 7.25% of the total variation in species data. Major changes in weed species composition in the study area were associated with different crop types. The second most important gradient in the variability of weed vegetation in the study area was associated with altitudinal and climatic changes followed by seasonal changes and different soil types and pH. Our results show that on a regional scale, the relative importance of different crop types and their associated management on changes in arable weed species composition is higher than the relative importance of climatic variables. The relative importance of climatic variables decreases with their decreasing length of gradient.
20050597|The present-day Rhine alluvial hardwood forest (Querco-Ulmetum minoris, Issler 24) in the upper Rhine valley (France/Germany) is comprised of three vegetation units, one still flooded by calm waters (F) and the two others unflooded, one for 30 years (UF30) (after the river canalisation) and the other for about 130 years (UF130) (after river straightening and embankment work in the middle nineteenth century). In the three stands, species composition, structure and diversity of vegetation and nutrient content of mature leaf, leaf litter and soil have been studied. Fungi (Macromycetae) were only studied in two stands (F and UF130). The intensity of nutrient recycling was exemplified by comparing the chemical composition of rainwater, flood, throughfall, mature leaf, leaf litter, soil and groundwater in two of these stands (F and UF30). The elimination of floods has caused a change in floristic composition, tree density and plant diversity. Tree density was higher in the two unflooded stands and was related to a large increase in sapling (&lt 6 cm dbh) density more than to a change of stem (&gt 6 cm dbh) density. Sapling density increased 2 times and three times in the UF30 and the UF130 respectively, whereas the stem density increased only 12% in the first stand and decreased 29% in the second one. The saprophytic macromycete communities have been supplemented with mycorrhizal species. Leaf litter production was slightly greater in the flooded (
20050587|The escape of beech seeds from seed predators and winter desiccation due to snow accumulation was studied by comparing two sites in Japan: one site that experiences much snow and another site that experiences less snow cover. At the site with greater snow cover, about 70% of the beech seeds escaped seed predation by rodents during winter and about 70% of surviving seeds germinated successfully in spring. At the site with less snow cover, however, all of the beech seeds were eaten by rodents, and all seeds that were protected from feeding were killed by winter desiccation. We confirmed that snow prevents beech seeds from predation by rodents because it conceals their sight and scent. These effects are one of the main reasons why beeches in snowy areas regenerate constantly and those in less snowy areas do not.
20050425|The effects of solar UV-B radiation, in combination with elevated temperature (4 C) and CO (680
20146733|In a case-study from Colombian Amazonia, species information from ferns and Melastomataceae was used to explain the compositional patterns of other vascular plant species in 40 widely distributed 0.1-ha plots. Canonical correspondence analysis was applied to regress vascular plant species composition in the forests against information from these two indicator groups (summarized as axes of principal coordinate analyses), together with that from soils, landscape, and the spatial sampling design. In total, 53,941 individuals of 2480 vascular plant species were recorded. Of these, 17,473 individuals and 132 species were from ferns and Melastomataceae. In 19 well-drained upland (tierra firme) plots 19,622 vascular plant individuals and 1716 species were found, with 3793 plants and 91 species from ferns and Melastomataceae. In both the set of all landscapes and the subset of tierra firme forests the principal PCoA axes of the two indicator groups were highly related to the main patterns of forest species composition. In principle, therefore, ferns and Melastomataceae can be used to detect and forecast changes in the forest composition of the study area. However, evidence was not obtained that ferns and Melastomataceae show more potential to predict the main patterns in species composition of forests than soil, landscape, and spatial variables. The partioning of the total variation in forest composition showed that the correlation of ferns and Melastomataceae with other forest plants was quite independent from that of soil, landscape, and space. Direct effects of ferns and Melastomataceae on other plants might be obtained from experimental studies of between-plant interactions, concentrating on the seedling or juvenile stages of trees and lianas, both above-ground as well as in the rooting environment.
40305420|The present paper discusses water level fluctuations in different parts of boreal mire complexes (eleven localities), mainly aapa mire complexes, on the basis of measurements performed by means of shallow observation wells and a few deeper observation tubes (piezometers) in the coastal half of the southern aapa mire zone in Finland. The sites represented intact vegetation from 12 different habitat types (communities), which were divided a priori into habitats with a stable surface moisture status (stable habitats) and into habitats with an unstable surface moisture status (unstable habitats). In stable habitats water level fluctuations took place according to the acrotelm-catotelm model, but the unstable habitats clearly deviated from the general pattern: water level fluctuations in them were not at all concentrated to the surficial, porous peat layer. Direct gradient analysis was used for arranging the communities along the water level fluctuation gradient. Variability of the water table, using 80% amplitude of water table residence, was used for the arrangement. The gradient was split into three groups: (1) habitats with a slightly fluctuating water table, (2) habitats with a considerably fluctuating water table and (3) habitats with an extremely fluctuating water table. The last group nearly corresponded to aro wetlands, and represented a very special habitat type. Indirect gradient analysis (NMDS ordination) also revealed the water level fluctuation gradient along with the gradient of traditional water level categories. According to the results of direct and indirect gradient analysis, the water level fluctuation seems to be an independent and important vegetation gradient. In peatlands, it occurs alongside with the traditional gradient of water level categories reflecting the mean water table. The responses of species to the range of water level fluctuations seem to reflect their tolerance to disturbances and evidently to seasonal drought. Most Sphagnum species are absent or in poor condition in habitats with extremely fluctuating water table. Vascular plant species that experienced most extreme water level fluctuations (Carex nigra, Juncus filiformis) have earlier been regarded as disturbance indicators. In addition, the difference between the piezometric water level and simultaneously measured water table depth reached the highest values within the habitats of those species (i.e., within Polytrichum commune aro wetlands) showing the downward direction of water movement in sandy mineral soil.
20051122|The relationship between succession and tropical forest diversity has been much debated. A fundamental dis-agreement hinges on whether high local species richness is a transient successional property, albeit one that can be maintained by disturbance, or is rather a property of stable late successional communities. This paper addresses this controversy employing a series of long-term permanent sample plot data spanning seven decades. W.J. Eggeling studied the vegetation of Budongo Forest, Uganda during the 1930s and 1940s. He described a series of ten plots (1.4 and 1.86 ha) as a successional progression of forest types in which tree species numbers show a unimodal rise-and-fall over time -- a pattern best known from Connell's illustration of his intermediate disturbance hypothesis. Tree communities in five of the original plots have been intermittently re-assessed over the subsequent decades. One data-series provides observations spanning 54-years from one intact 'undisturbed' old-growth forest plot. The remaining four plots were assessed before and after controlled disturbances (tree poisoning) executed in the late 1950s and early 1960s, and the resulting data-series span c. 20 years of pre-disturbance and c.35 years of post-disturbance changes. The unimodal pattern of species-richness in the original comparative plot-series is paralleled by a similar rise-and-fall in stem-densities, but rarefaction confirms that the unimodal pattern in richness also holds for fixed stem-counts. The proportion of species occurring in both large and small stem-size-classes increases across the series. As richness declines in later succession, low abundance species occur predominantly in larger stem-sizes. All time-series show a rise in species richness ranging from 12 to 177%
20146413|This study examined whether the patch distribution of four plant species Agrimonia eupatoria, Carlina vulgaris, Hypochoeris maculata and Plantago media were affected by dispersal limitation. Analysis of the patch size/isolation relationship was combined with a seed sowing experiment examining the recruitment of the species. Patch size was negatively correlated to isolation in Carlina, Hypochoeris and indicating that dispersal processes might affect the distribution pattern. Patch size of Agrimonia was not correlated, or in one case positively correlated, to isolation. Agrimonia was also the only species among the four where the recruitment not was affected by disturbance treatment or locality. The recruitment of Carlina, Hypochoeris and Plantago was higher in disturbed plots compared to undisturbed, and the latter two species were also affected by locality. This suggests that Agrimonia is less sensitive to isolation (and the ongoing fragmentation of the landscape) compared to the other three species, probably due to better dispersal and recruitment ability. We conclude in a discussion how different management strategies could serve to maintain viable populations of these species.
20050865|Historically, Pterocarpus officinalis Jacq. (Leguminoseae) dominated freshwater wetlands in the coastal plains of Puerto Rico, but deforestation has reduced its distribution to small patches adjacent to mangrove forests in areas of higher salinity. The objective of this study was to determine how a gradient in soil salinity affected litter, flower, and fruit production in a Pterocarpus officinalis. Three 100 m plots were established in each of three sites along a salinity gradient: pasture/Pterocarpus edge (low salinity, mean salinity at 60 cm-9.7 g
20146984| Lianas (woody vines) contribute substantially to the diversity and structure of most tropical forests, yet little is known about the importance of habitat specialization in maintaining tropical liana diversity and the causes of variation among forests in liana abundance and species composition. We examined habitat associations, species diversity, species composition, and community structure of lianas at Sepilok Forest Reserve, Sabah, Malaysia in northeastern Borneo among three soil types that give rise to three distinct forest types of lowland tropical rain forest: alluvial, sandstone hill, and kerangas (heath) forest. Alluvial soils are more nutrient rich and have higher soil moisture than sandstone soils, whereas kerangas soils are the most nutrient poor and drought prone. Lianas 0.5-cm in diameter were measured, tagged, and identified to species in three square 0.25-ha plots in each forest type. The number of lianas 0.5 cm did not differ significantly among forest types and averaged 1348 lianas ha, but mean liana stem diameter, basal area, estimated biomass, species richness, and Fisher's  diversity index well all greater for plots in alluvial than sandstone or kerangas forests. Liana species composition also differed greatly among the three habitats, with 71% of species showing significant positive or negative habitat associations. Sandstone forests were intermediate to alluvial and kerangas forests in most aspects of liana community structure and composition, and fewer species showed significant habitat associations with this forest type. Ranking of forest types with respect to liana density, biomass, and diversity matches the ranking in soil fertility and water availability (alluvial &gt sandstone hill &gt kerangas). These results suggest that edaphic factors play an important role in maintaining liana species diversity and structuring liana communities. 
20050762|Genotypic structure of a closed population of the clonal ericaceous shrub Rhododendron ferrugineum is examined in the light of two independent studies previously conducted on this species. In the first study, spatial distribution of genotypes in the closed population was inferred from the amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) procedure. Age of clones was estimated using their spatial extent and the annual growth rate of shoots. In the second study, ramet demography was studied in the three most representative stages of shrub invasion on two different sites, including the site where the population investigated by AFLP grew. The demographic data recorded were the area occupied by ramets and ramet age, and from this information the developmental pattern of Rhododendron populations was determined. Additional data such as genet density and distance between genets were calculated. These two sources of information allow us to propose that all or most of the clones detected in the closed population established at the early successional stage, and that the present genotypic structure was established several hundred years ago, long before the population reached total closure. Hypotheses concerning the future development of this genotypic structure are discussed.
20051104|Species distribution and abundance patterns in the southern Cascades are influenced by both environmental gradients and fire regimes. Little is known about fire regimes and variation in fire regimes may not be independent of environmental gradients or vegetation patterns. In this study, we analyze variation in fire regime parameters (i.e., return interval, season, size, severity, and rotation period) with respect to forest composition, evevation, and potential soil moisture in a 2042 ha area of montane forest in the southern Cascades in the Thousand Lakes Wilderness (TLW). Fire regime parameters varied with forest composition, elevation, and potential soil moisture. Median composite and point fire return intervals were shorter (4-9 yr, 14-24 yr) in low elevation and more xeric white fir (Abies concolor)-sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana) and white fir-Jeffrey pine (P. jeffreyi) and longest (20-37 yr, 20-47 yr) in mesic high elevation lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) and red fir (Abies magnifica)-mountain hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana) forests. Values for mid-elevation red fir-white fir forests were intermediate. The pattern for fire rotation lengths across gradients was the same as for fire return intervals. The percentage of fires that occurred during the growing season was inversely related to elevation and potential soil moisture. Mean fire sizes were larger in lodgepole pine forests (405 ha) than in other forest groups (103-151 ha). In contrast to other parameters, fire severity did not vary across environmental and compositional gradients and &gt50% of all forests burned at high severity with most of the remainder burning at moderate severity. Since 1905, fire regimes have become similar at all gradient positions because of a policy of suppressing fire and fire regime modification will lead to shifts in landscape scale vegetation patterns.
41508684|The assumption that ecosystems with similar emergent properties consist of similar functional groupings of plant species is tested by comparing three peatlands from different bioregions across South Africa. They are Mfabeni Swamp in the subtropical coastal region, Wakkerstroom on the inland plateau, and Goukou wetland in the Winter Rainfall region of the Western Cape. In each of the three peatlands, about 400 small vegetation plots have been made from which the abundance of each species per wetland can be assessed. The most dominant species in these plots have been investigated for 17 traits. The functional composition of the vegetation types has been compared across the three peatlands and Functional Diversity has been calculated, taking the dominance of each species into account. One peatland differed greatly from the other two, since the dominant species was of a functional type ("Palmiet/woody sedge") that was very divergent from any other peatland species found in the study. This functional type can be considered an ecosystem engineer and the effects that this functional type has on the ecosystem results in the occurrence of many other functional types that do not occur in the other peatlands. When we consider emergent traits of an ecosystem as a function of all the plant functional traits that occur in that ecosystem, then peatlands can be regarded as a heterogeneous group of ecosystems. Even if emergent properties such as peat formation are similar between ecosystems, those ecosystems may still consist of very different functional groups. Ecosystem engineers have an impact on the final functional composition of an ecosystem and the degree in which ecosystem engineering plays a role in peatlands differs between different peatlands.
20050427|An experiment is described which studies the effects of enhanced UV-B radiation (simulating a 15% reduction in the Ozone layer) and elevated atmospheric concentrations of CO (600 ppm) on the dwarf shrub layer of a sub-arctic forest heath ecosystem at Abisko, North Sweden. The experimental treatments were first applied in 1993, and have covered most of the snow-free season (late May to early September) 1993-1995. Effects of the treatments on the four dwarf shrub species have been recorded largely using non-destructive measures (Vaccinium uliginosum, Vaccinium myrtillus -- deciduous species and Vaccinium vitis-idaea and Empetrum hermaphroditum -- evergreen species). Effects of the treatments on stem growth and leaf thickness have so far been small, although CO treatments initially stimulated stem extension in Vaccinium myrtillus 1993 and depressed growth in V. vitis idaea in 1994 and E. hermaphroditum during 1995. UV-B treatments stimulated fruit production in V. myrtillus in both 1994 and 1995, but there was no effect on reproductive phenology. There were also marked effects of UV-B treatments on insect herbivory in the deciduous dwarf shrubs; with leaf area loss being greater than the control in the UV-B treatment in V. myrtillus and less in V. uliginosum. The results point to the possibility of important effects of the treatments on physiological and chemical processes within the plants. The ecological results of such effects may not be immediately apparent, but may be far reaching, pointing to the need for long-term in situ experimentation in predicting the effects of these global change variables.
23362419|Postfire vegetation regeneration in many fire-prone ecosystems is soil seed bank dependent. Although vegetation and seed bank may be spatially structured, the role of prefire vegetation patterns and fire in determining postfire vegetation patterns is poorly known. Here, we investigated the spatial patterning of species abundance and richness in the vegetation and seed bank of a Mediterranean encroached dehesa in Central Spain. The seed bank was studied with and without a heat shock simulating a spatially homogeneous fire. Semivariograms and cross-semivariograms showed that species richness in the vegetation was aggregated in patches, mainly of herbs, with highest values corresponding to high herb cover and low tree cover. Species richness in the seed bank was also structured in patches, but the spatial pattern was weak. Seedling density of germinates in the seed bank also showed weak spatial pattern. Heating increased overall germination and species richness, and the intensity of the spatial pattern of species richness, particularly of herbaceous species. However, seed bank density patterns disappeared after heat shock because of increased germination of shrubs without spatial pattern. Our results document that the spatial structure of plant richness in the vegetation may persist after fire due to the spatial patterns of herbaceous species in the seed bank, and that postfire species richness patterns can arise independently of fire intensity patterns. However, the spatial structure of the vegetation after fire can be altered by the feedback between shrub encroachment and an eventual fire because of the ubiquitous germination of shrubs.
40212926|For much of the western USA, precipitation occurs in pulses, the nature of which determine soil water potential and plant physiological Performance. This research utilized three experiments to examine the sensitivity of photosynthesis and water relations for two widespread Great Basin Desert shrub species, Artemisia tridentata (which has both deep and shallow roots) and Purshia tridentata (which reportedly has only deep roots), to (1) Variation in pulse magnitude size, (2) the kinetics of responses to pulses, and (3) the relationship between pulsesize and antecedent soil water content. At the study site in the southwestern Great Basin Desert, USA, summer rainfall exhibits a greater frequency of larger-sized events, and longer inter-pulse intervals, compared to annual patterns. Compared to pre-watering values, stem water potential initially increased by about 2.00 MPa for A. tridentata and 1.00 MPa for P. tridentata following watering to simulate an 11.5 mm rainfall pulse. For the same water addition, stomatal conductance increased by 0.3 mol m s and photosynthetic CO assimilation increased 8-fold for A. tridentata and 6-fold for P. tridentata. Water potential and photosynthetic gas exchange were maximal for both species 2-3 days following a pulse addition. In comparison to P. tridentata, the increase in photosynthesis for A. tridentata was more pronounced for plants treated incrementally with several small pulses compared to plants treated with one pulse of an equivalent total volume. The results indicate that both species can respond to a rnge of summer rainfall pulse magnitudes within about 2 days, with A. tridentata generally exhibiting larger responses in comparison to the co-dominant shrub species P. tridentata, which at this study site does indeed have shallow roots. In a future climate, the timing and magnitude of summer rainfall pulses will determine the extent to which these two species undergo changes in water Status and photosynthetic carbon uptake, with implications for their fitness.
23267454|Understanding how competition from invasive species and soil conditions individually and interactively affect native performance will increase knowledge of invasion dynamics and can be used to improve the success of restoration plans. This study, conducted in Reno NV, USA, uses a two-phase plantsoil feedback experiment coupled with a target-neighbor competition design to examine the individual and interactive effects of both soil conditions and invasive neighbors on native performance. Study species include invasive species (Bromus tectorum and Agropyron cristatum) and native species (Elymus elymoides and Pseudoroegneria spicata). Results indicate that both plant performance and competitive interactions were influenced by species-specific soil conditioning. Specifically, invasive B. tectorum generated a larger competitive effect on natives than invasive A. cristatum; however, only A. cristatum conditioned soil in a manner that increased competitive effects of conspecifics on natives. Native P. spicata was relatively unaffected by soil conditioning and conversely, E. elymoides was strongly affected by soil conditioning. Few previous studies have examined soil conditioning and the interaction of soil conditioning and neighbor effects that both are potentially important mechanisms in structuring plant communities and influencing plant invasion.
40926913|Biological traits that are advantageous under specific ecological conditions should be present in a large proportion of the species within an ecosystem, where those specific conditions prevail. As climatic conditions change, the frequency of certain traits in plant communities is expected to change with increasing altitude. We examined patterns of change for 13 traits in 120 exhaustive inventories of plants along five altitudinal transects (520-3,100 m a.s.l.) in grasslands and in forests in western Switzerland. The traits selected for study represented the occupation of space, photosynthesis, reproduction and dispersal. For each plot, the mean trait values or the proportions of the trait states were weighted by species cover and examined in relation to the first axis of a PCA based on local climatic conditions. With increasing altitude in grasslands, we observed a decrease in anemophily and an increase in entomophily complemented by possible selfing; a decrease in diaspores with appendages adapted to ectozoochory, linked to a decrease in achenes and an increase in capsules. In lowlands, pollination and dispersal are ensured by wind and animals. However, with increasing altitude, insects are mostly responsible for pollination, and wind becomes the main natural dispersal vector. Some traits showed a particularly marked change in the alpine belt (e.g. the increase of capsules and the decrease of achenes), confirming that this belt concentrates particularly stressful conditions to plant growth and reproduction (e.g. cold, short growing season) that constrain plants to a limited number of strategies. One adaptation to this stress is to limit investment in dispersal by producing capsules with numerous, tiny seeds that have appendages limited to narrow wings. Forests displayed many of the trends observed in grasslands but with a reduced variability that is likely due to a shorter altitudinal gradient.
20051259|Dandelions (Taraxacum officinale Weber (sensu lato); Asteraceae) have been introduced to North and South America with human migration from Europe. While potential source populations have both sexually and obligate asexually (agamospermous) reproducing lineages, apparently only the latter have successfully colonized the Americas. The consequences of obligate agamospermy on dandelion population genetic diversity in North America remain little explored. Here we use four different synthetic DNA probes that reveal genetic markers at multiple variable-number-tandem-repeat (VNTR) loci to examine patterns of genetic variation among plants collected along three different central North American transects with plants (21 to 22 individuals per transect) separated by: 1) &gt 2 m and &lt 60 m (short transect); 2) &gt 5 km and &lt 30 km (medium transect); and 3) &gt 30 km and &lt 340 km (long transect). The mean number of VNTR markers revealed per plant was 59.3. Co-clonal individuals (proportion of bands shared exceeding 90%) were found in each transect, with the index of clonality (the percent of co-clonal individuals detected in a transect) ranging from 34.12% for the short transect to 18.65% for the long transect. Co-clonal individuals were separated by up to 200 km. With redundant examples of co-clonal individuals removed, mean similarity (proportion of band sharing) of distinct genotypes within transects was 0.426, and no statistical differences in level of similarity between transects, nor indication of genetic differentiation between transects, was detected (mean
20146425|This study experimentally compares growth of four aquatic macrophytes species (Sparganium emersum Rehm., Hippuris vulgaris L., Groenlandia densa (L.) Fourr., Luronium natans (L.) Raf.) with different modes of winter persistence in a thermally buffered habitat. The question is whether the above-ground persistence of photosynthetic structures during winter can compensate for low growth rates of evergreens when they compete with fast growing, non-evergreen species. The experiment was carried out in experimental boxes installed in a former river channel fed by stenothermic ground-water. Species were planted pairwise in experimental boxes in autumn, monitoring was carried out in the following year: degree of evergreenness was evaluated through number of ramets present prior to the main growing season, competitive ability of species was assessed during the growing season through cover measurements at three dates. Degree of evergreenness varied considerably between species, ranging from increase of ramet numbers during winter in Luronium over preservation of ramet numbers in Groenlandia and Hippuris to nearly complete winter die-back in Sparganium. Luronium presented the highest cover during the entire growing season. Only by the end of summer did Sparganium attain a similar cover through a high growth rate. Despite large differences in cover, growth appeared largely unaffected by the kind of treatment partner a species was confronted with. Nevertheless, this study demonstrates that being evergreen can compensate for a low growth rate during the main growing season when it is associated to extensive growth outside this main growing season.
40305681|Recent die-off of coastal forests has been attributed primarily to the effects of sea level rise by correlation with tide-gage records. Due to the temporal and spatial scales involved, direct monitoring of sea level rise impacts is challenging and its attribution can be confounded by both land-use history and species interactions. Here we present experimental evidence for a micro-tidal, oligohaline estuarine system that the location of coastal treeline is determined by both environmental controls and positive and negative species interactions. We conducted field surveys and a transplant experiment to determine the controls on pine seedling establishment and survival along a salinity and flooding gradient. Using a twoway changepoint model we determined that sawgrass cover (Cladium jamaicense) and salinity concentrations interact to control natural pine regeneration (Pinus taeda). The long-term removal of sawgrass resulted in increased soil salinity and high rates of (planted) pine seedling mortality. In contrast, pine seedlings planted directly under sawgrass were able to survive at the same level as upland forest plots because of reduced salinity levels. This research provides evidence that sawgrass can facilitate pine seedling survival, but also suggests that either competitive exclusion by sawgrass or dispersal limitations prevent initial pine seedling regeneration. We propose that forest dynamics are closely coupled to fire, which consumes sawgrass biomass and reduces competition between pine seedlings and grass. Following fire, pine seedling establishment and the regrowth of sawgrass facilitates long-term pine seedling survival. Under this scenario, recent marsh invasion into coastal forests may not necessarily represent a permanent state change in locations where abiotic stress is not the only determinant for community composition.
20050861|Deforestation has resulted in the fragmentation of forests. Remnant fragments are widely assumed to be sources of seeds for forest regeneration in abandoned pastures. The seed rain in 12 pastures at Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, their relationship with riparian vegetation adjacent to them, and their closeness to the reserve is described. For all the species found in the seed rain, we classified them by typical habitat (pasture or rain forest), life form, dispersal syndrome, and plant strategy (pioneer or non-pioneer species). In addition, germinability was evaluated for all seeds. We also assessed the correlation in composition of the seed rain and the riparian vegetation. Only 11% of the total species that occur in the Los Tuxtlas region reach pastures via dispersal from forest fragments. However, nearly 80% of the species in the seed rain did not come from the fruiting individuals in the adjacent riparian vegetation. The proportion of dispersal syndromes, life forms and plant strategies of the species in the seed rain was similar to those observed in the rain forest. On average, the germinability of forest species was less than 30%. The forest species richness was similar in the seed rain in pastures and inside the forest, but the pasture seed rain contained fewer seeds per species. Pastures have a high potential for natural regeneration because of seed dispersal from adjacent forest. However, the forest that regenerates in pastures close to the reserve is expected to contain different species than the forest regenerating far away from it.
20051349|Distyly, a reproductive system characterized by the presence of long-styled (thrum) and short-styled (pin) individuals within a population, has been repeatedly used as a model for the study of the evolution of the reproductive systems in plants. Erythroxylum havanense is a distylous species in which most thrum plants fail to develop a fertile androecium, thus behaving as male-sterile or partially male-sterile plants. Short-styled (thrum) individuals have an increased performance as female parents, thereby compensating for their loss of male fitness. Previous studies of populations within close proximity to each other suggest that E. havanense may be involved in a process of gender specialization in which, unlike other heterostylous species, thrum plants are specializing as females and pins (long-styled) as males. In this paper we describe more general patterns of male sterility, one of the first steps in the evolution of gender specialization, among populations of the distylous shrub Erythroxylum havanense. Pollen germination differed among populations (range 0.52  0.03 to 0.06  0.04), and between morphs. Pollen from pin plants was almost two times (1.89) as fertile as that from thrums (0.36  0.03 and 0.19  0.03, pin and thrums respectively). Thrums were significantly more male sterile in four out of five populations. The population where differences between the floral morphs were not apparent showed the lowest levels of pollen fertility. Accordingly, our results indicate that populations of E. havanense show marked differences in pollen fertility and higher male sterility associated with the thrum morph. We hypothesize that differences between morphs could be explained if restorers of male sterility are linked to the distyly haplotype, while differences in genes associated with male sterility could explain the variation among populations. Overall, the prevalence of thrum-biased male sterility across populations suggests that E. havanense is subject to a process of gender specialization.
40305765|Cover estimates by eye is a prevailing method to assess abundance. We examined cover estimates with regard to bias and random variation. Ten observers working with a national forest vegetation survey estimated sixteen 100 m -plots, placed in two different vegetation types. These had similar species composition but were clearly distinguishable in the field. In species-wise analyses, observer bias varied greatly, with Dicranum spp., Vaccinium vitisidaea and Vaccinium myrtillus having the largest bias. Experience had a surprisingly small impact on variation. Power analysis revealed only small differences between observers in the ability to distinguish the two vegetation types, and little value in averaging the assessments from two, three or four observers. Cover estimates did better than presence/absence data in separating the two vegetation types and multivariate analyses were more powerful than univariate ones.
40305711|The resurrection flowering plant Ramonda serbica inhabits the shallow organo-mineral soil that develops in crevices on northern-facing carbonate rocks in the gorges in the Balkan Peninsula. This type of soil represents a complex substrate whose physical and chemical properties were found to be well suited to the most important requirements for the growth and development of R. serbica as well as for the plant's survival in the state of anhydrobiosis in periods of drought stress. Considerable amount of organic matter (39.4%) in the soil resulted in the high field capacity (134 ml/100 g soil) as well as the slow changes in the amount of its available water. The suitable soil hydric status, based on the organic remains, supports the slow dehydration of this poikilohydric plant, which is extremely important in allowing the activation of the plant's protective mechanisms. The pH of the soil solution was slighty alkaline (7.7) mostly due to carbonates in its crystallographic structure. The large amount of incompletely decomposed organic debris resulted in a marked difference between total and available nutrient concentration in the soil. Still, the adequate content of nutrients in the leaves points to efficient mineral consumption by the plant roots. The sufficient bioavailability of nutrients and water was also improved by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza detected in R. serbica roots.
40305539|We tested the hypothesis that small rockenclosed geologic refuges have an important role in maintaining grazing-sensitive species in grassland with a long history of intense grazing. The study was carried out in Mediterranean grassland in a basalt landscape in northern Israel. Community composition was compared in 63 sites between samples of 1 m uadrats in two microhabitats: (1) rock-enclosed, presumed "refuges" and (2) rock-adjacent, "near refuges" but just outside them, accessible to cattle grazing. Median refuge area was 2.75 m, median rock height and diameter around refuges were 1.10 m and 1.50 m. Median height of residual dry herbage was 1.41 m in refuges, compared to 0.38 m outside, indicating the difference in grazing intensity. Species richness at three scales (quadrat, site, all sites) was significantly greater in the near-refuge than in the refuge habitat. In the latter, many annuals were excluded by dominance of tall perennials. Twelve species (of 103) had significantly higher cover in refuges, including tall perennial grasses, tall annuals, climbers, and a shrub. A total of 53 species with a strong significant negative response to refuges were mostly small and medium height annuals. The intermediate group of 38 species with weak or nonsignificant responses to refuges included, among others, dominant tall grasses that were abundant both in refuges and just outside them. The latter, as well as most refuge-positive species had shown a positive response to protection in exclosures. The results support the hypothesis that small rock-enclosed habitats more so than artificial exclosures are effective grazing refuges for rare, grazing-susceptible species. The contribution of refuges to species richness at the landscape scale is much greater than their proportion of the area. Dispersion from refuges maintains small populations of rare species near refuges and can initiate expansion into the landscape when grazing pressure is lowered.
40305733|The pollination of one plant species can be facilitated by the presence of one or more neighboring plant species and evidence has been found in some rewardless species of orchid that benefit from the presence of rewarding plant species in the neighborhood. There are two pollination mechanisms by which a non-rewarding orchid attracts pollinators and increases its reproductive success: (1) A magnetic species effect that occurs even though the flowers do not resemble those of the other species, and (2) floral mimicry where the mimic's flower resembles that of the model plant species. Oncidium cosymbephorum is a Mexican rewardless epiphytic orchid whose flowers look like those of the rewarding shrub Malpighia glabra (Malpighiaceae). The resemblance of O. cosymbe- phorum to the oil-offering flowers of M. glabra attracts the same pollinators, and the fitness of the orchid is higher when M. glabra is present than when it is absent. We evaluated the facilitation by M. glabra of the orchid's pollination for natural and artificial clumps of O. cosymbephorum close to and far from M. glabra over 4 years. Two experiments were performed at five different study sites to evaluate the effect of the presence and absence of M. glabra on the reproductive success of O. cosymbephorum. In experiment 1, we recorded fruit set production in natural and artificial monospecific clumps of the orchid, and in natural and artificial heterospecific clumps of O. cosymbephorum and M. glabra. In experiment 2, we recorded the fruit set of O. cosymbephorum at different sites where individuals grow in monospecific clumps, both before and after cultivated individuals of oil-producing M. glabra had been planted in their vicinity. Both experiments showed that the reproductive success of O. cosymbephorum was greater in the presence of M. glabra than it was in its absence. This study provides experimental evidence for the magnetic species effect. Floral similarity between O. cosymbephorum and M. glabra, should be experimentally tested to determine whether it is adaptive.
40212920|El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events have profound consequences for the dynamics of terrestrial ecosystems. Since increased climate variability is expected to favour the invasive success of exotic species, we conducted a field experiment to study the effects that simulated rainy ENSO events in combination with herbivores and shade have on the composition of a semiarid herbaceous Community in north-central Chile. We hypothesized that water pulses, such as those associated with rainy ENSO events could trigger significant changes in the relative abundance of exotic and native herbaceous species. Specifically, we predicted an increase in native grasses and a reduction in the abundance of exotic species, especially prostrate forbs, if water pulses were combined with reduced herbivory. We found that herbivory by small mammals, especially introduced European rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) and hares (Lepus europaeus), have an overwhelming effect on species abundance and composition in this semiarid herbaceous Community. Herbivore exclusion produced an overall increase in herb density and biomass mostly due to the extraordinary growth of tall native grasses (especially Bromus berterianus) that outcompeted small prostrate forbs (both native and exotic ones), and small exotic grasses (Koeleria pleoides, Schismus arabicus). Our results suggest that it might be possible to enhance the recovery of native grasses by applying efficient herbivore control during rainy years such as those associated with ENSO events although a negative consequence would be the loss of small native forbs, which greatly contribute to the richness of herbaceous communities in semiarid ecosystems.
20146659| Changes in the structure and composition of a dry forest fragment were described for a 4-yr period (1994-1998) in the southeastern Brazil (191205" S and 470802" W). This is the first dynamic study of a vanishing type of dry forest, which grows on base-rich soils originating from the basalt bedrock of western Minas Gerais State. A survey of trees  3.2 cm dbh (diameter at breast height, or 1.30 m) was conducted in 26 transects of 50 m  6 m (0.78 ha). The species were classified into three regeneration guilds -- pioneer, light-demanding and shade-tolerant -- on the basis of others studies and personal observation. There was a decrease of 10.1% in the number of trees between 1994 and 1998. However, the basal area had an increase of 1.5% in the same period. Size class distributions in 1994 and 1998 were significantly different. The smallest trees (diameter &lt 10 cm) had the highest mortality rates. Although stand composition showed little change, a few species showed significant imbalance between recruitment and mortality. The studied fragment had mortality (2.3% yr) and recruitment (1.6% yr) rates similar to other tropical rain forests for trees  10 cm dbh. The present fragment of forest (turnover time = 39.5 yr, at cut level 10 cm dbh) lies among the most dynamic tropical forests. The main compositional changes were the increase of shade-tolerant trees and decline of pioneer species. The changes in composition and structure over the survey period may reflect the recovery of the forest after 4 yr of conservation. 
20146967| Hong Kong is an extreme example of tropical landscape degradation, with no substantial remnants of the original forest cover and a highly impoverished disperser fauna. Seed availability is a potential limiting factor in vegetation recovery in such landscapes. To assess the quantity and quality of the seed rain of woody taxa, seed traps were placed in the major upland vegetation types: fire-maintained grassland, shrubland, and secondary forest. Within the grassland site, traps were placed under isolated trees, isolated male and female shrubs of Eurya chinensis, and in the open. Seeds were collected every 2 weeks for 2 years. The seed rain was highest under female shrubs in grassland (6455 seeds m year), where it was almost entirely confined to their fruiting period. Next highest were isolated trees (890 seeds), followed by male isolated shrubs (611 seeds), shrubland (558 seeds), forest (129 seeds) and open grassland (47 seeds). The number of seed taxa was highest in shrubland (59), followed by isolated trees (42), forest (42), female isolated shrubs (28), male isolated shrubs (15), and open grassland (9). The seed rain differed in species composition between the forest, shrubland, and grassland sites, while the differences within the grassland site were largely in terms of quantity. Birds (particularly bulbuls, Pycnonotus spp.) are known or inferred to be the major dispersal agents for 85% of the seed taxa trapped, 99% of the total number of seeds trapped, and 99.8% of the seeds trapped in the grassland site. Few taxa and &lt 1% of the total seeds were dispersed by wind and no seed taxa were definitely dispersed by fruit bats. The results suggest that even in the most degraded landscape the seed rain is adequate for the development of woody vegetation cover, but that human intervention will be needed for the restoration of plant diversity. 
20050894|The DBH-class distribution in natural deciduous broad-leaved forests was elucidated with a power function. A power function (y =
20050888|In a semidesert community in Mxico (Zapotitln de las Salinas, Puebla) the vertical distribution of roots and root biomass was estimated at 0-100 cm depth on two sampling dates, November 1995 (wet season) and January 1998 (dry season). Root productivity at 7 to 14.5 cm depth was estimated with the in-growth core technique every two months from March 1996 to February 1998. The relationship between environmental factors and seasonal root productivity was analyzed. Finally, we tested the effect of an irrigation equivalent to 20 mm of rain on root production. Seventy four percent of the total number of roots were found at 0-40 cm depth. Very fine roots (&lt1 mm diameter) were found throughout the soil profile (0-100 cm). In contrast, fine roots (1-3 mm diameter) were found only from 0-90 cm depth, and coarse roots (&gt3 mm diameter) from 0-60 cm depth. The root biomass was 971.5 g
20051058|Understanding spatio-temporal patterns in rainfall received beneath tropical forest is required for eco- hydrological modelling of soil-water status, river behaviour, soil erosion, nutrient loss and wet-canopy evaporation. As selective-logging of tropical forest leaves a very complex mosaic of canopy types, it is likely to add to the spatio-temporal complexity of this sub-canopy or net precipitation. As a precursor to addressing this problem, the analysis presented here will examine the two dominant biophysical controls on sub-canopy precipitation. These controls are: (a) the spatial and temporal patterns in above-canopy or gross rainfall, and (b) the rate of wet-canopy evaporation associated with each type of canopy structure created by selective-forestry. For this study, over 400 raingauges were installed within a
20050710|A study was conducted to analyse the effect of habitat productivity on woody species colonisation. Three soil types were distinguished: a relatively poor sandy soil type (1), a somewhat richer sandy type (2) and a relatively rich sandy loamy type (3). Chronosequences were established on these three soil types of 38 (type 1), 20 (type 2) and 54 years (type 3) after abandonment. In total 117 vegetation releves were used to analyse life form change and species responses during old field succession via regression models. On the rich soil type the colonisation rate of woody species was slower than on the poor soil type. This can be explained by higher abundances of perennial species during the first 20 years after abandonment on the rich soil type in contrast to the poor soil type. Perennial species may delay the woody species colonisation. First they close the bare ground which inhibits germination and next they compete with woody seedlings for light, water and nutrients. The effect of habitat productivity on woody species colonisation can only be determined appropriately by taking life history traits into account. Early successional 'pioneer' woody species dispersed by wind have less difficulties colonising old fields than late successional 'forest' species; they colonise old fields prior to the development of a dense perennial sward. Forest species depend on animals to be dispersed which are attracted by vegetation structure. In  30 years on the poor soil type and in  45 years on the rich soil type woody species become dominant relative to other life forms. Forest species like Quercus robur L. invaded relatively early (&lt5 years) in contrast to other studies which probably coincides with the distance to seed sources (forest edges).
20146379|We studied the distribution pattern, species diversity and life-form spectra of plant communities along an altitudinal gradient in the mid-section of the northern slopes of Qilianshan Mountains by means of multivariate analyses. Two data sets (167 species  75 plots, 10 environmental variables  75 plots), originated from the fieldworks in 1998-1999, were subjected to TWINSPAN and DCCA, resulting in 8 major plant communities: 1) Asterothamnus centraliasiaticus-Halogeton arachnoideus desert grassland on azonal substrates from 1450 to 1600 m and 2) zonal Reaumuria soogorica desert grassland on gravels from 1470 to 1900 m; 3) Stipa przewalskii-Stipa purpurea montane grassland from 2200 to 2900 m; 4) Polygonum viviparum alpine grassland from 2900 to 3700 m; 5) Caragana stenophylla-Ajania fruticulosa dry-warm shrubland from 2350 to 2800 m; 6) Sabina przewalskii mid-wet warm forest from 2700 to 3300 m; 7) Picea crassifolia cold coniferous forest from 2450 to 3200 m; 8) Caragana jubata wet-cold alpine shrubland from 3100 to 3700 m. Species diversity and species richness of both grasslands and forests peaked at the intermediate portion of the elevational gradient. Evenness might be strongly influenced by either biotic or abiotic factors at a local scale, while seems quite independent of an elevational gradient at landscape scales. Beta-diversity decreased from 1500 to 3700 m, indicating that species turnover declined with increased elevation. Both richness of life-form and total species richness in a given altitudinal belt (gamma-diversity) peaked at intermediate elevations, while relative species richness of different life-form varied differently along the altitudinal gradient.
20051167|A hierarchical classification of forested wetland communities was developed for the lower Roanoke River floodplain of northeastern North Carolina, USA, through the use of multitemporal and multispectral satellite digital data. Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) images from different seasons (March-April, May-June, July-August) throughout a single year were used to exploit the phenological variability of forest communities for generating a landcover classification of ecologically important vegetation types within the floodplain. A hierarchical classification scheme was developed that relied upon customized spectral 'feature sets' of Landsat TM bands and their transformations to generate the classified images for each level of the forest community classification scheme. The objective was to enhance the discrimination of the community types at subsequent levels of the hierarchical classification scheme through different spectral inputs from the assembled satellite time series in conjunction with detailed floristic information collected though in-situ methods. As such, general landcover classes were iteratively reclassified into more detailed classes at correspondingly 'deeper' levels or nodes in the hierarchy. Vegetation classes included 21 forest communities and several other ecologically important classes in the study area. The integration of detailed field data permitted spatially-explicit and highly descriptive definitions of the forest types occurring within the floodplain. Additional field data were used to validate the compositional and structural characteristics of the mapped plant communities described by the classification scheme. Use of fuzzy set theory in the accuracy assessment provided details on the magnitude and direction of errors in the classification, and permitted ecological interpretation of those errors. The application of fuzzy set concepts to the mapping of bottomland forest communities is significant because these forests typically exhibit substantial variation in species composition and support diverse canopy dominants. Unlike the discrete classification assessments that are traditionally employed, fuzzy sets report accuracy according to the degree of correctness of a mapped class. By this method, the natural variability of the forest communities can be reported relative to a continuous scale ranging from full membership, to partial membership, to zero membership. Using the most stringent rules for class membership, the classification was 92.1% accurate, but was 96.6% accurate when fuzzy (transitional) relationships between forest types were considered. Diagnostic statistics indicated the magnitude of classification correctness and the degree of confusion and/or ambiguity for classes at various levels of the classification scheme. Assessing classification accuracy through a continuous scale of membership simulated the natural variability and transitional nature of the forested wetland communities within the study area.
40212878|A holm oak forest was exposed to an experimental drought during 5 years to elucidate the growth responses of the dominant species Quercus ilex, Arbutus unedo and Phillyrea latifolia. Soil water availability was partially reduced, about 15% as predicted for this area for the next decades by GCM and ecophysiological models, by plastic strips intercepting rainfall and by ditch exclusion of water runoff. The stem diameter increment was highly correlated with annual rainfall in all species, and drought treatment strongly reduced the diameter increment of Q. ilex (41%) and specially of A. unedo (63%), the species showing higher growth rates. Stem mortality rates were highly correlated with previous stem density, but drought treatment increased mortality rates in all species. Q. ilex showed the highest mortality rates (9% and 18% in control and drought plots, respectively), and P. latifolia experienced the lowest mortality rates (1% and 3% in control and drought plots, respectively). Drought strongly reduced the increment of live aboveground biomass during these 5 years (83%). A. unedo and Q. ilex experienced a high reduction in biomass increment by drought, whereas P. latifolia biomass increment was insensitive to drought. The different sensitivity to drought of the dominant species of the holm oak forest may be very important determining their future development and distribution in a drier environment as expected in Mediterranean areas for the next decades. These drier conditions could thus have strong effects on structure (species composition) and functioning (carbon uptake and biomass accumulation) of these Mediterranean forests.
20146601|The relationships between a geophyte (Merendera montana (L.) Lange -- Liliaceae) and a mole-vole (Microtus duodecimcostatus de Slys-Longchamps) in the Spanish Pyrenees were investigated by analysing plant density, asexual reproductive strategies, and chemical composition of M. montana, and by observing the feeding behavior of M. duodecimcostatus in captivity. We found that M. montana contains toxic alkaloids, the concentration of which varies throughout the year; being minimal at the end of the vegetative period. Alkaloids are stored in the whole plant, particularly in the leaves which are scarcely consumed by herbivores. Nevertheless, mole-voles eat this plant profusely both in the field and in captivity, where they showed preference for the corm. The corm has lower alkaloid concentration and higher levels of energetic substances than the other plant parts, particularly leaves. Although corm consumption causes plant death, M. montana grows more abundantly in areas colonized by mole-voles than in undisturbed grasslands with high plant cover and absence of mole-vole populations. Both asexual reproduction and seedlings of this species are more frequent in highly disturbed areas. Results strongly suggest a protocooperative relationship between mole-voles and this geophyte: the burrowing behavior of mole-voles favours dispersal and reproductive success of the plant, enhancing its habitat availability; the plant in turn supplies abundant and nutritious food at a low and "acceptable" toxicity cost.
40305550|Tree bark characteristics influence epiphyte establishment and survival and consequently the way in which epiphytes are distributed on trees. Tree species with peeling bark have been reported as poor epiphyte hosts. We analyzed the distribution and seedling mortality of two Tillandsia species (Bromeliaceae) in relation to rate of bark peeling of Bursera fagaroides (Burseraceae). The highest peeling rate (0.12% per day) took place on the trunk and the lowest rate on twigs (0.04% per day; branches 2 cm in diameter). The highest proportion of Tillandsia plants appeared on twigs. The distributions of juvenile and adult plants on twigs were higher than those expected based on the distribution of first-year seedlings, suggesting that on twigs, survival could be greater than on trunks and branches, canopy areas where peeling is faster. On the trunk and branches, in contrast, the proportion of juveniles and adults were similar to or less than that expected for first-year seedlings. The main cause of mortality was peeling and the area of minor overall mortality was the trunk, suggesting that this area should be favored as the main distribution area for the Tillandsia species but is not. Our results show that the peeling rate of B. fagaroides depends on branch size and suggest that the Tillandsia distribution depends not only on peeling rate but also on seed dispersion. We suggest that to colonize B. fagaroides epiphytes would either have adaptations to counteract the peeling rate or should occur in the areas of lowest peeling rate located in the exterior crown of trees.
40305782|Spatially restricted gene flow and resulting spatial genetic structure are generally considered as being the primary controlling factors in the dynamics of biparental inbreeding depression in a wide range of plant species. However, wind-pollinated angiosperm trees have not been studied adequately in this respect. The present study analyses the relationships among parental genetic similarity, outcrossing distances, progeny vigour and mortality in Polylepis australis (Rosaceae), a wind-pollinated treeline species endemic to Argentina. We investigated whether spatial genetic structuring occurs in anthropogenically fragmented P. australis woodlands of the Cordoba Mountains. We also performed a controlled crossing experiment using pollen collected from different distances. Genetic variability (using RAPD-PCR), vigour (N-metabolism capacity) and mortality of the resulting progeny were contrasted with progeny from unmanipulated flowers. We found a continuous decrease in parental genetic similarity with spatial distance among mates and an increase in N-metabolism capacity in the progeny produced from pollen at increasing distances, as well as a very high mortality of seedlings resulting from short-distance crosses. Additionally, our results suggest that there is still fragment connectivity in P. australis through long-distance pollen-mediated gene flow.
20146530|The aim of this experiment was to determine how increasing species richness within artificially created grassland gaps affected the overall magnitude of seedling losses to, and the selectivity of, seedling herbivores. Using chemical exclusion methods, the influence of molluscs the principal invertebrate herbivores in temperate grasslands, was assessed at three levels of plant species diversity (3, 6, and 12 species per gap). In comparison with ungrazed controls, mollusc herbivory significantly reduced seedling numbers. However, the total number of seedlings killed by molluscs was unrelated to the number of seedling species present in the gap. Furthermore, there was no evidence to suggest that seedling species diversity influenced rates of mollusc selection of the three individual species (Agrostis capillaris, Senecio jacobaeae, and Taraxacum officinale) present in each diversity treatment. This work highlights the preferential selection by molluscs of broad-leaved herb species over neighbouring grass seedlings. However the results also suggest that when presented with an increasing choice of different seedling species, the overall magnitude and selectivity of seedling removal by molluscs remains unchanged.
40212953|Melaleuca quinquenervia (melaleuca) is a native of Australia but has become an invasive plant in Florida, USA. We conducted a long-term demographic study of melaleuca in three sections (central, transitional, and peripheral) of monoculture stands located in Florida, and quantified absolute density, diameter at breast height and basal area of trees by section at three sites. Additionally, we monitored the impacts of natural enemy (insects and fungi) on melaleuca populations which became apparent after 2001. Both absolute density and basal area, from before (1997-2001) and after noticeable natural-enemy impact (2002-2005), were compared. Prior to the natural-enemy impact, absolute density of melaleuca trees declined primarily due to self-thinning and associated losses of small trees, but diameter at breast height increased, as did the basal area. Later during the period when natural enemies prevailed, absolute density declined at a significantly greater rate across all sections but was highest at the periphery. The decrease in mean absolute density and basal area/ha of melaleuca during the natural-enemy impacted period coincided with the increased incidence of the populations of plant-feeding insects and fungi. The mean diameter at breast height continued to increase in all sections of the stands throughout the study period. An increasing trend in basal area prior to natural-enemy impact was reversed after increase in natural-enemy abundance and noticeable impact in all three sections of the stands. These findings lend support to a growing body of literature that implicates natural enemies as increasingly important density-independent regulators of M. quinquenervia populations.
23500361|Nucleation is a successional process in which extant vegetation facilitates seed dispersal and recruitment of other individuals and species around focal points in the landscape, leading to ecosystem recovery. This is an important process in disturbed sites where regeneration is limited by abiotic conditions or restrictive seed dispersal. We investigated forest recovery in a large burned area of evergreen temperate rainforest in southern Chile subjected to seasonal soil waterlogging, and assessed the relevance of nucleation processes in overcoming biotic and physical barriers for tree species regeneration. We measured richness and abundance of woody species in relation to patch size, as well as abiotic factors such as light and soil moisture within and outside patches. We found higher tree regeneration in existing patches than in open areas. We recorded an increase of patch size over time, associated with the increase in number of individuals and tree species. Soils in open areas were waterlogged, especially in winter, while patches were not. Trees in patches also acted as perches, enhancing bird-mediated seed rain. Seeds of fleshy-fruited tree species arrived first at patches and seedlings were more frequent in smaller, younger patches, while the number of seedlings of trees with wind-dispersed seeds increased in larger, older patches. Our study shows that woody species seem incapable of recruiting in open and waterlogged soils and depend strongly on extant vegetation patches to establish. In this fire-disturbed evergreen temperate forest regeneration occurs via nucleation, where new individuals contribute to a centrifugal kind of patch growth.
40926900|Pilosocereus leucocephalus produces flowers in discrete pulses, suggesting this cactus might exhibit pulsed floweringa rare flowering pattern among angiosperms. In this study, we (1) describe the phenology of P. leucocephalus, (2) explore the influence of temperature, rainfall, and plant size on the flowering pattern, and (3) assess the effect of flowering phenology on the reproductive success of this cactus.Flowering phenology was characterized using the coefficient of variation in addition to traditional descriptors of flowering phenology: flowering onset, flowering duration, number of pulses and flowers, as well as flowering synchrony. The association between temperature, rainfall, plant size, and reproductive success (fruit set) with phenological descriptors was assessed using mixed-effects models. The flowering phenology of P. leucocephalus was confirmed as pulsed but was unexpectedly asynchronous. This cactus flowers during the warmest part of the year.We found a significant relationship between temperature and flower production. Plant size has a strong effect on all the flowering phenology descriptors we studied, except flowering synchrony. Of the phenological descriptors evaluated, only flowering onset has a significant and positive relationship with fruit set.These results strongly suggest that flowering phenology in P. leucocephalus (1) is mainly controlled by temperature and plant size and (2) influences its reproductive success.
40305491|A field experiment was conducted in a semi-natural grassland to study the interspecific variation in the effect of litter on seedling emergence and establishment and separate physical from chemical effects. Seeds of seven forb species were sown in plots subjected to either litter amendment (0, 400 or 900 g m) or water extracts of litter (corresponding to 400 and 900 g litter m). In addition, an extract was treated with activated carbon to estimate the possible effects of secondary chemical compounds. The response to plant litter differed amongst species: negative, neutral and positive responses were observed. Anthriscus sylvestris was the only species with a strong positive response to litter. We found no consistent relation between seed size and response to plant litter. Physical effects of litter were generally stronger than chemical effects. However, water extract of litter inhibited emergence in three species. Activated carbon removed the negative effect of the litter extract, which suggests that the effect was caused by an inhibitory chemical compound rather than by increased competition in response to nutrients added via the extract. The balance between facilitative and inhibitory effects of litter depended on species identity and litter quantity. Facilitative effects dominated at low and intermediate quantities of litter, and inhibitory effects at high litter quantities. One species, Campanula rotundifolia, showed a switch from positive to negative responses with increasing quantities of litter. However, we found no general threshold for litter quantity valid across species.
20146513|Given the observed heterogeneity in fire severity produced within wildfires, we asked to what extent this heterogeneity might affect post-fire regeneration. For this purpose, we studied the post-fire dynamics of Pinus halepensis (Aleppo pine) in the eastern Iberian Peninsula. Sampling was stratified on the basis of fire severity. We defined three fire severity classes based on the degree of consumption of the pine canopy. The results suggested that there is no clear relationship between seedling density and fire severity; however, mortality was lower and growth (height, shoot biomass and root biomass) was higher in the high severity class. These results can be explained by soil processes: Sites in the high fire severity class may have sustained higher fire intensities, resulting in higher soil organic matter mineralisation and higher ash deposition, and thus in higher post-fire soil fertility. This higher fertility would produce faster growth in pine seedlings. Independent of the severity class, seedling mortality was higher in quadrats (50  50 cm) with higher cover of the perennial grass Brachypodium retusum (Poaceae), suggesting a possible competitive effect. For all plots in all 3 severity classes, spatial analysis suggests an aggregate seedlings pattern, but with independence from the position of the adult (source) trees.
20050430|This study reports changes in the plant's chemical composition and the decomposition of this plant material under enhanced solar UV-B radiation. Calamagrostis epigeios, a dominant grass species in the dune grassland in The Netherlands, was grown outdoor on an experimental field under ambient and enhanced solar UV-B (5 and
20051085|The effects of sub-ambient levels of UV-B radiation on the shrub Rosmarinus officinalis L. were investigated in a field filtration experiment in which the ambient UV-B was manipulated by a combination of UV-B transmitting and UV-B absorbing filters. As a result, the plants were receiving near-ambient or drastically reduced UV-B radiation doses. Drastic reduction of UV-B radiation had no effect on mean, total and maximum stem length, number of stems per plant, dry mass of leaves, stems and roots and leaf nitrogen and phenolic contents. However, flowering was more pronounced under reduced UV-B radiation during the winter period which coincides with ascending ambient UV-B radiation. In contrast, during autumn and early winter, a period which coincides with descending ambient UV-B radiation, flowering was unaffected by reduced UV-B radiation. We can conclude that natural UV-B radiation does not affect growth of Rosmarinus officinalis, but its reduction could influence the flowering pattern of the species.
20051114|In this study we analysed the effects of large herbivores on small rodent communities in different habitats using large herbivore exclosures. We studied the effects of three year grazing introduction by red deer (Cervus elaphus L.) in previously ungrazed pine and oak woodland and the exclusion of grazing by red deer, roe deer (Capreolus capreolus L.) and mouflon (Ovis ammon musimin L.) in formerly, heavily grazed pine woodland and heathland. At eight exclosure sites within each habitat type, small rodents were captured with live traps using trapping grids. At each trapping grid, seed plots of beechnuts (Fagus sylvatica L.) and acorns (Quercus robur L.) were placed to measure seed predation by rodents. Exclusion of grazing by large herbivores in formerly, heavily grazed habitats had a significant effect on small rodent communities. Inside exclosures higher densities of mainly wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus L.) and field voles (Microtus agrestis L.) were captured. Introduction of grazing by red deer appeared to have no significant negative effects on small rodent communities. The seed predation intensity of beechnuts and acorns by small rodents was significantly higher in ungrazed situations, particularly in habitats that were excluded from grazing. The differences between grazing introduction and exclusion effects on small rodent communities can be explained by differences in vegetation structure development. The recovery of heavily browsed understory vegetation after large herbivore grazing exclusion proceeded faster than the understory degradation due to grazing introduction. Small rodents depend on structural rich vegetations mainly for shelter. We conclude that large herbivores can have significant effects on vegetation dynamics not only via direct plant consumption but also through indirect effects by reducing the habitat quality of small rodent habitats.
41429364|Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop.) is an invasive, non-native plant in many terrestrial systems, often dominating plant communities, particularly in agricultural systems. Its invasion into forest systems is not well understood. Our objectives were to investigate the establishment, persistence, and abundance of C. arvense over a 7-year period following wildfire in a forest system, and to understand environmental factors related to variability in plant community composition. In 2006, we resurveyed 30 sites in young lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Dougl. ex. Loud. var. latifolia Engelm. ex Wats.) stands that burned during 1988 in Yellowstone National Park, and that had been previously sampled in 1999. C. arvense disappeared from six of nine sites where it was present in 1999, persisting in the remaining three sites; it also established at 4 new sites since 1999. Notably, the relative cover of C. arvense and other non-native plant species decreased during the 7-year period. Important ecosystem measures (plant species diversity and richness, aboveground net primary productivity, and leaf area index) were all higher in sites where C. arvense was present, and its abundance was higher on more fertile substrates and at lower elevations. Plant community composition was strongly influenced by gradients of soil texture and bare ground, rather than the presence or absence of non-native plant species. This project demonstrates the dynamic nature of an invasive species 18 years following a major disturbance, and suggests that intensive management of this species in forested systems is probably unnecessary.
20050793|Developmental instability is the result of random environmental perturbations during development. Its absence (developmental stability) depends on an organism's ability to buffer environmental disturbances. Both genotype and environment influence the phenotypic expression of developmental instability and it is susceptible to selection pressure. We studied developmental instability (as indicated by increased within-individual asymmetry of repeated traits) in vegetative and reproductive structures of three populations of Cistus ladanifer L. living in different soil substrates (serpentine, siliceous and contact zone) to detect tolerance to serpentine soils. Serpentine soils, characterized by high concentrations of heavy metals (Ni, Cr, and Co), low levels of Ca/Mg ratio and high water deficit, can adversely affect plant performance. In this study we demonstrated that asymmetry and within-plant variance were higher in the contact zone population than either the silica or serpentine populations, proving the adaptation of C. ladanifer to serpentine soils. Within-population estimates of developmental instability were concordant for both vegetative and reproductive traits. There was little or no within-individual correlation among estimates of developmental instability based on different structures, i.e., plants that had highly asymmetric leaves always had high developmental instability in translational symmetry. Radial asymmetry of petals was negatively correlated with petal size, especially in silica soil plants, providing evidence of selection for symmetric and large petals. While leaf size was positively correlated with absolute fluctuating asymmetry, suggesting selection for small or intermediate size leaves. Serpentine soils presented the largest foliar and floral traits, as well as shoot elongation, while silica soil plants had the smallest scores. On the contrary, aboveground plant biomass was larger in silica soil plants, while the contact zone plants had the lowest biomass.
20051313|We investigated flowering phenology and female reproductive success in two populations of Silene acutifolia in northwest Spain, over one year (population A) or two consecutive years (population B). Flowering phenology was similar in the two populations and two years. However, significant interannual and interindividual variation was detected in flowering start date, flowering finish date, flowering duration, relative flowering intensity, flowering synchrony index, and median flowering date (the date on which half a plant's flowers had opened). The between-year differences may be partly attributable to the fact that the first year was markedly warmer than the second year. The order in which individual plants started flowering was highly consistent between years, which may reflect genetic control and/or microhabitat heterogeneity. Multiple regressions with fruit set or seed set as the response variables indicated that none of the phenology descriptors, or number of flowers, were significant predictors of female reproductive success.
40926897|Stand dynamics was studied over 13 years in a cool-temperate conifer-hardwood forest, northern Japan. A total 30 hardwood species and one conifer, Abies sachalinensis, larger than 1.5 cm DBH were recorded. The total stand density was 1677 trees ha at the beginning, decreasing to 1184 trees ha (30% reduction) over the study period, but the total stand basal area was almost unchanged (about 49 m ha).This large reduction in total density was mainly due to the death of saplings and infrequent recruitment.Number of recruits gradually decreased with time, while that of dead trees was constant. Cause of death of small trees was mainly due to suppression by tall trees.Skewness of the DBH frequency distribution varied among the species. A less skewed frequency distribution (i.e., few number of saplings) was shown by shadeintolerant species such as Populus maximowiczii and Betula maximowicziana, and a more skewed frequency distribution (i.e., large number of saplings) by shadetolerant species such as Acer mono and Tilia japonica.DBH frequency distribution changed to less skewed patterns with reduction of density in most species during the census period. Rank of shade tolerance positively correlated with tree density and skewness, and negatively correlated with mean DBH. Skewness also positively correlated with recruitment rates. Furthermore, rank of shade tolerance positively correlated with seed size. These results suggest that shadeintolerant species regenerated immediately after disturbances by wide dispersal of small seeds, but their recruitment was interrupted after that. By contrast, shade-tolerant species were able to recruit even after the ceasation of recruitment of shade-intolerant species, but suffered severe mortality due to the increasing shading with the progress of stand development. This study suggests that the stand is still developing, with changes in species composition and size structure, and that species differences in shade tolerance and seed size are important for the stand structural changes.
24552025|Seed dynamics are an important part of the life history of plants and may have strong implications on abundance and spatial distribution of populations. In this study, we explored how seed dynamics (removal, predation, germination) interact with micro-environmental conditions to affect the spatial structure of populations of Brahea aculeata (Arecaceae) in a tropical dry forest. B. aculeata is distributed throughout arroyo basins and attains its highest densities near to arroyos/rivers. We hypothesized that: (i) seed removal, predation and germination vary across topographic positions resulting in greater palm abundances adjacent to arroyos and (ii) seed removers/predators respond to both a seed density-dependent effect and a microclimate effect. To test this, in six arroyos basins, seeds were sown across three topographic positions (stream, mid and top of basins) with two seed abundances (1 and 10), protected and nonprotected from potential predators. Predation, removal and germination were then followed. After 107 days, 100 % of the exposed seeds were removed/predated and none germinated. For seed removal, we found differences among topographic positions and seed densities with higher removal (up to 80 %) and lower predation rates for grouped seeds. Germination was only observed for protected seeds with higher germination rates in single (17 %  9) than in grouped seeds (4 %  1). The highest germination and establishment rates were adjacent to the streams; areas which had the lowest light intensity (mean  SE = 883  160 lm/ft2) and temperatures (mean  SE = 20.1  0.6 C), and highest humidity (mean  SE = 50.8  1.8 %), especially during the rainy season. Differential seedling establishment rates across the landscape due to spatial patterns of seed predation/removal as well as micro-environmental variables appear to have implications for shaping the spatial structure of B. aculeata population at Sierra de lamos, Mexico.
20146992|Soil seed banks that persist after a fire are important in fire-prone habitats as they minimise the risk of decline or local extinction in plants, should the fire-free interval be less than the primary juvenile periods of the species. In two common woody plant genera (Acacia and Grevillea) in southeastern Australia, we examined the size and location of the residual seed bank after fire across areas of varying seedling densities at three locations in comparison to the distribution of seeds in the soil at an unburnt site. We found viable dormant seeds remaining in the soil after fire (evidence of residual soil seed bank). A significantly lower proportion of seeds remained in the top 5 cm of soil than at 5-10 cm or 10-15 cm soil depths, independent of seedling density or plant genus. This was due to greater germination, and possibly some seed mortality, near the soil surface. Reduced germination below 5 cm was probably due to the reduced efficacy of the fire cues that break seed dormancy, a declining ability of seeds to emerge successfully from such depths, and the lower abundance of seeds in the soil at such depths. The magnitude of the residual seed bank was similar across 0-5, 5-10 and 10-15 cm soil depths in Acacia suaveolens. For two Grevillea species, most residual seeds were at 0-5 and 5-10 cm. The residual soil seed bank in the top 10 cm of soil after fire varied across sites with estimates of 0, 19 and 27% in G. speciosa and 23, 35, and 55% in A. suaveolens. At two sites, both species had similar residual seed bank sizes, while at a third, there were large differences between the species (0-55%). The observed patterns imply that the fire-related cues that break seed dormancy generally declined with soil depth. For Acacia, seed dormancy is broken by heat shock, a fire-cue that declines with soil depth. Some 250 species (approx 15% of the fire-prone flora) in the region are thought to have dormancy broken by heat shock. For Grevillea, where seed dormancy is broken by the interaction of smoke and heat shock, at two sites, we suggest three possibilities: (i) the smoke cue declined with soil depth; (ii) both heat and smoke are obligatory for breaking seed dormancy; or (iii) the cues may be independent and additive and below the zone of soil heating, only a proportion of available seeds had dormancy broken by smoke alone. At a third site (no residual seed bank detected) the smoke cue was predicted not to have declined with soil depth. Up to 900 species (just under half the fire-prone flora) in the study region are thought to have seed dormancy broken by the interaction of heat and smoke during the passage of a fire.
20051090|An area of coastal dune grassland, dominated by the gramineous species Calamagrostis epigeios and Carex arenaria, was exposed to enhanced levels of UV-B radiation during a five year period. These species showed reduced AM-fungal infection percentages in their roots. In C. epigeios AM infection was reduced by 18%, C. arenaria showed a reduction by 20%. The major effect of enhanced UV-B on AM associations was a reduction of the number of arbuscules. This indicates a reduction in the exchange of nutrients between the symbionts. Since the effect of UV-B on AM associations may result from altered flavonoid levels in the root exudates of the host plants, flavonoid levels in the roots were investigated. No detectable flavonoid concentrations were found in the roots of C. epigeios and C. arenaria. Less effective AM associations can have pronounced negative effects on biodiversity and nutrient dynamics of the dune grassland ecosystem. The possible mechanisms causing these indirect effects of elevated UV-B on below ground AM associations are discussed. We conclude that UV-B induced changes in plant hormone levels are more likely to be the mechanism reducing AMF infection than UV-B induced alterations in flavonoid concentrations in the root exudates of the host plant.
20050458|Vegetative and sexual recovery of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) was monitored in the field for three growing seasons after artificially applied spring and early summer frost. Bilberry recovered vegetatively (density and biomass) by vigorous production of new ramets and by production of large shoots in the damaged ramets. Recovery did not occur sexually (production of flowers), however. Summer frost was slightly more detrimental than the spring frost, but the difference was significant only in the percentage of flowering ramets. The results showed that bilberry is buffered against moderate frost injury. The rapid vegetative recovery guarantees survival of the plants after frost damage, whereas sexual reproduction may need accumulation of resources for many seasons. Consequently, the ability of bilberry to recover from sporadic frosts increases its potentiality to persist in a changing environment, where increasing temperature leads to earlier snowmelt in the spring, and increases the risk of frost injuries in plants that overwinter under snow.
20146668|Although soil fungi may represent an ecologically important cause of mortality of buried seeds, few studies have provided direct evidence of the pathogenicity of fungi colonizing seeds in natural habitats. In response, we conducted a series of experiments to investigate the impacts of soil fungi from a range of habitats on seeds of meadow plants. We compared the survival of seeds of four grasses in five habitats, and isolated fungi from these seeds. We then tested the pathogenicity of selected isolates against two standard sets of plant species: the original four grasses and a broad range of old field species. We found that the soil community contained a large variety of seed-colonizing fungi. Some, but not all, examples of these fungi caused seed mortality; others may be harmless commensals. Some of these isolates negatively affected a broad range of plant species, but others had a more restricted host range; as a result, pathogenicity varied depending upon the particular plant-fungus combination. Few between-habitat differences in seed survival were detected. Our results demonstrate that fungal seed pathogens are common, ubiquitous, and potentially lethal, but that their effects depend on the particular combination of fungus and plant species considered.
20050569|The objective of this research was to study the effects of type of fire, prefire-, and postfire-management on the postfire vegetation dynamics of a Pinus pinaster woodland in Central Spain, burned at 15 yr of age. The effects of type of fire (crown-, or surface-fire), prefire-management (thinning out of trees and clearing of brush or no such actions) and postfire-management (removal of burned trees one year after the fire or no such action) on the postfire vegetation were studied during the first three years after the fire. Herbaceous plant abundance, species richness, and diversity, as well as abundance, growth and density of the dominant shrub species (Cistus ladanifer) were measured during the first three years after the fire. Our results show that the effects of the type of fire on the vegetation were minimal. Prefire-management effects were significant on the abundance of herbaceous species, mainly during the second and third year after fire, in particular for the Leguminosae species. Prefire managed areas were more diverse in species, and produced higher plant biomass than unmanaged areas. Postfire-management effects on the shrubs and herbs were minimal, except for the Leguminosae, which increased their cover where the trees had been removed. Plant dynamics were marked by the interaction between prefire-management and fire-type through the dynamics of the shrub cover. On most occasions, plots that resulted in lower cover of C. ladanifer had greater abundance of herbaceous plants and, in particular, of the Leguminosae. In general, our results show that irrespective of fire-type, prefire-, or postfire-management all areas tended to be very similar in their vegetation three years after the fire.
40305628|Drought perturbation driven by the El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a principal stochastic variable determining the dynamics of lowland rain forest in S. E. Asia. Mortality, recruitment and stem growth rates at Danum in Sabah (Malaysian Borneo) were recorded in two 4-ha plots (trees  10 cm gbh) for two periods, 1986-1996 and 1996-2001. Mortality and growth were also recorded in a sample of subplots for small trees (10 to < 50 cm gbh) in two sub-periods, 1996-1999 and 1999-2001. Dynamics variables were employed to build indices of drought response for each of the 34 most abundant plot-level species (22 at the subplot level), these being interval-weighted percentage changes between periods and sub-periods. A significant yet complex effect of the strong 1997/1998 drought at the forest community level was shown by randomization procedures followed by multiple hypothesis testing. Despite a general resistance of the forest to drought, large and significant differences in short-term responses were apparent for several species. Using a diagrammatic form of stability analysis, different species showed immediate or lagged effects, high or low degrees of resilience or even oscillatory dynamics. In the context of the local topographic gradient, species' responses define the newly termed perturbation response niche. The largest responses, particularly for recruitment and growth, were among the small trees, mamy of which are members of understorey taxa. The results bring with them a novel approach to understanding community dynamics: the kaleidoscopic complexity of idiosyncratic responses to stochastic perturbations suggests that plurality, rather than neutrality, of responses may be essential to understanding these tropical forests. The basis to the various responses lies with the mechanisms of tree-soil water relations which are physiologically predictable: the timing and intensity of the next drought, however, is not. To date, environmental stochasticity has been insufficiently incorporated into models of tropical forest dynamics, a step that might considerably improve the reality of theories about these globally important ecosystems.
20050645|The penetration of natural and artificial
20146470| It has been hypothesized that plants cannot tolerate combined shade and drought, as a result of morphological trade-offs. However, numerous plant species are reportedly widespread in shaded forest understories that face drought, whether seasonal or occasional. We studied juveniles of six plant species that cope with strong summer drought in the understoreys of mixed Quercus forests in southern Spain: the tall-shrubs Phillyrea latifolia and Viburnum tinus, the perennial herb Rubia peregrina, the small shrub Ruscus aculeatus, and climbers Hedera helix and Smilax aspera. All of these species persist in evergreen shade (c. 3% daylight). Two other species were studied as comparators, Ruscus hypoglossum, less tolerant of drought, and Ceratonia siliqua, less tolerant of shade. Morphological and chemical variables relevant to shade and drought tolerance were measured for juveniles in a range of sizes, and also for the leaves of mature plants. The species converge in features that confer tolerance of shade plus drought by reducing demand for resources. Demand for water is reduced through a moderate to high below-ground mass fraction and low to moderate specific leaf area (respectively 0.22-0.52 and 112-172 cm g at 1.00 g total dry mass). Demand for both irradiance and water is reduced through a low to moderate foliar nitrogen concentration and long-lived, physically protected leaves ( 2 yr). The species also converge in features that confer tolerance of either low irradiance or drought through specialized capture of resource, without precluding the other tolerance. These features include deep roots relative to shoot size, moderately higher specific leaf area in shade (1.2-2.0  that in sun) and higher chlorophyll:nitrogen ratio in shade. Foliar chlorophyll per unit mass was higher in shade, but chlorophyll was not necessarily synthesized in greater amounts; rather, it was higher apparently due to shade effects on structural features linked with specific leaf area. In contrast, N per unit mass was higher in sun leaves independently of specific leaf area. Despite these convergences, the species diverge considerably in their root mass allocation and architecture, leaf saturated water content, density of stomata and guard cell size. No single narrowly defined functional type is needed for tolerance of shade plus drought. 
20051257|Forest structure and species composition were described in abandoned shade and sun coffee plantations and abandoned pastures in Puerto Rico. Forest structural characteristics were similar to older forest sites after approximately 30 yr of recovery. The historical presence of shade coffee plantations as the dominant agricultural activity in the region has resulted in the homogenization of secondary forest composition. The continuous dominance of Coffea arabica and species used for shade in abandoned shade coffee contributed to a slower rate of species composition change in comparison to abandoned pastures. Abandoned pastures were initially colonized by a group of light demanding and/or wind dispersed species and then by shade tolerant species characteristic of abandoned shade coffee plantations, suggesting that the secondary forests of abandoned shade coffee plantation are the major source of species in this landscape. The presence of a few isolated big trees in sun coffee plantations appeared to facilitate colonization of woody species similar in composition to abandoned shade coffee plantations. In a multivariate analysis, time since abandonment and elevation were the variables that explained the majority of variability in species composition among sites. However, a few native species (e.g. Guarea guidonia, Casearia sylvestris, Ocotea leucoxylon) were common regardless of land use history or elevation. In contrast, important old forest species (e.g. Sloanea berteriana, Dacryodes excelsa, Manilkara bidentata) were rare or absent from most of the secondary forest stands suggesting the need to reintroduce these species. Land management and conservation efforts can be improved by incorporating the effects of land use history on secondary forest dynamics.
20051067|We compare results of parallel ground and canopy netting of bats (Microchiroptera) in three adjacent forest sites near Belm, Brazil, to document possible differences in vertical distribution of species. We caught 1871 individuals representing 49 species of three families (Emballonuridae, Phyllostomidae, Vespertilionidae). Capture effort, totaling 1955.5 mistnet hours in several cycles over a two-year period, was similar for ground and canopy nets. The canopy rigs yielded more species (n = 41) than the ground nets (n = 35), but both samples were characterized by rank abundance curves with similar shape and with a dominance of frugivores (Phyllostomidae). Nearly half (n = 24) of the species were captured in numbers too small (n &lt 6) to allow firm classification, but differences in capture frequencies of some of the better-sampled species in high and low nets reveal vertical stratification. Species-specific differences in diet, foraging strategies, roost sites, and sampling bias contribute to this pattern. As a result of the differential use of space among bats, alterations of forest structure are likely to result in changes in structure and function of local bat communities, but our limited knowledge of natural history and ecology of many species limits definition of changes. We see a critical need for further research into the extent to which habitat complexity influences species richness and abundance of bats. This information is especially important in view of the need to develop and apply conservation-oriented programs to maintain biodiversity. A review of recent improvements in techniques for inventorying bats shows that a combination of methods, including mistnetting and acoustic monitoring, is mandatory for such studies.
20050577|Wet sedge-dominated communities (sedge meadows) were sampled in five lowland oases in the Queen Elizabeth Islands of the Canadian High Arctic to assess species-environment relationships. The sites spanned 4 of latitude, and varied in lithology and intensity of grazing by muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus). A suite of 8 vascular species were common in all meadow stands, with an additional 4-6 species found in most stands. The position of these species in dominance-diversity curves was not significantly different between grazed and ungrazed meadows however, the grazed sites appeared to follow a log-normal distribution, while the ungrazed sites were more geometric. Redundancy analysis indicated that grazing intensity is important in determining structure in arctic sedge meadows, largely through increasing the cover of bryophytes and the availability of nitrogen. Greatest species richness was found in the more southerly sites which were moderately grazed and had diversity in microtopography.
41508663|Resprouting can be an important means of regeneration for forest tree species resulting in multistemmed architecture, especially at less productive or frequently disturbed sites. However, the cost of resprouting may be traded off against growth or reproduction. In subtropical coastal forest in South Africa, trees grow on steep, sandy dunes with unstable soils and low to moderate nutrient availability. These coastal forests experience seasonally strong anticyclonic winds from August through October. We examined the hypothesis that basal resprouting resulting in multiple stems causes lower rates of sexual reproduction and recruitment by individuals. We examined whether trees traded off resprouting against seed output, seed size, seedling abundance and recruitment by seedlings. Species were designated as good and poor resprouters based on their frequency of multi-stemmed individuals at Cape Vidal. Good resprouters had more stems, produced less seed and had lower seed mass than poor resprouters, and had lower seedling abundance and fewer individuals in small diameter classes than large diameter classes. Seedling abundance in good resprouters was not influenced by the availability of understorey gaps. Good resprouters were most abundant on dune crests and seaward slopes that were exposed to sea winds. Persistence of established individuals by producing multiple stems from basal resprouts is important where a chronic disturbance regime potentially reduces the survivorship of single-stemmed individuals and thereby their opportunities for reproduction. Good resprouters appear to trade-off recruitment of new individuals for multiple stems that increase the persistence of established ones against disturbance. We conclude that multi-stemming arising from basal resprouts has evolved to promote individual persistence under low to moderate intensity but pervasive wind stress.
40305463|The knowledge of broad-scale floristic variation in wet grasslands, which are endangered throughout Europe, is still limited and some regions have remained unexplored so far. In addition, hitherto published phytosociological studies were concentrated at the national level and therefore national vegetation classifications are not consistent with each other. In order to overcome these shortcomings of traditional phytosociology, we gathered original data from Bulgaria and analysed them together with the data from Central Europe. We further analysed major compositional gradients within Bulgarian wet grasslands and changes in species richness along them. We sampled 164 wet grassland vegetation plots throughout Bulgaria. We further prepared a restricted data set of wet grasslands from Central-European phytosociological databases. Both data sets were merged and classified by modified TWINSPAN. Four distinct vegetation types were differentiated. Even if they correspond with traditional alliances, which are primarily drawn as geographically defined units in Western and Central Europe (sub-Mediterranean Trifolion resupinati, sub-continental Deschampsion cespitosae and Molinion caeruleae and sub-oceanic Calthion palustris), they all occur in Bulgaria. When more precise classification was applied, two types of sub-Mediterranean wet grasslands and one highaltitude type of Calthion grasslands were detected solely in Bulgaria. DCA analysis showed that altitude is a dominant gradient controlling variation in Balkan wet grasslands. The second DCA axis was interpreted as the gradient of nutrient availability. Species richness shows skewed-unimodal trends along both major gradients, with the highest species richness in intermittently wet nutrient-limited grasslands. Tukey post-hoc test of altitudinal differences amongst vegetation types is significant for all pairs of clusters, suggesting that altitudinal differentiation is responsible for co-occurrence of nearly all European types of wet grasslands in Bulgaria. Our results suggest that (1) climate is an important factor for the diversity of wet grasslands; (2) Balkan vegetation of middle altitudes matches with that of Central Europe, whereas that of the lowest altitudes corresponds rather to the sub-Mediterranean region and high mountains are specific; (3) upward shift of Central-European vegetation types in southern Europe, so often described in forest vegetation is also evident for grassland vegetation and (4) the high diversity of Balkan vegetation is determined by a diverse relief enabling confluence of habitats possessing different climatic conditions.
23362478|Community structure at local scales is a major factor controlling population and community dynamics of plant species. Dicerandra immaculata Lakela var. immaculata (Lamiaceae) is a critically endangered plant known only from a few locations in scrub habitat in Florida. Using seven sites where populations of D. immaculata were wild, introduced, and/or extirpated, we sought to answer the following questions: (1) how do habitat characteristics at locations supporting wild D. immaculata plants vary from random locations within the same habitat; (2) how do habitat characteristics differ between wild and extirpated populations; and (3) how do habitat characteristics differ between wild and introduced populations? At locations of wild D. immaculata, community structure had fewer woody stems, shorter understory vegetation, lower percent canopy coverage, and lower percent ground cover of detritus than random locations and locations with extirpated D. immaculata. In addition, bare ground decreased at extirpated locations because other plant species expanded their coverage, water saturation of the soil increased, diversity of shrubs decreased, and composition of the overstory changed compared to that of wild locations. Habitat characteristics associated with introduced plants were more similar to characteristics at randomly chosen locations than those with wild plants. However, introduced plants tended to occupy locations that had drier soil, a higher abundance of conspecifics, and a higher proportion of woody understory plants than that of random locations. Overall, gaps in the canopy and at ground level are likely essential for survival and recruitment of D. immaculata.
23267475|Although grazing livestock may have direct negative effects on woody species through herbivory and trampling, (heavy-)grazing is often associated with woody plant encroachment. Two main mechanisms can explain the positive effects of grazers on woody cover: (1) Grazers reduce the interspecific competition with trees and may reduce fuel load, and (2) gut passage through livestock increases seedling establishment by scarification (increased germination) and fertilization by dung (higher survival and growth of seedlings). We tested the effects of fire, grass, cattle ingestion (transit) and dung on germination, seedling height and survival as well as on recruitment of Acacia sieberiana in a sub-humid grassland of South Africa. About 8,000 seeds were planted in the field in a randomized block design. The removal of grass by grazing and/or fire had the most important effect on Acacia recruitment in savanna. Our findings highlight the hierarchy of the main factors affecting Acacia recruitment, which provides new insights to the understanding of woody plant encroachment.
40305720|Post-fire conditions are characterized by enhanced light and the availability of nitrogenous compounds in the soil. It is not known, however, to what extent light or nitrogenous compounds control the germination response of species growing in burned areas and, in particular, whether functional groups of plants differ in their response. The germination response to light and nitrate was tested for 53 species representative of the flora of a Mediterranean recently burned area in Central-Eastern Spain. Differences in germination among species, with and without taking into account their phylogeny, were studied by classifying them according to their life-form (chamaephytes, hemicryptophytes), regeneration strategy (non-sprouters, sprouters) and geographical distribution range (Iberian Peninsula endemics, Mediterranean, widely distributed species). The overall germination mean was not affected by any of the two treatments. There were statistically significant interactions between species and the two treatments. That is, not all species were equally affected, and about 30% of the species were significantly affected by light (half of them positively and the other half negatively) and 25% by nitrate (most of them positively). Species response was related to functional groups. Light response (stimulation vs. non-stimulation) was associated to life-form, regeneration strategy and distribution range. Hemicryptophytes, sprouters and widely distributed species were positively affected by light. No evidence of such an association for nitrate was found. No statistically significant effects of light and nitrate on the mean germination of the various groups (life-form, regeneration strategy, distribution range) were found. Moreover, significant interactions emerged between light and nitrate for all three groups. In summary, the studied set of plants appears to be nondependent on factors that may change with fire, such as increased light and soil nitrate, for germination. Nonetheless, some species and groups will be affected by such changes. That means that fire will modify the relative balance of germination among species and functional groups. Due to the particular sensitivity of Iberian Peninsula endemics to light, a factor that significantly changes with fire, these species may be at risk under the current fire regime.
20146718|In order to characterize the main areas of natural forest on Terceira Island (Azores), some of the most interesting European forests due to their rich and diverse flora of endemic as well as relict species, six forest stands were studied and their flora inventoried using 226 randomized quadrats, which revealed one anthocerote, 64 liverworts, 41 mosses and 16 macrolichen taxa. The alpha-diversity of the samples is particularly species-rich, some quadrats (30  30 cm) including more than 25 bryophyte species. A quantitative analysis of the vegetation-environment relationships consistently showed that the distributions of the native forest bryophytes and lichens of Terceira are governed by a complex set of factors related to water availability, the status of the substrata and the influences of the vascular plant community. Considering the generally high values of the Srensen indices and the low number of specialist species found with Lloyd's index, the differences are more in terms of dominance of species than in terms of species composition. In fact, substratum type was clearly important in the DCA and TWINSPAN analysis using species cover abundance values, largely explaining the distribution of bryophyte species between Juniperus brevifolia (Seub.) Antoine and Laurus azorica (Seub.) Franco bark. The eight putative plant community type groupings achieved with these multivariate methods were able to elucidate some major bryophyte -- substratum relationships, that had not previously been considered and they offer a framework for future research.
23500371|To explore the traits contributing to invasion success of Eupatorium adenophorum, a noxious invasive perennial forb throughout the subtropics in Asia, Oceania, Africa, and USA, we compared the differences in ecophysiology and phenology between the invader and native E. japonicum under eight treatment combinations of two irradiances and four nitrogen additions in a two-year shadehouse experiment. The invader had significantly higher mass-based light-saturated photosynthetic rate (P max ) than its native congener in all treatments, contributing to higher photosynthetic nitrogen-, phosphorus-, and energy-use efficiencies. The higher P max of the invader was associated with its higher nitrogen concentrations in the photosynthetic apparatus, which resulted from higher leaf nitrogen allocation to photosynthesis. The invader had higher specific leaf area and stomatal conductance at most of the treatments, also contributing to its higher P max . The invader was not constrained by the negative correlation between leaf lifespan and specific leaf area or P max . Leaf lifespan and total leaf area of the invader were greater than those of the native. From November to March the native congener was leafless, whereas the invader maintained a large area of leaves with relatively high P max . Biomass accumulated in these months accounted for more than 40 % of the total biomass of the invader. Our results indicate that both the ability to capture and utilize resources efficiently and the ability to use resources when they are unavailable to natives contribute to invasion success of E. adenophorum and emphasize the importance of exploring multiple, non-mutually exclusive mechanisms for invasions.
40607003|Lygodium microphyllum (Cav.) R. Br., a climbing fern native to the Pantropics of the Old World, is aggressively colonizing natural ecosystems in the Florida Peninsula. Here, we examined soil factors that might affect the fern's invasiveness, specifically addressing the hypothesis that a release from natural belowground enemies contributes to its vigorous growth in Florida. We also investigated phenotypic differences of sporophytes raised from spores collected in Florida and the fern's native range in Australia, hypothesizing that the Florida population would possess traits resulting in faster growth and superior competitive ability than the two Australian populations. We tested our hypotheses in parallel greenhouse experiments one in Australia using soil from the fern's native habitat, and another in Florida, USA, with soil from a recently colonized ecosystem. Fern growth rate and its principal determinants were expressed relative to the optimal growth with a common sand culture in each experiment and compared among treatments in which soil was altered through either sterilization or nutrient amendment, or both. Contrary to the expectation, the optimal growth rates in the sand culture were higher for Australian populations than the Florida population, while the comparatively poor growth of all populations in unaltered soil was stimulated by nutrient amendment and sterilization. The overall effect of sterilization, however, was muted under high-nutrient conditions, suggesting that the effect of soil sterilization may be due to greater nutrient availability in sterilized soils. The only exception was the local population from the site where the soil was collected for the experiment in Australia, which grew significantly faster in sterilized than in non-sterilized soil, and also more rapidly in response to soil insecticide application. Our results indicate that the invasiveness of L. microphyllum in Florida is not a simple phenotypic difference in inherent growth rate as predicted by the evolution of increased competitive ability hypothesis, but it may be mediated in part by release from soil-borne enemies that vary in their effectiveness even within the native geographical range of the fern.
41508853|In this article, we compared the resistance of two introduced populations of Elodea nuttallii and Elodea canadensis to two different herbivores. Samples were collected from the River Rhine and River Rhne in eastern France. The two populations of E. nuttallii differed in their introduction history, whereas E. canadensis was introduced at the same time in the two sites. The Daily Food Consumption (DFC) rates of the two macrophyte populations were evaluated in no-choice experiments using the scraper Lymnaea stagnalis and the shredder Gammarus roeseli. At the same time, we assessed four plant traits: dry matter content (DMC), total nitrogen content, carbon/nitrogen ratio and total phenolic content. The two populations of E. canadensis were consumed at low levels by both the herbivores. L. stagnalis showed a higher DFC on the Rhne population of E. nuttallii than on the Rhine population. No significant difference between the two populations was established with G. roeseli, but the level of DFC was high. This result demonstrates that the assessment of plant palatability should be carried out with several generalist herbivores belonging to various feeding groups (e.g. scrapers or shredders). Although the Rhne population of E. nuttallii had higher levels of phenols than the other populations, it was consistently consumed in greater quantities than E. canadensis. Neither the phenolic contents were not effective against these herbivores, nor the levels of phenolics too low to induce an efficient resistance. The higher DMC and the lower DFC of the two populations of E. canadensis suggest that this introduced plant has co-evolved with indigenous enemies in the introduced range.
20050412|Studies of the effects of increases in ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation on plants and terrestrial ecosystems have been undertaken using a variety of methods including: controlled-environment cabinets, glasshouses, outdoor filtration and outdoor supplementation using fluorescent UV-B lamps. Outdoor supplementation systems provide a method of study which creates only small alterations to the microclimate and the number of such studies has increased during the past 3 years. These supplementation systems differ in their methods of operation, equipment, UV-B exposure regime and experimental design. This essay surveys the systems currently developed, considers problems associated with their use and discusses these in relation to the interpretation of biological effects.
23500418|Few studies have assessed directly the impact of warming on plant growth and biomass production in the High Arctic. Here, we aimed to investigate the impact of 7 years of warming (open greenhouses) on the aboveground relative growth rate (RGR) of Cassiope tetragona and Salix arctica in North-Eastern Greenland. RGR was assessed for apical (leaves, stem, reproductive organs) and lateral meristems (secondary growth of stem and branches) and accompanied by measures of gross ecosystem production (GEP), branching and tissue carbon (C) concentration. Measurements were based on harvest and biometric methods (for RGR and branching) and gas exchange and chemical analysis (for GEP and C concentration). Warming nearly doubled the apical RGR of Cassiope, whereas it did not affect the apical RGR of Salix. Similarly, secondary growth increased for Cassiope but not for Salix. In particular, warming enhanced the secondary growth of old stem segments of Cassiope formed before the treatment began. The increase in Cassiope RGR was associated with an increase in gross photosynthetic uptake, branching and C concentration in old green tissues. Overall, the different growth measures consistently indicated that temperature limits the growth of Cassiope but not that of Salix in North-Eastern Greenland. Summer warming thus has the potential to stimulate biomass production in the High Arctic but major species-specific differences are expected.
41412383|Secondary succession following land abandonment, represented by a chronosequence of 15 old fields (0-80 years old) and two old-growth forests, was studied in the tropical montane cloud forest region of Veracruz, Mexico. The objective was to determine successional trajectories in forest structure and species richness of trees 5 cm DBH, in terms of differences in seed dispersal mode, shade tolerance, and phytogeographical affinity. Data were analyzed using AIC model selection and logistic regressions. Mean and maximum canopy height reached values similar to old-growth forest at 35 and 80 years, respectively. Species richness and diversity values were reached earlier (15 and 25 years, respectively) while basal area and stem density tended to reach old-growth forest values within 80 years. Along the chronosequence, the proportion of species and individuals of wind-dispersed trees declined, that of bird dispersed small seeded trees remained constant, while that of gravity and animal dispersed large seeded trees increased; shade-intolerant species and individuals declined, while intermediate and shade-tolerant trees increased. Shade-tolerant canopy trees were rare during succession, even in the old-growth forest. Tropical tree species were more frequent than temperate ones throughout the chronosequence, but temperate tree individuals became canopy dominants at intermediate and old-growth forest stages. the chronosequence, the proportion of species and individuals of wind-dispersed trees declined, that of bird dispersed small seeded trees remained constant, while that of gravity and animal dispersed large seeded trees increased; shade-intolerant species and individuals declined, while intermediate and shade-tolerant trees increased. Shade-tolerant canopy trees were rare during succession, even in the old-growth forest. Tropical tree species were more frequent than temperate ones throughout the chronosequence, but temperate tree individuals became canopy dominants at intermediate and old-growth forest stages.
40212962|Experiments were carried out to test the effects of liming and nutrient additions on plant growth and soil processes such as C and N mineralisation in three contrasting forest types in central Amazonia: the stunted facies of heath forest (SHF), the tall facies of heath forest (THF) and the surrounding lowland evergreen rain forest (LERF). Calcium-carbonate additions increased soil respiration in the field plots in the SHF; in laboratory incubations, soil respiration was higher in the SHF when soils were fertilised with N, and in THF and LERF after S additions. The addition of N alone or in different combinations generally induced a net immobilisation of soil N. Net nitrification increased during the incubation in SHF and THF soils fertilised with N+P, and in LERF soils fertilised with either N, or P, or CaCO. In a field experiment using ingrowth bags, a higher fine root production was observed in all forest types when bags were fertilised with CaCl or CaCO, suggesting that Ca may be a limiting nutrient in these soils. Calcium- carbonate addition in a glasshouse bioassay experiment with rice showed an overall positive effect on the survival and growth of the seedlings. In other treatments where soil pH was not raised, the rice showed acute toxicity symptoms, poor root and shoot growth and high mortality. Similar results were yielded in a field experiment, using naturally established seedlings in the field plots in SHF, THF and LERF. It is concluded that the acute H + ion toxicity is a major growthlimiting factor for non- adapted plants in heath forest soils in central Amazonia.
20146876|Clonal integration may be adaptive and enhance the genet performance of clonal plants. Degree of clonal integration may differ between different environments. Here, a container experiment was used to determine how clonal integration affected the performance of the stoloniferous herb Duchesnea indica at two sites with different altitude along the transitional zone between the Qinghai-Tibet plateau and the Sichuan basin of Southwest China. In the experiment, the stolon between partially shaded two ramets experienced severing and intact treatments. We predicted that clonal integration would increase performance of whole clonal fragments and their shaded clonal parts at both sites. In both arctic and alpine environments, clonal plants may form highly integrated plant units (group of ramets). We predicted again that the reduction due to stolon severing in performance of whole clonal fragments and their shaded clonal parts would be greater at the site with high altitude than one with low altitude. The results indicated that the benefit for the shaded clonal parts and whole clonal fragments due to clonal integration was only observed at the site with high altitude. The results suggest that the performance of Duchesnea indica tends to be more responsive to the stolon severing at the site with high altitude than one with low altitude and support the second prediction. In addition, the effects of conditions of the sites and clonal integration on local morphological traits of ramets may be adaptive, five morphological traits of ramet-level (length of petiole, mean stolon internode length, specific petiole weight, specific stolon internode weight and specific leaf area) were investigated. Altogether, the results suggest that clonal integration might help D. indica plants to successfully inhabit the high-altitude habitat of the Qinghai-Tibet plateau of Southwest China, providing new evidences for the notion that clonal integration is an adaptive trait in stressful environments.
20146804| Temporal changes and spatial variation of soil drainage and understory light availability in 2001 and 2002, small stem (5  dbh (diameter at breast height) &lt 10 cm) density, forest successional phase and large stem (dbh  10 cm) spatial distribution were investigated in 1 ha of tropical swamp forest in southeastern Brazil. Building patches and treefall gaps comprised, respectively, 69.75 and 7.5% of the area in 2002. Semivariograms indicated spatial segregation of successional phases, with mature areas predominating in the North and gaps aggregated into the South. Exclusion of outliers showed large unpredictability of background variation in canopy openness, but patches with high canopy openness values concentrated along the South and East plot borders. Overall canopy openness increased from 2001 to 2002, and was locally autocorrelated between years. In 2001, well-drained and flooded sites comprised 46.75 and 38.19% of the study area, respectively, and were not spatially autocorrelated. In the study period, the number of flooded sites decreased by 40.4%. Canopy openness and small stem density were independent from drainage and were not correlated. Large trees aggregated at scales larger than 40 m, while arborescent palms were aggregated at all scales. Our findings suggest that tropical swamp forests have architectural characteristics similar to that of young, secondary forests and treefall gaps in old-growth forests. Patterns at larger scales pointed to the occurrence of widespread forest degradation, which seems to be particularly advanced in some forest sectors. 
40607012|Trait-based resource competition in plants, wherein more similar plants compete more strongly for resources, is a foundation of niche-based explanations for the maintenance of diversity in plant communities. Alternatively, neutral theory predicts that community diversity can be maintained despite equivalent resource requirements among species. We examined interactions at three life history stages (germination, survival, and juvenile-adult growth) for three native and three exotic California annual species in a glasshouse experiment. We varied plant density and species composition in small pots, with pots planted with either intraspecific seeds or in a three species mix of intra-and interspecific neighbors. We saw a range of facilitative, neutral, and competitive interactions that varied significantly by species, rather than by native or exotic status. There were more competitive interactions at the emergence and juvenile-adult growth stages and more facilitative interactions for survival. Consequently, the relative strength of competition in intraspecific versus mixedspecies communities depended on whether we considered only the juvenile-adult growth stage or the entire life history of the interacting plants. Using traditional analysis of juvenile-adult growth only, all species showed negative density-dependent interactions for final biomass production. However, when the net effect of plant interactions from seed to adult was considered, which is a prediction of population growth, two native species ceased to show negative density dependence, and the difference between intraspecific and mixed-species competition was only significant for one exotic species. Results were consistent with predictions of neutral, rather than niche, theory for five of six species.
41508671|In North America, most Artemisia (Asteraceae) shrub species lack the ability to resprout after disturbances that remove aboveground biomass. We studied the response of one of the few resprouting Artemisia shrubs, Artemisia filifolia (sand sagebrush), to the effects of prescribed fires. We collected data on A. filifolia density and structural characteristics (height, canopy area, and canopy volume) in an A. filifolia shrubland in the southern Great Plains of North America. Our study sites included areas that had not been treated with prescribed fire, areas that had been treated with only one prescribed fire within the previous 5 years, and areas that had been treated with two prescribed fires within the previous 10 years. Our data were collected at time periods ranging from  to 5 years after the prescribed fires. Density of A. filifolia was not affected by one or two fires. Structural characteristics, although initially altered by prescribed fire, recovered to levels characteristic of unburned areas in 3-4 years after those fires. In contrast to most non-sprouting North American Artemisia shrub species, our research suggested that the resprouting A. filifolia is highly tolerant to the effects of fire.
20146938| The decrease in temperature with increasing elevation may determine the altitudinal tree distribution in different ways: affecting survival through freezing temperatures, by a negative carbon balance produced by lower photosynthetic rates, or by limiting growth activity. Here we assessed the relative importance of these direct and indirect effects of altitudinal decrease in temperature in determining the treeline in central Chile (33S) dominated by Kageneckia angustifolia. We selected two altitudes (2000 and 2200 m a.s.l.) along the treeline ecotone. At each elevation, leaf non-structural carbohydrates (NSC) and gas exchange parameters were measured on five individuals during the growing season. We also determined the cold resistance of K. angustifolia, by measuring temperatures that cause 50% seedling mortality (LT) and ice nucleation (IN). No differences in net photosynthesis were found between altitudes. Although no differences were detected on NSC concentration on a dry matter basis between 2000 and 2200 m, when NSC concentration was expressed on a leaf area basis, higher contents were found at the higher elevation. Thus, carbon sink limitations may occur at the K. angustifolia's upper altitudinal limit. For seedlings derived from seeds collected at the 2200 m, LT of cold-acclimated and non-acclimated plants were -9.5 and -7 C, respectively. However, temperatures as low as -10 C can frequently occur at this altitude during the end of winter. Therefore, low temperature injury of seedlings seems also be involved in the treeline formation in this species. Hence, a confluence of global (carbon sink limitation) and regional (freezing tolerance) mechanisms explains the treeline formation in the Mediterranean-type climate zone of central Chile. 
24553732|The spread of non-native plants has been depicted as a serious threat to biodiversity. However, it remains unclear whether the indigenousness of the invading plant plays a marked role for the ecological consequences of an invasion as few studies have compared the ecological impacts of non-native shrubs with structurally or functionally comparable native shrubs. We studied patches of introduced and native shrubs to assess whether there are general differences in plant species composition or biomass between patches formed by non-native versus native shrubs. The indigenousness of the shrub (non-native vs. native) did not explain the variation in soil nutrients, neither the production of shoot biomass or allocation of growth to different parts of the shoot. The amount of light reaching ground level did not differ between patches of a non-native and a native shrub. However, species richness and biomass of herbaceous plants were lower in patches of non-native than native shrubs and the amount of litter was higher below non-native than native shrubs. Our results suggest that the indigenousness of the patch-forming plant may be an important factor for the diversity and composition of associated herbaceous vegetation. Based on our results, resource availability (light and nutrients) is not a sufficient explanation for the negative effects of non-native shrubs on plant communities. Further research is needed to investigate whether alternative explanations, such as the novelty of the toxic compounds produced by non-native plants, can explain the differences we observed.
23267464|The idea that invasive species have higher recruitment and tolerate a wider range of conditions than native species requires more rigorous examination across a range of community types. We aimed to compare the recruitment and distribution patterns of adults and seedlings of an exotic invasive plant, glossy buckthorn (Frangula alnus), with four co-occurring native shrub species within a heterogeneous Wisconsin wetland. Detailed vegetation survey data were analyzed for spatial and compositional patterns of shrub distributions. In adult plant frequency and cover, buckthorn was not significantly different from the native winterberry. However, the number of glossy buckthorn seedlings exceeded by more than seven times the combined number of seedlings of the four native species. Sample units containing buckthorn adults were also much more likely to contain seedlings than for native shrubs. However, native seedlings were not more likely to occur at sites lacking adults, suggesting no greater dependence on recruitment away from adults in native species. Buckthorn, winterberry, poison sumac, and dogwood all showed preference for sites with higher tree densities and lower predominance of obligate wetland species in an ordination of 114 species. Glossy buckthorn adults and seedlings and winterberry seedlings were more widely distributed across seven community types than adults and seedlings of the other native species, suggesting broad tolerance to the conditions in different community types. High recruitment is the key factor that may allow glossy buckthorn to overcome community resistance and spread.
20146671|Based on resource allocation theory, a negative correlation is predicted between resource availability and plant defense against herbivore attack. Plants growing in resource-limited environments should display lower growth and higher defense against herbivores than plants growing where resources are less limited. Interspecific comparisons generally support these predictions. We evaluated this hypothesis at the intraspecific level, for two sapling populations of the canopy tree Dialium guianense (Caesalpiniacease) at the Lacandona rain forest in southeast Mexico. The two populations occur in nearby sites, adjacent to the Chajul Field Station, under the same climatic conditions and within the same vegetation type, but with considerable differences in soil quality. The Floodplain site, under the influence of the Lacantn River, has favorable conditions for plant growth, in terms of nutrient and water availability, whereas the Hills site, given its location and soil characteristics, provides more restricted conditions for plant growth. Plants in the Floodplain site had higher growth and lower concentration of phenolic compounds than plants in the Hills (a two-fold difference in leaf area production, 1.3 less total phenolics). These differences were correlated with differences in herbivore attack, as saplings from the Hills, with a higher defensive potential, had lower average levels of herbivory than Floodplain plants (3.86%  0.80 vs. 7.75%  1.43 of leaf area loss). The relationship between the concentration of phenolic compounds and leaf quality for herbivores was consistent with preference assays carried out under laboratory conditions using two species of generalist herbivores, the army worm Spodoptera fugiperda and the native katydid Orophus sp. In 63.8 and 81.3% of the cases, third-instar larvae of S. fugiperda and adults of Orophus, respectively, preferred leaflets from the Floodplain plants population. Moreover, on average, the adults of Orophus consumed 2.9 times more leaf area from the Floodplain than from the Hills. In addition, a reciprocal transplant experiment indicated that phenotypic plasticity is likely to be the mechanism by which the plants expressed differential growth and traits affecting herbivory levels. In this experiment, growth and herbivory levels were 1.6 and 1.7 times higher, respectively, in plants transplanted into a Floodplain experimental plot than those in a Hills plot. This work contributes to our understanding of how edaphic heterogeneity can determine intraspecific variation in the relationship of plants with their herbivores and evaluates the underlying mechanisms promoting such influence.
20050841|The Brazilian Atlantic rainforest harbours at least 129 non-volant mammal species. There is also a diverse and numerous epiphytic flora associated with this Neotropical rainforest, including several species of Araceae. Nevertheless, knowledge of the ecology of this group of plants and its interaction with animals is poor. In this study we investigated the interactions between epiphytic aroids and arboreal mammals in the Atlantic forest. We carried out the field work between November 1995 and June 1997 in the Parque Estadual Intervales, southeastern Brazil, a still well preserved forest area of approximately 490 km. We analysed faecal samples from primates (Cebus apella and Brachyteles arachnoides), collected during observations in the field, and marsupials (Didelphis aurita, Micoureus demerarae, Gracilinanus microtarsus), collected from animals captured monthly or bi-monthly in livetraps. We recorded 17 species of Araceae in the study area. The seeds of eight species occurred in the faecal samples: Anthurium harrissi, Monstera adansonii, Philodendron corcovadense, P. appendiculatum, P. exymium, P. crassinervium, P. obliquifolium, and Heteropsis oblongifolia. Aroids were present in faecal samples of the primates during most of the year, with a mean monthly percentage of occurrence of about 56.2%. For marsupials, aroids also were a seasonally important food source, as between November and June the mean monthly percentage of occurrence in faecal samples was about 26.5%. Our data indicate that aroids are an important food source for arboreal and semi-arboreal mammals and that these animals may play an important role as seed dispersers of this group. Aroids and arboreal mammals appear to interact more strongly in Atlantic forest than in other Neotropical forests.
40802417|The objective of this study was to identify the major environmental variables and components of forest structure associated with variability in tree species richness on a network of 806 permanent plots in the State of Jalisco, Mexico. Tree data recorded on the sample plots were used to characterize tree species richness by forest type and climatic conditions (temperature and precipitation) in the State. Species composition and other diversity indices were also calculated. Explanatory variables identified in a Poisson regression identified forest cover type, elevation, tree basal area, canopy closure, and winter precipitation as being important to changes in tree species richness. An "extreme quantile curve estimation" approach was then used to approximate the boundary that represented the maximum potential species richness response to the various levels of important variables. Maximum tree species richness decreased with increasing elevation. The relationships between maximum species richness and tree basal area, canopy closure, and winter precipitation followed a hump-back unimodal model, with intermediate values supporting the largest species richness. We believe that results of the current study will contribute to further development of a conservation plan for tree species in the State of Jalisco, Mexico.
20146858|The applicability of p-coumaric acid and ferulic acid concentrations or ratios in (sub)fossil plant remnant as UV-B proxies relies on various aspects, which are discussed in this paper and will be illustrated with some experimental data. A newly developed THM-micropyrolysis-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method was tested on various spores, pollen and other plant remains, which were analysed for the presence of the UV-absorbing compounds p-coumaric acid and ferulic acid. This revealed that these supposed building-blocks of sporopollenin appear to be present in pollen of many plant species but also in moss spores. The development of this micropyrolysis method paved the way for the quantitative analysis of UV-absorbing compounds in case only a small amount of analyte is available, for example for fossil pollen and spores but also other small palynomorphs and plant fossils. The use of this technique will provide a better insight in the plant responses to UV-radiation, the chemistry of pollen and spores, their fossil counterparts and furthermore the means for a further development of a proxy for the reconstruction of past UV-B radiation.
40305683|Short-term changes in plant species number, frequency and composition were studied along an altitudinal gradient crossing four summits from the treeline ecotone to the subnival zone in the South Alps (Dolomites, Italy). Large-scale (summit areas) and small-scale patterns (16 plots of 1 m/summit) were monitored. After 5 years, a re-visitation of the summit areas revealed a considerable increase of species richness at the upper alpine and subnival zone (10% and 9%, respectively) and relatively modest increases at the lower alpine zone and the treeline ecotone (3% and 1%, respectively). At the small scale, the results were partly different, with species richness decreasing at the lower summits and increasing at the higher summits. The changes can most likely be attributed to climate warming effects and to competitive interactions. The main newcomers at the lower three summits were species from the treeline and the lower altitudinal zones. Only at the highest summit, the newcomers came from the alpine species pool. At the treeline ecotone, the abundance of Pinus cembra, of dwarf shrubs and clonal graminoid species increased. Here, displacements of alpine species may be predicted for the near future. At the higher summits, expansions of the established alpine species and further invasions of species from lower altitudes are forecasted.
20051232|The response of woody species to experimental burning, cutting and ploughing was studied for a period of twelve years in a shrub community in NW Spain. The treatments represent the perturbations most frequently imposed by man on these shrub communities throughout history. The response to burning is much faster than the response to cutting. The response to ploughing is slower due to the regeneration mechanism that species use: germination. In general, the dominant species, Erica australis, influences the regeneration patterns of the rest of the species, which make up the community. There is a significant increase in the cover of woody species until the fourth year, and of herbaceous species until the third year. Subsequently, Erica australis attains dominance, returning to its original spatial occupancy and cover values, removing the herbaceous species and negatively influencing the growth of woody ones like Halimium umbellatum, Halimium alyssoides and Quercus pyrenaica. Both Erica australis and Chamaespartium tridentatum regenerated by sprouting in the burnt and cut plots, and by germination in the ploughed plot. Arctostaphylos uva-ursi only recovers after burning and ploughing. Halimium alyssoides, Halimium umbellatum, Erica umbellata and Calluna vulgaris regenerate by germination in the three plots. Differences in cover values and spatial occupancy during the first years of succession tend to be eliminated twelve years after treatment and most of the species tend to recover their initial cover values. These shrubland communities have a high degree of resilience due to the strong sprouting potential of the component species.
40802423|Urban habitats are generally considered highly invaded by exotic species due to the frequency and extent of disturbance caused by human activities and development. Our previous study had demonstrated that forested wetlands within residential areas are more extensively invaded than wetlands within industrial-commercial areas. In this study, we investigate whether the structure of the forest edge and seed dispersal can explain the differential in the invasion of wetlands surrounded by industrial and residential land use. Our results indicate that edges of industrially bordered wetlands are denser, with vegetation concentrated at the boundary of tree growth, whereas the edges of residentially bordered wetlands are more open and diffuse. This difference influences the number of seeds and species capable of dispersing into the wetland. Less dense edges resulted in a higher number of seeds entering residential wetlands; however, there were no differences in the numbers of exotic seeds or exotic species in the seed rain residential and industrial wetlands. Although seed dispersal could not directly explain differences in the current extent of invasion of these sites, seed dispersal did follow corridor pathways, including ditches and trails that breach the edges and extend through the wetlands. These disturbances act as corridors for seed dispersal into both types wetlands and may play a role in introducing new species to the interior of the wetland, an outcome supported by a higher number of exotic species in the seed banks of residential sites. Our results suggest that both the type of adjoining land use and the provision of access to people on trails in urban wetlands can affect the composition of these communities.
41686753|The distribution of resprouting and reseeding woody plants may be limited by the frequency of disturbances. Such species have a high probability of persisting in frequently and rarely disturbed habitats and may co-occur at intermediate disturbance frequencies. Nonetheless, resprouters and reseeders of the genus Hypericum co-occur in frequently burned pine savannas of southeastern North America. We predicted that these congeners would sort along a fire frequency gradient resulting from fine scale variation in topography and soil moisture. We examined habitat associations of a resprouter (H. microsepalum), facultative reseeder/resprouter (H. brachyphyllum), and reseeder (H. chapmanii) that occur along Northern Florida pine savanna ecoclines. We sampled five belt transects of 50 continuous 1 x 1 m plots for edaphic characteristics, fire spread, and densities of each species. Hypericum microsepalum was associated with upland, drier pine savannas where fires are frequent and typically burn uniformly across landscapes (2-3 year fire frequency). In contrast, H. brachyphyllum and H. chapmanii were associated with intermediate mesic areas where fires burn increasingly patchily downslope along ecoclines from upland flatwoods to lowland wet depressions (10-30 year fire frequency). Hypericum species of all life histories co-occur in intermediate areas where small changes in topography and edaphic characteristics generate a fire frequency gradient on a local scale. In pine savannas, fires vary from frequent to infrequent on a local within-landscape level as a function of elevation gradients. We conclude that the occurrence of such fire gradients along ecoclines should facilitate co-occurrence of plants with different life histories and thereby increase overall biodiversity.
20146552| We developed a nested vegetation sampling protocol to sample the plant diversity on south-facing cliffs and cliff bases in Jefferson County, Colorado. The multi-scale plots included three nested spatial scales, 1 m, 20 m, and 40 m. We compared plant species richness and species diversity among large cliffs, medium cliffs, small cliffs, and non-cliff sites using Hill's diversity numbers (N, N, and N) for the 1-m quadrats. Species richness (N) was calculated for the 20-m and 40-m plots. Our results indicate that plant species diversity on the cliff faces did not increase with increasing cliff area. This pattern was consistent at all three sampling scales. A model selection was run to determine if plant species diversity values on the cliff faces were associated with cliff variables. None of the cliff variables measured were good predictors of diversity at the 1-m scale. However, at the 20-m scale, canyon differences and a positive relationship with increasing cliff surface roughness explained 70% of the variability in species richness. Although most plant species sampled on the cliff faces were also found in the base plots, 13 species were sampled only on the cliff faces. Additionally, dry south facing cliffs support a mix of xeric and mesic plants indicating that cliffs may provide unique microenvironments for plant establishment. 
41508687|Aboveground and belowground processes in plants are intimately linked because the resources that must be divided among growth, maintenance, and development of essential structures are finite. To determine how aboveground insect herbivory affects root-system size, morphology, interactions with soil biota, and temporal patterns in the development of root systems, we grew the legume Lespedeza capitata in sunken pots in a restored prairie in south-central Kansas. The plants were manipulated in a factorial experiment that involved reduction of natural herbivory with insecticide and age of plant at harvest (2,4, or 6 months). Herbivory reduced the aboveground sizes of plants throughout the growing season but did not affect their belowground size or root-system branching ratio. Further, the failure of aboveground insect herbivory to affect density of nitrogen-fixing nodules on L. capitata roots suggests that plants did not shift allocation of carbon to compensate for naturally occurring levels of folivory. We suggest that conservation of root-system structure or low rates of change in root-system structure in response to aboveground insect herbivory may be an adaptive strategy in environments with scarce soil resources, for example near species' xeric range limits.
41508786|Abiotic factors often are the most important factors influencing a species' distribution. Nevertheless, when investigating the underlying causes of a species' distribution, it is important to assess both the abiotic and the anthropogenic factors (land-use variables) that might have influenced the species' distribution. That is especially true in the Mediterranean Basin, where natural ecosystems have undergone significant changes in response to anthropogenic pressures in the region. In this study, we examined the effects of abiotic and anthropogenic factors on the distribution of Quercus faginea in the Spanish Central Pyrenees. Information on the presenceabsence of Q. faginea, and abiotic and anthropogenic variables, were derived using GIS based on digital maps and aerial photographs. To identify and quantify the factors that have affected significantly the spatial distribution of Q. faginea, we used Bayesian Model Averaging and hierarchical partitioning. In the Spanish Central Pyrenees, on a broad scale, abiotic variables; i.e. climate and lithology, were the factors that had the greatest effect on the spatial distribution of Q. faginea; however, recently introduced pine plantations and previous livestock pressure have had a negative effect on the distribution of Q. faginea in the region.
40802421|Didymopanax pittieri is a common shadeintolerant tree colonizing treefall gaps in the elfin forests on windswept ridgecrests in the lower montane rain forests of the Cordillera de Tilaran, Costa Rica. All D. pittieri taller than > 0.5 m in a 5.2-ha elfin forested portion of a gridded study watershed in the Monteverde Cloud Forest Preserve were located, mapped, and measured. This local population of D. pittieri is spatially inhomogeneous, in that density increases with increasing wind exposure; D. pittieri are more abundant near ridge crests than lower on windward slopes. The important and ubiquitous phenomenon of spatial inhomogeneity in population density is addressed and corrected for in spatial analyses by the application of the inhomogeneous version of Ripley's K. The spatial patterns of four size classes of D. pittieri (< 5 cm dbh, 5-10 cm dbh, 10-20 cm dbh, and > 20 cm dbh) were investigated. Within the large-scale trend in density driven by wind exposure, D. pittieri saplings are clumped at the scale of treefall gaps and at the scale of patches of aggregated gaps. D. pittieri 5-10 cm dbh are randomly distributed, apparently due to competitive thinning of sapling clumps during the early stages of gap-phase regeneration. D. pittieri larger than 10 cm dbh are overdispersed at a scale larger than that of patches of gaps. Natural disturbance can influence the distribution of shade intolerant tree populations at several different spatial scales, and can have discordant effects at different life history stages.
23500359|In submediterranean ecosystems macro-environmental stress gradients (winter cold stress and summer drought stress linked to elevation, slope aspect, and angle) affect forest distribution and composition. We hypothesized that in the herb layer of submediterranean deciduous woods (central Apennines), environmental stress gradients, jointly with overstory type, determine patterns of reproductive strategies, which are supported by different acquisitive/retentive traits. We used indicator species analysis, canonical redundancy analysis, and variance partitioning to identify the main gradients of trait variation, detect trait patterns, and assess the contribution of each environmental variable to the explanation of trait variability. Our results indicated that reproductive traits, related to resource acquisition and conservation strategies, showed a pattern mainly linked to the joint effect of altitude and overstory type and, second, to slope aspect. Species with both sexual and vegetative propagation, more abundant than those reproducing only sexually, did not show any trend. Below 1,000 m a.s.l. the long-lasting growing season favored traits aimed at efficient light and soil resource acquisition and space exploitation (e.g., persistent green leaves, runners, tap roots, medium sized seeds) that support a long reproductive cycle. Over 1,000 m a.s.l. the intense and long-lasting winter cold stress and the shorter growing period fostered traits aimed at fast growth and reproduction (e.g., self-pollination, low seed weight, spring and overwintering green leaves), and at stress tolerance (rhizomes, bulbils).
41508811|Plant adaptations minimising costs of burial responses are vital in mobile dune ecosystems. Conventionally, the burial responses of dune plants have been measured as vertical growth. However, a model developed here shows that growth normal to accumulating non-horizontal dune surfaces requires up to 18% less stem production than vertical growth. To determine whether dune plants grow with this optimal geometry a field survey of growth trajectories was made for three coastal plants, and a greenhouse experiment tested whether plants could actively change growth trajectories away from vertical. In the field and greenhouse partial burial resulted in shifts towards vertical growth, indicating that negative gravitropism is the major response to burial, and reduces the amount of stem needed to respond to burial relative to unburied growth trajectories. However, for two species in the field many buried stems grew closer to optimal (shorter) than vertical, mostly on northward, sun-facing dunes. Thus phototropism is the major stimulus for non-vertical growth, and coincides with optimal trajectories on north-facing dunes. Arctotheca populifolia also displayed non-vertical growth after burial on steep south-facing dunes, but responded to burial in the greenhouse with vertical growth. Measurements of the pressure of sand avalanches occurring on dune slipfaces and stem elasticity indicated that deep avalanches were sufficient to orient the flexible shoots of A. populifolia towards optimal trajectories. Thus, dune plants respond to burial by actively modulating growth towards vertical via negative gravitropism, and passively towards non-verticalmore optimaltrajectories via photo tropic growth and the influence of sand avalanches.
24552023|Topsoil transfer is an important tool in ecological restoration, but as a technique for relocating woodland habitats displaced by development works it would appear highly damaging to geophytes present in the field layer. The effect of moving soil using different handling techniques was simulated in pot experiments with two common geophytes, Hyacinthoides non-scripta (L.) Chouard ex Rothm. and Anemone nemorosa L., while longer term changes in Hyacinthoides populations were also followed at an active woodland translocation field site in South East England, UK. In the pot experiment, artificially damaging Hyacinthoides bulbs restricted their performance, as did planting at sub-optimal depths and orientations, but Anemone rhizomes were little affected either by damage or displacement. Provided that they were able to produce leaves and thus reallocate biomass to their perennating organs, recovery of both species was rapid in the following season. In the field, Hyacinthoides bulb densities also eventually recovered to levels reported in semi-natural woodlands in autumn-translocated soil profiles, although bulb biomass was still significantly lower in spring-moved treatments after three growing seasons. The parent bulbs rapidly adjusted their orientation and depth in the soil profile and were enhanced by natural seedling recruitment. The results suggest that, provided careful soil handling protocols are followed, these woodland geophytes have the capacity to recover if soil translocation is restricted to their dormant period. In the longer term, the sudden change from woodland to open conditions may be detrimental and may increase competition from non-woodland species.
20050445|Morphological -- anatomical features of the terrestrial and the aquatic life form of the rosette species Littorella uniflora, inhabiting nutrient poor soils of oligotrophic lakes, were investigated together with growth rates of both life forms and of transplants. Growth rates were the same for the two life forms. However, growth of transplanted plants was somewhat reduced by transition from one environment to another. This was especially true for aquatic plants, which may be stressed by desiccation when moved to the terrestrial environment. The morphological -- anatomical differences between the life forms were small compared with many other amphibious species which produce highly specialized leaves and life forms in air and under water. It is suggested that the conservative leaf morphology of Littorella is a consequence of the high dependence on rhizospheric CO of both the aquatic and the terrestrial form of Littorella, making production of leaves specialized for carbon uptake in one specific environment unnecessary.
41429069|Elevated CO is expected to lower plant nutrient concentrations via carbohydrate dilution and increased nutrient use efficiency. Elevated CO consistently lowers plant foliar nitrogen, but there is no consensus on CO effects across the range of plant nutrients. We used meta-analysis to quantify elevated CO effects on leaf, stem, root, and seed concentrations of B, Ca, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, P, S, and Zn among four plant functional groups and two levels of N fertilization. CO effects on plant nutrient concentration depended on the nutrient, plant group, tissue, and N status. CO reduced B, Cu, Fe, and Mg, but increased Mn concentration in the leaves of N fixers. Elevated CO increased Cu, Fe, and Zn, but lowered Mn concentration in grass leaves. Tree leaf responses were strongly related to N status: CO significantly decreased Cu, Fe, Mg, and S at high N, but only Fe at low N. Elevated CO decreased Mg and Zn in crop leaves grown with high N, and Mn at low N. Nutrient concentrations in crop roots were not affected by CO enrichment, but CO decreased Ca, K, Mg and P in tree roots. Crop seeds had lower S under elevated CO. We also tested the validity of a "dilution model." CO reduced the concentration of plant nutrients 6.6% across nutrients and plant groups, but the reduction is less than expected (18.4%) from carbohydrate accumulation alone. We found that elevated CO impacts plant nutrient status differently among the nutrient elements, plant functional groups, and among plant tissues. Our synthesis suggests that differences between plant groups and plant organs, N status, and differences in nutrient chemistry in soils preclude a universal hypothesis strictly related to carbohydrate dilution regarding plant nutrient response to elevated CO.
40802425|Summer-green herbs inhabiting deciduous forests often put out aerial shoots under bright conditions before tree-canopy closure and grow until late summer under the closed canopy. Some of them produce leaves continuously even after the initiation of canopy closure, indicating an exploitation of the low light period. The manner of carbon assimilation during bright and shade periods within a growth season should reflect the seasonal patterns of vegetative growth and reproductive allocation of individual species. We examined the seasonal patterns of assimilation, partitioning of photosynthate between reproduction and storage, and the budget of reproduction of a perennial understory herb, Parasenecio auriculata. Although photosynthetic rates per unit leaf area decreased with the seasonal reduction in light level, net assimilation at the whole-plant level was maintained at a high level even after canopy closure owing to the increase in the total leaf area. Stored resource in tubers contributed to the rapid development of aerial shoots in the early season, and annual tuber growth was completed before flowering. Instant photosynthetic products considerably contributed to the maintenance of flowers but not to fruit development because of low assimilation rate during fruiting. These findings indicated that carbon assimilation during flowering contributes to sexual reproduction without influencing the development of storage organs. Stable carbon assimilation over summer by shade-acclimatized leaves enabled the maintenance of high productivity associated with high sexual reproduction.
41508721|Invasion success is favoured by the introduction of pre-adapted genotypes. In addition, novel pressures in the introduced range may lead to phenotypic changes related to fitness or competitive ability of introduced plants. Polyploidy appears to be over-represented in invasive plants, but differences between cytotypes in growth strategies including trade-offs among plant traits have received little attention so far in the context of biological invasions. We grew Centaurea stoebe L. and Senecio inaequidens D.C. in a greenhouse experiment to test for differences in fitness (shoot biomass, reproductive output) and competitive ability (vegetative size, specific leaf area, leaf dry matter content, root-shoot ratio) between diploid and polyploid cytotypes as well as between native and introduced plants. For both species, diploid and tetraploid genotypes occur in the native range, whereas only tetraploids are present in the introduced range. In the native range of both species, diploid and tetraploid genotypes had different growth strategies. Tetraploid genotypes of C. stoebe and S. inaequidens had, respectively, higher specific leaf area and stem height than diploid ones. Thus, for both species, native tetraploids appeared more competitive than native diploids, which could explain, at least partially, the invasion success of the pre-adapted tetraploid genotypes. The comparison of native and introduced tetraploid genotypes revealed differences in traits linked to competitive ability, which could be linked to novel selection in the new environment. In S. inaequidens, we found evidence for a competition-colonisation trade-off, whereas persistence of C. stoebe in the new range seemed to be linked to a competition-defence trade-off.
20146527|In the present study epiphytic bryophytes were employed as a model system in an integrated way both as bioindicators at species, population and community levels and as bioaccumulators of airborne trace elements. Twenty sites with Quercus ilex trees were chosen in a Mediterranean area both in urban and natural locations, with an altitude ranging from 0 to about 500 m a.s.l., in coastal and inland areas (Campania, Italy). Data on the presence of species, cover values and phenology were recorded for each site and the Index of Atmospheric Purity (IAP) was calculated. The data matrix of frequency/cover  species was analysed by multivariate methods. Data obtained clearly show that in urban sites the number of species and IAP values are lower, and that acrocarpous mosses and vegetative reproduction occur more frequently. Contents of trace elements (Al, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pb, Ti, V, Zn) were measured in four species and concentrations were normalised to the soil pattern by calculating the Enrichment Factor (EF). The results show the large contribution of resuspended soil particles to the chemical composition of the analysed bryophytes. All the examined species were enriched in Cd, Cu and Zn, and in some cases showed high EF for Pb. The differences among epiphytic bryophyte vegetation are discussed in order to evaluate suspected alterations due to human impact and/or environmental change.
41686812|We evaluated 25 years of change in windimpacted oak and pine-dominated sites in the Cedar Creek Ecosystem Science Reserve, Minnesota, USA. We address the question: how did the storm alter stand architecture and spatial pattern and how did this affect recovery and recruitment? We mapped and marked all stems greater than 1 cm in diameter in a 0.25 ha oakdominated plot and a 0.30 ha pine-dominated plot. After the initial sampling in 1983, plots were resurveyed four times in the 25 years following the windstorm. We used ordination and diameter distributions to describe compositional and structural characteristics of the sites. The stands are compositionally converging after the windstorm with both moving towards a late-successional forest type dominated by shade-tolerant tree species. The architecture in both sites is similar through time; sites have transitioned from bimodal diameter distributions to reverse-J distributions. We used Ripley's K point pattern analysis to assess spatial patterns of tree mortality and recruitment within each site. In the pine site, surviving trees were significantly clumped, but mortality and recruitment patterns did not significantly differ from random. In the oak site, the storm did not substantially alter the spatial pattern of surviving trees, but subsequent recruitment was significantly associated with trees killed by the storm at scales within 6-8 m and significantly dissociated with surviving trees at scales greater than 1 m. The dynamics of accelerated succession observed here are mediated by the damage and mortality initially sustained and its corresponding effects on spatial patterns of surviving and recruiting trees.
20051199|The interrelationships between biomass characteristics and soil properties (including in situ annual nitrogen mineralization) were statistically investigated in a descriptive study using a broad range of plant communities in unfertilized road verges. Not only the dependence of biomass characteristics on soil properties, but also the possibility of inferring soil nutrient availability from biomass characteristics was investigated. Possible effects of vegetation management (mowing) and overstory trees (shading) were accounted for. Annual aboveground biomass production was mainly explained by annual N mineralization, average soil moisture content, shading intensity, and soil pH (optimum at pH-CaCl 5.7). Average tissue nutrient concentrations were primarily explained by mowing frequency, shading intensity, the availability of the corresponding soil nutrient, and pH (optima between 5.5 and 6.0). Results also implied that making hay twice per year removes more nutrients than a single cut at the end of the season. N mineralization may be inferred from the aboveground biomass production, but only across sites with equal moisture and shading conditions (partial r = 0.74). In general, it is concluded that nutrient availability can only be deduced from biomass characteristics if sites with similar moisture content are compared. The only exception to this general rule is K availability. The latter was mainly indicated by the K concentration in vegetation biomass (partial r = 0.80), and the confounding effect of other factors was small (bivariate r was still 0.71). Soil available P could not be satisfactorily indicated, even across sites with equal moisture and shading conditions. Also, different nutrients appeared to interact, and should not be considered in isolation. K was the only element with a strong relationship between its soil and tissue concentration. For the other nutrients, tissue concentrations did not depend predominantly on the soil availability. It seems most likely that the species occurring in semi-natural vegetation are adapted to the local fertility by means of their physiology or growth rate. It is concluded that, with the possible exception of K, simple relationships between soil properties and biomass characteristics cannot be expected over wide environmental gradients.
20146912| Canopy tree recruitment is inhibited by evergreen shrubs in many forests. In the southern Appalachian mountains of the USA, thickets of Rhododendron maximum L. restrict dominant canopy tree seedling survival and persistence. Using R. maximum as a model system, we examined available light under the thickets and the photosynthetic responses of seedlings of canopy tree species. We tested the hypothesis that the additional shading from under R. maximum drives carbon gain in seedlings below the threshold for growth and survival. A reduction in light under the thicket was found where canopy openness (derived from canopy photographs) under R. maximum was half the amount measured in forest without R. maximum. R. maximum also reduced direct radiation by 50% and diffuse radiation by 12-29% compared to forest without the shrub layer. Mean mid-day PPFD (photosynthetically active photon flux density between 1000 and 1400 h) under R. maximum (obtained from quantum sensors) was below 10 mol m s on both clear and overcast days and the amount of sunflecks greater than 10 mol m s PPFD was only 0-20 min per day. In contrast, forest without R. maximum received a mean PPFD of 18-25 mol m s on clear days and a cumulative sunfleck duration of 100-220 min per day in all sky conditions. Consistent with light availability between the sites, daily carbon gain in Quercus rubra L. seedlings was lower in forest with R. maximum compared to forest where the shrub was absent. The presence of the shrub layer also significantly suppressed average mid-day photosynthesis of both Q. rubra and Prunus serotina Ehrt. seedlings on 8 out of 11 measurement dates. However, parameters derived from light response curves between seedlings growing in forest sites with or without a thicket of R. maximum was significantly different only in
20050605|This study investigates the riverine vegetation along the perennial Omo River, which flows from the Ethiopian highlands to its terminus, in the southwestern lowlands, at Lake Turkana (formerly Lake Rudolf). Broadly defined to include the levee backslopes and adjacent mudflats (or ancient floodplains), the riverine zone in the lower Omo basin supports a relatively luxuriant vegetation compared with the dry grasslands in the surrounding plains environments. Habitat conditions along the lower Omo have changed significantly during the past century, primarily due to a period of reduced rainfall and river flow, a drop in lake level (L. Turkana) at the river's terminus and increased exposure of natural levees near the Omo's terminus. The floristic and physiognomic character of riverine vegetation were studied at selected sites, ranging from the relatively straight channel section in the modern delta to a strongly meandering (upstream) section of the river. A combination of open canopy woodland, shrub thicket and grassland (with scattered tree emergents) prevailed on the more recently exposed levees, in and near the modern delta; closed canopy woodland and forest predominated on fore levees in the meandering segment. Floristic diversity was relatively low at all study sites. Ficus sycomorus, Tapura fischeri, Melanodiscus oblongus, Celtis integrifolia and Trichilia roka were most significant in upstream forest sites, whereas Cordia sinensis, Acacia mellifera, Ziziphus mauritiana and Ficus sycomorus were more common in communities nearer the lake. Older forests generally contained greater diversity of more woody species, greater tree height and truck diameter than downstream levee vegetation, but they did not exhibit clear stratification. Species patchiness was broadly characteristic of the riverine zone, particularly the mudflats (ancient floodplains) extending away from the fore levees. Fires are frequently set by local inhabitants throughout the grasslands of the lower Omo Basin; within the riverine zone, they are particularly common in the mudflats but have only limited impact on woodland and forest vegetation. It is suggested that fire is a highly significant factor in the establishment of sharp boundaries between the closed canopy woodland/forest along the river and the more xerophytic vegetation of the mudflats.
20050765|Syneilesis palmata reproduces by both seeds and vegetative propagules (short rhizomes). The latter result in the production of new plants that are larger in size and hence have a higher survival probability and a higher growth rate than seeds. A previous study predicted that the optimal reproductive strategy, in terms of maximizing population growth rate (a fitness measure under no density regulations), was pure vegetative reproduction. However, high resource investment to vegetative propagules can cause local crowding resulting in reduced demographic performances of the plants, because the vegetative propagules of Syneilesis are produced close to one another. We examined, in this situation, the impact of allocating a certain proportion of reproductive resource to seeds with relatively greater capacity for dispersal. We simulated dynamics of hypothetical Syneilesis populations with various reproductive resource allocation balances (from pure seed to pure vegetative reproduction), using a density-dependent matrix model. In the model, it was assumed that plants from vegetative propagules experienced density-dependent reduction in their survival probabilities, but this was not the case for plants originating from seeds. Each allocation strategy was evaluated based on an equilibrium population density, a fitness measure under density-dependent regulations. The optimal reproductive strategy predicted was pure vegetative reproduction. Unrealistic conditions were required for seed reproduction to be favoured, such as the production of seeds one hundred times the normal number per unit resource investment. However, the conditions were fairly relaxed compared with those required in the model where no density effects were incorporated. This indicates that escape from local crowding is likely to be one of the roles of seed production in Syneilesis.
40305651|Early emergence of plant seedlings can offer strong competitive advantages over later-germinating neighbors through the preemption of limiting resources. This phenomenon may have contributed to the persistent dominance of European annual grasses over native perennial grasses in California grasslands, since the former species typically germinate earlier in the growing season than the latter and grow rapidly after establishing. Recently, European perennial grasses have been spreading into both non-native annual and native perennial coastal grass stands in California. These exotic perennials appear to be less affected by the priority effects arising from earlier germination by European annual grasses. In addition, these species interactions in California grasslands may be mediated by increasing anthropogenic or natural soil nitrogen inputs. We conducted a greenhouse experiment to test the effects of order of emergence and annual grass seedling density on native and exotic perennial grass seedling performance across different levels of nitrogen availability. We manipulated the order of emergence and density of an exotic annual grass (Bromus diandrus) grown with either Nassella pulchra (native perennial grass), Festuca rubra (native perennial grass), or Holcus lanatus (exotic perennial grass), with and without added nitrogen. Earlier B. diandrus emergence and higher B. diandrus density resulted in greater reduction in the aboveground productivity of the perennial grasses. However, B. diandrus suppressed both native perennials to a greater extent than it did H. lanatus. Nitrogen addition had no effect on the productivity of native perennials, but greatly increased the growth of the exotic perennial H. lanatus, grown with B. diandrus. These results suggest that the order of emergence of exotic annual versus native perennial grass seedlings could play an important role in the continued dominance of exotic annual grasses in California. The expansion of the exotic perennial grass H. lanatus in coastal California may be linked to its higher tolerance of earlieremerging annual grasses and its ability to access soil resources amidst high densities of annual grasses.
23267450|Although the problem of plant invasions is expected to increase with climate change, there is as yet little experimental evidence, in particular, for the effects of extreme weather events. We established communities of European meadow species, which were subjected to warming and extreme event (drought and deluge) treatments in a factorial design at an experimental garden in Zurich, Switzerland. Phylogenetically matched pairs of native and alien species (Bromus erectus, B. inermis, Trifolium pratense, T. hybridum, Lactuca serriola, and Conyza canadensis) were introduced into the communities to test if invader performance is favored by warming and extreme events, and if alien invaders perform better than native colonizers. With a warming of on average 0.3 C, a higher cover of native plant communities was observed, while drought decreased cover in the short-term and lowered biomass. Germination, survival, and growth of the introduced species were lower under elevated temperature. Survival of all pairs and growth of Trifolium was greater in drought pots, while deluge had no effect. While the alien species showed a faster rate of increase in the number of leaves, mortality of alien species was greater than of native species. Overall, the performance of the focal species varied much more among taxonomic groups than native/alien provenances. The results suggest that with climate change, different types of extreme events will differ in the severity of their effects on native plant communities. Meanwhile, the effects of climate change on plant invasions are more likely to operate indirectly through the impacts on native vegetation.
40305612|Species co-occurrence at fine spatial scales is expected to be nonrandom in relation to species phylogenetic relatedness and functional similarity. On the one hand, closely related species that occur together and experience similar environmental conditions are likely to share phenotypic traits due to the process of environmental filtering. On the other hand, species that are too similar are unlikely to co-occur due to competitive exclusion. We surveyed a woodland cerrado, southeastern Brazil, to test whether co-occurrence in tree species shows functional or phylogenetic structuring at fine spatial scale. Searching for correlations between an index of species co-occurrence and both functional trait differences and phylogenetic distances, we provided evidence for a predominant role of environment filters in determining the co-occurrence of functionally similar tree species in cerrado. However, we did not find any effect of phylogenetic relatedness on tree species co-occurrence. We suggest that the phylogenetic relatedness of co-occurring cerrado tree species did not present a pattern, because the species functional traits were randomly distributed on the phylogeny. Thus, phylogenetic relatedness and functional similarity do not seem to limit the co-occurrence at fine spatial scale of cerrado tree species.
41508685|Shifts in canopy structure associated with nonnative plant invasions may interact with speciesspecific patterns of canopy resource allocation to reinforce the invasion process. We documented differences in canopy light availability and canopy resource allocation in adjacent monospecific and mixed stands of Phragmites australis and Typha spp. in a Great Lakes coastal wetland presently undergoing Phragmites invasion to better understand how light availability influences leaf nitrogen content (N mass ) and photosynthetic capacity (A max ) in these species. Due to their horizontally oriented leaves, light attenuates more rapidly in monospecific stands of Phragmites than in monospecific stands of Typha, where leaves are more vertically-oriented. Whereas Typha canopies followed our prediction that patterns of N mass and A max should closely parallel patterns of canopy light availability, N mass and A max were consistent throughout Phragmites' canopies. Moreover, we observed overall greater N mass and lower photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiency in leaves of Phragmites than in leaves of Typha. Improved understanding of the link between N mass and A max in these canopies should improve our understanding of carbon and nitrogen cycling consequences of Phragmites invasion in wetland ecosystems.
20050413|Daily and weekly fluctuations of PAR, UV-A, and UV-B have been continuously monitored for 5 months in Ancient Korinthos, Greece (3758 N, 230 E) using a calibrated instrument based on 3 sharp band sensors. Daily dose ranged between
20050985|Despite the large spatial extent and the obvious importance of the savanna biome, not to mention several decades of savanna research, the origin, age, nature, and dynamics of savannas are not well understood. Basically, the question surrounding the presence or existence of savannas focuses on the long-term coexistence of the dominating life forms -- trees and grasses. How do these two very different components coexist, without one of them dominating the other, and what mechanisms determine the proportion of each? Earlier equilibrium concepts have recently been replaced by non-equilibrium concepts, and the current view is that tree-grass interactions in savannas cannot be predicted by a simple model. Instead, many interacting factors operating at various spatial and temporal scales contribute to creating and maintaining savanna physiognomy. In this paper we analyse a number of studies from savannas in different parts of the world and discuss whether a general pattern can be perceived behind the numerous factors influencing the presence of savannas systems. On the basis of this analysis we propose a new unifying concept of savanna existence, i.e., the concept of ecological buffering mechanisms. In contrast to previous approaches to explain tree-grass coexistence in savannas, the concept of buffering mechanisms does not focus on equilibria or non-equilibria, steady states of the system or domains of attraction. Instead, in the concept of ecological buffering mechanisms we suggest that it is much more useful to focus on the boundaries of savanna existence itself and to investigate the mechanisms that allow a savanna to persist in critical situations where this system is driven to its boundaries, e.g., pure grasslands or tropical forests. The concept of ecological buffering mechanisms integrates both earlier concepts of ecological theory and general ideas on savanna dynamics as well as specific studies of savannas in different parts of the world.
20146617| Diversity of tree association and forest structure were analysed in relation to microtopography and flooding intensity in a tropical freshwater swamp forest in the Sinnamary river basin, French Guiana. A 530-m-long vegetation transect was established through a hummock-hollow terrain. Nine 10 m  50 m sample plots, perpendicular to the main transect, were located so that each was as microtopographically uniform as possible. Trees with dbh (diameter at 1.3 m)  10 cm were censused in all plots and trees with 2 cm  dbh &lt 10 cm in three plots. Sixty tree species belonging to 39 genera and 30 families were recorded. The study area was divided into low and high sites according to microtopography and flooding intensity. According to the Czekanowski similarity matrix, the tree association in low, most frequently flooded, sites differed from that in the high sites under intermediate or low flooding intensity. The low sites had higher stand density and lower species richness than the high sites. Trees with dbh  10 cm in low sites were small and stand basal area (SBA) was about the same in low (69.6 m ha) and high (64.3 m ha) sites. The low areas were dominated by Pterocarpus officinalis (38% of stems with dbh  10 cm and 36% of SBA) and Malouetia tamaquarina (26 and 15%). Diospyros guianensis (13.4% of stems with dbh  10 cm and 6.1% of SBA), a Caraipa sp. (14.0 and 7.9%), Lecythis corrugata (6.6 and 3.5%) and emergent Caryocar microcarpum (0.9 and 13.9%) were abundant in high sites. Nodulated legume trees, P. officinalis, Hydrochorea corymbosa and Inga disticha, comprised 44% of stems in the low sites. The abundant nodulation suggests that symbiotic dinitrogen fixation may be an adaptation to N-depleted waterlogged soils. Other adaptive responses were litter accumulation between the buttresses of P. officinalis, which formed hummocks above surface water, and clonal growth habit of M. tamaquarina, which resulted in formation of monospecific groves in low sites. 
23362430|Pot experiments are frequently used to examine plant, soil, and microbial interactions that cannot be studied in situ. Although impacts of the pot environment on seedling growth have long been recognized, they are rarely addressed directly in current ecological studies. Here we examine how commonly used soil conditioners, often necessary to maintain adequate drainage in pots, can influence nutrient availability and seedling growth. Balsawood (Ochroma pyramidalis) seedlings were grown in central Panama in soil combined in a 50:50 mix with one of the following soil conditioners: marine sand, pure sand, perlite, vermiculite, or rice husks. Soil nutrient availability, foliar N and P, and seedling growth were compared after 1 month. Rice husks dramatically reduced soil nitrate, seedling growth, and foliar N. Other conditioners had smaller effects on growth, although vermiculite may be a significant source of base cations in infertile soils. Marine sand had a strong neutralizing effect on acidic soil due to the presence of calcareous shell fragments. Effects of soil conditioners need to be added to other known artifacts of the pot environment influencing nutrient availability, including alterations to N mineralization rates relative to bulk soil, and pot-size effects on N:P availability. These artifacts can strongly influence plant performance and therefore the interpretation of ecological studies.
20146450|The natural establishment of shade-tolerant forest species such as beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) occurs in naturally regenerated Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) woodlands that develop on former pastures and cultivated lands. To examine possible effects of underground competition in beech establishment, we studied the root biomass and the rooting profile of 53 mixed Scots pine-natural beech woodlands in French mid-elevation volcanic areas. Stands were arranged along a maturation gradient. Roots were sampled using the root-auger technique (0 to 75 cm depth every 15 cm). In addition, 23 young beeches were uprooted to study the entire root system. Total beech fine-root biomass was closely correlated with most beech aerial characteristics, (e.g., height, diameter and girth), and correlated moderately with tree age. However, it correlated poorly with basic competition indices such as stand density and basal area. Conversely, competition indices including vertical dimensions of competing trees were correlated with the underground biomass, probably as a result of redundancy with beech height. The rooting profile (fine roots, &lt 5 mm) of beech and pine were quite similar, and did not change significantly along the stand maturation gradient. Beech has a heart-shaped root system while pine is more plate-like and dimorphic. Beech fine-root biomass progressively surpassed pine biomass throughout the soil layers, thus confirming that it is dynamic and competitive in mature mixed stands. The coexistence of the root systems of beech and pine in the same soil layers presumably results in strong underground competition.
20050863|Beech forests occur widely in the mountains on the main island of Japan. Wind storm is the major regime that causes canopy disturbances in these forests. Fagus crenata Blume is a dominant, and Acer mono Maxim., also a canopy species, co-occurs in these forests. It has been suggested that A. mono is less shade-tolerant than F. crenata. Using dendrochronological data, this study describes suppression and release histories during canopy recruitment for these two species in two old-growth beech forests (at Takahara and Kaname) and provides support for the shade tolerance suggestion given above. In addition, disturbance histories over the past 130 or 160 yr in the two forests have been reconstructed. At Takahara, the forest experienced more frequent wind storms, was about 10-15 m shorter and less dense than that at Kaname. Kaname is in a heavy snow region. On average, F. crenata experienced 1.4 and 2.5 definable episodes of suppression during canopy recruitment at Takahara and Kaname, respectively. At Kaname, the average length of total suppression was 66 yr, and 34 yr at Takahara. On average, at final release, the beech trees had a diameter of 25 cm and an age of about 125 yr old, which were twice as large and twice as old as those at Takahara. In contrast, at the two sites, A. mono experienced similar average numbers of episodes (1.6 episodes at Takahara and 1.8 episodes at Kaname) and similar average length of total suppression (37 yr at Takahara and 30 yr at Kaname) during canopy recruitment. At both sites, at final release, the maple had an average diameter of about 18 cm and an average age of some 70 yr. Our results have revealed that F. crenata is able to be tolerant of a longer shade suppression than A. mono. At Kaname, the canopy disturbances deduced from tree-ring data were more intense or frequent than those at Takahara, This contrasted with occurrences of wind storms at the two sites.
40212970|In tropical lowland rain forest, we find that species with the leaves tightly folded or rolled until they reach at least 50% of final length occur in 10 of the 15 monocot families with > 100 species, and in 12 of the 24 monocot families with <100 species, but in only seven of the 212 dicot families (eudicots and magnoliids). Earlier researchers have described how examples of tightly folded and rolled leaves develop, but most have not considered the potentially adaptive value of this pattern of growth. We hypothesize that it is a protection against herbivorous invertebrates. For tropical and temperate dicots, the young leaves have been found to suffer much smaller losses to herbivores while folded and rolled than after they are unfolded or unrolled. Being folded or rolled until a late stage involves an 'opportunity cost' in the loss of photosynthesis. Among dicots, defences involving such a cost (notably late development of photosynthetic systems in pendent soft young leaves) are typical of shade-tolerant species, which have longer-lived leaves than light-demanders. In contrast, among monocots late folding and rolling are found in both shade-tolerators and light-demanders. We hypothesize that late folding and rolling bring a net advantage to monocots in general, whether shadetolerant or light-demanding, despite the opportunity cost, because they mostly have fewer leaves per plant of a given size, and therefore an individual leaf is relatively more valuable to the plant. As a coda, we suggest that the 'sleep movements' of some tropical plants, and the circinate vernation of ferns and some cycads, provide protection against invertebrate herbivores through the apposition of two or more layers of leaf.
41508696|Since mycorrhizal symbionts are dependent on host carbon availability, shading and grazing of the host plant often decrease mycorrhizal colonization in host roots. We conducted field experiments on an intensively mycorrhizal host, Autumn gentian, Gentianella amarella to investigate the effects of neighbor removal and simulated grazing on host growth and reproduction as well as mycorrhizal colonization. In the neighbor removal experiment, we manually removed the above-ground parts of companion plants of gentians. Reduced competition tended to improve the performance of both the host and the symbionts. Total fungal as well as arbuscular, hyphal, and coiled hyphal colonizations were higher in gentians with neighbors removed. Simulated grazing (clipping off 50% of shoot height) reduced host shoot and seed biomass, whereas the responses of the root symbionts were most often positive or neutral. In the first experiment (with late-flowering plants), clipping increased arbuscular, hyphal, and total colonizations but decreased dark septate endophyte colonization. In the second experiment (with both early-and late-flowering plants), clipping did not affect total mycorrhizal colonization. Higher arbuscular, hyphal, and total colonizations were found in late-flowering gentians compared to early-flowering ones. Earlyflowering plants, on the other hand, tolerated simulated grazing better compared to late-flowering plants, which may indicate a higher cost of the symbionts for the late-flowering plants. Above-ground herbivory tends to increase carbon limitation, and under these conditions, regrowing shoots and the fungal symbionts may appear as alternative, competing sinks for the host's limited carbon reserves.
20051069|The term edge effect can be used to encompass a wide range of both biotic and abiotic trends associated with boundaries between adjacent habitat types, whether these be natural or anthropogenic. Edge effects have been shown to represent significant forces affecting both faunal and floral assemblages in fragmented ecosystems. Specific studies of faunal assemblages associated with habitat edges have revealed trends at all levels of biological organisation from individuals to communities. Studies of edge effects on invertebrates in tropical forests have been relatively scarce. In this paper we review the nature and organisation of edge effects, focusing upon the processes which may lead to detrimental consequences for both forest canopy invertebrates and the forests themselves. We present as a case study data illustrating the very large amount of variance (over 50%) in community structure that is predicted simply by abiotic (microclimatic) variables in both a tropical and a temperate forest edge. We summarise major features of edge effects amongst forest invertebrates, stress the inter-relatedness of edge and canopy biology, and present an agenda for study of the canopy as an edge.
20050917|Vegetation data of the Rift Valley have been revisited using fuzzy set theory to give quantitative measures of the links between species and vegetation states. Vegetation is considered as a global indicator of both land use and natural conditions. Human activities in the area have influenced the physiognomy of vegetation so much that an apparently uniform state has developed over most of the Rift Valley floor. Fuzzy set theory has made it possible to interpret the pattern of variation in vegetation on the basis of some reference states corresponding to protected and cultivated sites. The concept of stratocoena is applied to analyse the anthropogenic influences on the tree-shrub and herb layers in order to investigate how they respond to human interference individually.
20050738|This study used germination methods to examine the density, species composition and functional composition of propagule banks in a series of riverine wetland aquatic habitats subject to varying degrees of hydrological and management-related disturbance. Under permanent inundation (the conditions prevailing at most sites during the growing season) propagule germination and species richness was low, with floodplain perennials and helophytes particularly affected. Densities of floodplain annuals were largely maintained through continued germination of a few flooding tolerant species. On damp mud (conditions associated with hydrological instability) total seedling number and species richness increased significantly, but species richness of germinating hydrophytes declined. Mean seedling density at 0-0.1 m depth was 15450  4400
41686747|Amur honeysuckle (Lonicera maackii) is an exotic invasive shrub that is rapidly expanding into forests of eastern North America. This species forms a dense forest understory, alters tree regeneration, negatively affects herb-layer biodiversity, and alters ecosystem function. In a second-growth forest in central Kentucky, we examined the timing and production of leaf litter and compared litter chemistry, decay rates, and microbial community colonization of Amur honeysuckle to that of two native trees, white ash (Fraxinus americana) and hickory (Carya spp.). The distribution of Amur honeysuckle was clumped, allowing us to compare differences in decomposition under and away from Amur honeysuckle shrubs. Amur honeysuckle leaf litter had significantly higher nitrogen, lower C:N, and lower lignin than the other species, and decomposition rates were greater than 5 x faster. Despite the much higher rate of Amur honeysuckle decomposition compared with the native species (p < 0.0001), decomposition of all species was significantly slower (p = 0.0489) in sites located under Amur honeysuckle shrubs. Nitrogen concentration increased through time in decomposing Amur honeysuckle litter; however, total mass of N rapidly declined. We found the initial microbial community on leaf litter of Amur honeysuckle was distinct from two native species and although all microbial communities changed through time, the microbial community of Amur honeysuckle remained distinct from native communities. In summary, a distinct microbial community that may originate on Amur honeysuckle leaves prior to senescence could explain the rapid decay rates.
20051084|Mini UV lamps were installed over antarctic plants at Lonie Island, Antarctic peninsula, and shoot length measurements of Deschampsia antarctica were performed during the austral summer January-February 1999. We studied the response of the antarctic hairgrass, Deschampsia antarctica to enhanced UV-B. In a climate room experiment we exposed tillers of Deschampsia antarctica, collected at Lonie Island, Antarctic peninsula, to ambient and enhanced levels of UV-B radiation. In this climate room experiment with 0, 2.5 and 5 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math> treatments we observed that length growth of shoots at 2.5 and 5 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math> was markedly reduced compared to 0 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math>. In addition, there was an increased number of shoots and increased leaf thickness with enhanced UV-B. The Relative Growth Rate (RGR) was not affected by UV-B, possibly because reduced shoot length growth by enhanced UV-B was compensated by increased tillering. Light response curves of net leaf photosynthesis of plants exposed to 5 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math> did not differ from those exposed to 0 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math>. The content of UV-B absorbing compounds of plants exposed to increasing UV-B did not significantly change. Mini UV-B lamp systems were installed in the field, to expose the terrestrial antarctic vegetation at Lonie Island to enhanced solar UV-B. In that study, the increment of shoot length of tagged plants of Deschampsia antarctica during the January-February 1999 at Lonie Island, was recorded and compared to shoot length growth under controlled conditions. The consequences of enhanced UV-B radiation as a result of ozone depletion for the terrestrial antarctic ecosystems are discussed.
20146768|This study examined whether topography-induced gradients in water potential and leaf litter depth contribute to species coexistence in tropical forests through species-specific effects on seedling emergence and mortality. Seedling emergence and mortality were followed for a period of 12 months in 36 (1  2 m) plots on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panam. Plots with and without litter were distributed on slope and plateau sites in three catchments. In the absence of manipulations, the lower litter depth on slopes resulted in approximately four times as many emergent seedlings than on plateau sites. However, litter depth had little effect on seedling community composition. By the end of the first dry-season, post-emergence, there were no significant differences in surviving seedling numbers between any treatments. There were differences in the emergent seedling community between slope and plateau sites within the same catchment as well as differences in composition between catchments, suggesting that both niche partitioning and dispersal limitation might play a role in structuring seedling community composition. During the wet-season seedling mortality was highest on slope sites although this pattern was reversed during the dry-season. In both seasons mortality was higher for small-seeded species. These results demonstrate that gradients in water potential related to topography impact on patterns of seedling emergence and mortality although processes in the first year after emergence may be insufficient to explain observed habitat preferences of adult plants.
20050542|Altitudinal zonation of evergreen, deciduous and coniferous forests on Mt. Emei (3099 m asl, 2934.5 N, 10321.5 E), Sichuan, China was studied to understand the transition of vegetation zonation from tropical to temperate mountains in humid Asia. On the basis of quantitative data on floristic composition and community structure sampled at ten plots selected in different altitudes on the eastern slope of the mountain, forest zonation and the inter-relationships among different life-forms of trees in each zonal forest community were studied quantitatively. Three forest zones were identified physiognomically along the altitudinal gradient, viz. (i) the evergreen broad-leaved forest zone (660-1500 m asl), (ii) the mixed forest zone (1500-2500 m asl), and (iii) the coniferous forest zone (2500-3099 m asl). Great compositional changes were observed along elevation, and the zonal forest communities were characterized by their dominants and floristic composition. Maximum tree height decreased from 33 m at lower middle altitude (965 m asl) to 13 m near the summit (2945 m asl). There was no apparent deciduous forest zone along the altitudinal gradient, but true mixed forests of three life-forms (evergreen, deciduous, and coniferous) were formed around 2000-2500 m asl. Patches of deciduous forest were found in a lower part of the mixed forest zone, particularly on scree slopes, between 1450 m and 1900 m asl. These patches were dominated by the Tertiary relic deciduous trees, such as Davidia involucrata, Tetracentron sinense, and Cercidiphyllum japonicum var. sinense. High species diversity in the mixed forest zone resulted from the overlapping of different life-forms at middle altitudes, which is partly due to wider variety of temperature-altitude correlations. A comparison of the altitudinal zonation with the other east Asian mountain vegetation clarified that Mt. Emei is located exactly at the ecotone between tropical and temperate zonation types in eastern Asia.
20050951|The tree community of both canopy gaps and mature forest was surveyed in a 5 ha plot of cloud forest in the Ibitipoca Range, south-eastern Brazil, aiming at: (a) comparing the tree community structure of canopy gaps with that of three strata of the mature forest, and (b) relating the tree community structure of canopy gaps with environmental and biotic variables. All saplings of canopy trees with 1-5 m of height established in 31 canopy gaps found within the plot were identified and measured. Mature forest trees with dbh 3 cm were sampled in four 40  40 quadrats laid on the four soil sites recognised in the local soil catena. All surveyed trees were identified, measured and distributed into three forest strata: understorey (&lt5 m of height), sub-canopy (5.1-15 m) and canopy (15.1-30 m). The following variables were obtained for each gap: mode of formation, age, soil site, slope grade, size, canopy openness and abundance of bamboos and lianas. A detrended correspondence analysis indicated that the tree community structure of gaps in all soil sites was more similar to that of the mature forest understorey, suggesting that the bank of immatures plays an important role in rebuilding the forest canopy and that gap phases may be important for understorey shade-tolerant species. There was evidence of gap-dependence for establishment for only one canopy tree species. Both canonical correspondence analysis and correlation analysis demonstrated for a number of tree species that the distribution of their saplings in canopy gaps was significantly correlated with two variables: soil site and canopy openness. The future forest structure at each gap is probably highly influenced by both the present structure of the adjacent mature forest and the gap creation event.
20146760|In this paper, we compare the relationship between scale and period in ecological pattern analysis and wavelet analysis. We also adapt a commonly used wavelet, the Morlet, to ecological pattern analysis. Using Monte Carlo assessments, we apply methods of statistical significance test to wavelet analysis for pattern analysis. In order to understand the inherent strength and weakness of the Morlet and the Mexican Hat wavelets, we also investigate and compare the properties of two frequently used wavelets by testing with field data and four artificial transects of different typical patterns which is often encountered in ecological research. It is shown that the Mexican Hat provides better detection and localization of patch and gap events over the Morlet, whereas the Morlet offers improved detection and localization of scale over the Mexican Hat. There is always a trade-off between the detection and localization of scale versus patch and gap events. Therefore, the best composite analysis is the combination of their advantages. The properties of wavelet in dealing with ecological data may be affected by characteristics intrinsic to wavelet itself. The peaks of different scales in isograms of wavelet power spectrum from the Mexican Hat may overlap with each other. Alternatively, these peaks of different scales in isograms of wavelet power spectrum may combine with each other unless the size of the analyzed scales is significantly different. These overlapping or combining lead to combining of peaks for different scales, or the masking of trough between peaks of different scales in the scalogram. Ecologists should combine all the information in scalogram and isograms of wavelet coefficient and wavelet power spectrum from different wavelets, which can provide us a broader view and precise pattern information.
41508669|We investigated the fire resistance conferred by bark of seven common tree species in north Australian tropical savannas. We estimated bark thermal conductance and examined the relative importance of bark thickness, density and moisture content for protecting the cambium from lethal fire temperatures. Eucalypt and non-eucalypt species were contrasted, including the fire-sensitive conifer Callitris intratropica. Cambial temperature responses to bark surface heating were measured using a modified wick-fire technique, which simulated a heat pulse comparable to surface fires of moderate intensity. Bark thickness was a better predictor of resistance to cambial injury from fires than either bark moisture or density, accounting for 68% of the deviance in maximum temperature of the cambium. The duration of heating required to kill the cambium of a tree ( c ) was directly proportional to bark thickness squared. Although species did not differ significantly in their bark thermal conductance (k), the thinner barked eucalypts nevertheless achieved similar or only slightly lower levels of fire resistance than much thicker barked non-eucalypts. Bark thickness alone cannot account for the latter and we suggest that lower bark moisture content among the eucalypts also contributes to their apparent fire resistance. Unique eucalypt meristem anatomy and epicormic structures, combined with their bark traits, probably facilitate resprouting after fire and ensure the dominance of eucalypts in fire-prone savannas. This study emphasises the need to take into account both the thermal properties of bark and the mechanism of bud protection in characterising the resprouting ability of savanna trees.
20146435|Light intensity and root colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are considered important factors affecting the performance of rain forest plants, yet few studies have examined how these two factors interact. Whether AM colonization promoted growth or caused shifts in biomass allocation in seedlings of four species of Australian rain forest tree (Flindersia brayleana, Acmena resa, Cryptocarya mackinnoniana and Cryptocarya angulata), grown in a glasshouse under light conditions that mimicked the shaded understory (3% PAR) and small light gaps (10% PAR), was examined. Seedlings were grown in sterilized field soil and either inoculated with AM fungi or provided sterile inoculum. Four major findings emerged. First, in all species, seedlings grown in small gap light intensities were larger than seedlings grown in understory light intensities. Second, when seedling biomass was included as a covariate, variation in light intensity was associated with significant shifts in biomass allocation. In all species, leaf area ratio was lower at 10% PAR than at 3% PAR, while root-to-shoot ratio showed the opposite pattern in one of the four species (C. mackinonniana). Third, although percentage root length colonized by AM fungi was greater at 10% PAR than 3% PAR in all species, this difference could be accounted for by variation in seedling size in all species except C. angulata. Fourth, growth and biomass allocation responses to AM colonization varied with light intensity and plant species. AM colonization promoted growth in both light regimes only in F. brayleana, while it had no effect on growth in C. mackinnoniana and C. angulata in either light regime and promoted growth only under high light in A. resa. AM colonization had no effect on leaf area ratio or root-to-shoot ratio in any of the species, and significantly altered specific root length in only one of the four species (C. mackinnoniana). These findings suggest that rain forest seedlings are highly variable in their growth responses to AM colonization and that some of this variability is related to the light intensity of the environment. Given that seedlings may spend many years in the shaded understory, these differences among species could have important effects on long-term seedling performance and seedling community dynamics.
20050967|Two methods were employed to find spatial regularity in a complicated mountain landscape of Beijing, China on the basis of functional and structural affinities. The first approach applied Affinity Analysis based on species composition to landscape. The mosaic diversity of the landscape was 3.5298&gt3, which means the study landscape is complex and controlled by multiple environmental gradients. These landscape types were divided into 3 parts according to the mean affinity values of 0.2143 and 0.7857 (0.5  1 SD). Modal sites are the central types of the landscape, which include a zonal broad-leaved forest of the region and a conifer plantation replacing the former. Outliers are found in the highest altitude and the lowest, both have few species in common with the above two modal types. The remaining landscape types are intermediate sites, which are transitional between modals and outliers, broadly distributed throughout mountain environments. Neighbor types have more species in common than those more widely separated, which probably distributed adjacently in space or in similar quality habitat. The other method employed is the new TWINSPAN analysis by substituting spatial neighboring data of landscape types for species composition data. It clearly divided the landscape types into three groups, i.e., subalpine, middle and low mountain groups, which were correlated with altitude, as well as influenced by human disturbance. The new TWINSPAN classification method is more reliable in finding spatial gradient of patchy landscapes than affinity analysis; however, affinity analysis is useful in finding species diversity pattern and the importance of landscape types in a region. Integrating advantages of the two methods could supply complete and reliable information on how landscape types are distributed in space, which environmental gradient dominates the spatial distribution of the landscape types, as well as where important and unusual types are located.
20146924|Optimality theory for plant defense against herbivores predicts an evolutionary tradeoff between the abilities to compete and defend. We tested this hypothesis by studying the effects of genetic variation in competitiveness on defense expression. Two closely related and differentially competitive congeners were compared for levels of resistance, tolerance, and secondary metabolite production. In a growth room experiment, plants of Arabis drummondii and A. holboellii were grown in the presence and absence of the common bunch grass Boutelloua gracilis, the specialist herbivore Plutella xylostella, and generalist herbivore Trichoplusia ni. Tolerance to competition, measured as growth next to the grass relative to controls in the absence of grass, was greatest for A. drummondii, the species that occurred in communities with higher densities of inter-specific neighbors. Measures of defense (resistance to herbivores, tolerance to damage, and concentrations of glucosinolates) varied inconsistently between the Arabis, species, depending on type of herbivore, competition level, and type of defense. The better competitor A. drummondii was more resistant to specialist herbivores, as in the field, and exhibited greater herbivore- and competition-induced changes in glucosinolate profiles. Further, when plants of A. drummondii were fed upon in competitive environments, the induced glucosinolate response was reduced while tolerance levels increased in an apparent switching of induced strategies. We suggest that competitiveness and defense responses are sometimes positively correlated because some defensive traits also function as competitive traits. A competitive function for defenses may also explain why defenses were affected by competition. Alternatively, since the induced response did not increase estimates of total glucosinolate content significantly, minimal defense costs might also allow the simultaneous evolution of competitiveness and defense. Finally, when faced with both herbivory and competition, some competitive species, such as A. drummondii, may switch to growth-based rather than toxin-based strategies as recent theoretical models predict.
40305618|Natural disturbances such as fires, windstorms, floods, and herbivory often act on plant communities, affecting their structure and the abundance and composition of their species. Most research has focused on the effects of single disturbances on plant communities whereas the synergistic effects of several disturbances have received less attention. In this study, we evaluated how timing and severity of tree mortality modified plant use by introduced deer and early post-mortality successional trajectories in northern Patagonian conifer forests. We sampled understory composition and deer use in Austrocedrus chilensis (ciprs de la cordillera) forest stands undergoing varying timing and severity of forest mortality as reconstructed using dendroecological techniques. In addition, we evaluated the effect of fallen logs on plant composition and deer use of plants by monitoring areas of massive dieback where fallen logs had been removed for fire hazard reduction, and nearby control areas not subjected to such removal. Stepwise regression analyses showed that history and severity of tree mortality strongly influence plant composition and deer use of plants. For deer use (with pellet counts and browsing index as response variables), results showed a positive relationship with degree of stand mortality and a negative relationship with cover of fallen logs. Similarly, cover of unpalatable shrub species was explained by canopy mortality history, whereas cover of palatable shrub species was positively associated with severity of canopy mortality. In areas where fallen logs had been removed, pellet counts were six times higher than those in control areas. Though total shrub species cover was similar between log removal and control areas, proportion of unpalatable shrubs increased in areas where fallen logs had been removed. In conclusion, deer use of plants was strongly limited by tall fallen logs, allowing palatable species to establish and grow. Fallen log removal accelerated deer entrance and changed understory composition toward more browse-resistant and unpalatable species. These results underscore the importance of considering the dynamics (timing, severity, and extent) of fallen woody debris influencing understory herbivory and post-disturbance succession. In addition, experimental results underpin the importance of maintaining snags and large woody debris in disturbed landscapes where salvage logging is a routine procedure.
20051292|The importance of seedling establishment to the position of alpine-treeline is recognized, yet little is known about factors affecting the survival of seedlings of treeline conifers during their initial years of growth and establishment. This establishment period may have the greatest mortality of all life stages until death of mature trees by disease of fire. Spatial and temporal patterns in the distribution and survival of seedlings of Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa were evaluated over four years in an alpine-treeline ecotone of the Snowy Range, Wyoming, USA. Seedlings and saplings of both species occurred most frequently near islands of adult trees. For P. englemannii, this appeared partly due to decreased survivorship of young seedlings (&lt 5 cm height) with greater distance away from tree islands. Survival of emergents of P. engelmannii was 28% greater on the north compared to south sides of tree islands, 48% lower on south-facing slopes compared to other aspects, and 70% greater with overhead cover such as tree branches. Survival of emergents was greater in microsites with grass cover (90% survival) compared to without ground cover (44% survival), but lowest in microsites surrounded, but not covered, by grass (19%). From 1994-1999, natural seedling emergence and survival was highest in 1995 (80% survival of 221 P. engelmannii, and 100% of seven A. lasiocarpa, in a sample area of 432 m), when the smallest mean difference in daily maximum and minimum temperatures occurred, and lowest in 1994 (30% of seven P. engelmannii), when above-average temperatures were accompanied by low rainfall and clear skies. The growth seasons of 1994 and 1995 had among the lowest and highest precipitation of the previous 30-year period, respectively. In an artificial seeding experiment, less than 20% of seedlings of both species survived their first complete year of growth. In the autumn of the second year, almost 25% additional mortality was observed in the remaining experimental seedlings when they were exposed to clear, cold skies without the normal protection of snowcover. Both spatial and temporal patterns of seedling survival suggest that exposure to high sunlight may exacerbate low-temperature and water stress in young conifer seedlings, inhibiting their establishment in this alpine treeline.
20146888|In order to evaluate host plant performance relative to different soil arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) communities, Andropogon gerardii seedlings were grown with nine different AMF communities. The communities consisted of 0, 10, or 20 spores of Glomus etunicatum and 0, 10, or 20 spores of Glomus intraradices in all possible combinations. Spores were produced by fungal cultures originating on A. gerardii in a serpentine plant community; seeds of A. gerardii were collected at the same site. The experiment was performed in the greenhouse using a mixture of sterilized serpentine soil and sand to which naturally occurring non-mycorrhizal microbes were added. There was no difference in root AMF colonization rates between single species communities of either G. etunicatum or G. intraradices, but G. intraradices enhanced plant growth and G. etunicatum did not. However, plants grew larger with some combinations of G. intraradices plus G. etunicatum than with the same quantity of G. intraradices alone. These results suggest the potential for niche complementarity in the mycorrhizal fungi. That G. etunicatum only increased plant growth in the presence of G. intraradices could be illustrative of why AMF that appear to be parasitic or benign when examined in isolation are maintained within multi-species mycorrhizal communities in nature.
20051169|A complex database on the lichens of Italy was used to combine ecological indicator values assigned to each species (pH, eutrophication, light and aridity), in such a way as to simulate 'virtual habitats' from a beech forest of northern Italy. For each habitat, a list of species was obtained ('virtual relev'). A matrix of real and virtual relevs was submitted to classification and ordination, obtaining six main community-types, all of which include both real and virtual relevs. Two ordinations of species were carried out, one on the matrix of real relevs, the other on that of virtual relevs: their comparison shows that the consistency and the resolving power of the indicator values was high, but it also permits to detect and correct some errors. The results indicate a high predictivity of the indicator values for constructing ecological scenarios.
40305672|To study the impact of disturbance by mowing on clonal variation, we compared the genetic structure of Ranunculus ficaria (Ranunculaceae) in meadows and forests located in southeast Germany. We applied random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis to investigate the clonal and genetic diversity and analysed a total of 117 samples from three study plots in each habitat type. Polymerase chain reaction with six primers resulted in 57 fragments. Clonal diversity differed clearly between the two analysed habitat types and was significantly higher in the study plots from meadows than in those from forests. The mean percentage of distinguishable genotypes (PD) was 0.80 in meadow plots and 0.36 in forest plots, and the detected genets were smaller in meadow plots than in forest plots. Mean genetic diversity measured as percentage of polymorphic bands, Shannon's information index and Nei's gene diversity was also higher in meadows (44.4, 0.22 and 0.14) than in forests (25.1, 0.09 and 0.05). The higher level of clonal diversity in meadow plots is most likely due to the effects of disturbance by mowing, which increases the dispersal of bulbils and promotes the establishment of new plants in meadows compared to forests.
20050486|We examined the effects of water level, surface water chemistry, and climatic parameters on aboveground primary plant production, and the tissue nutrient concentrations in the dominant herb species in a bog, three fens, and two marshes. In the fens, total NPP correlated best with
20050523|Spatial distribution patterns of two emergent tropical rainforest tree species (Dryobalanops aromatica & D. lanceolata) were examined in where they were dominant (17-20% of total basal area of canopy trees) in Sarawak, East Malaysia. Newly established seedlings (&lt 2 years old) were restricted to areas &lt 40 m from mother trees for both species, suggesting a limited seed dispersal. Seedling (&lt 1 cm in dbh) density was highest around conspecific adults ( 30 cm in dbh). Negative spatial patterns were observed between larger juveniles (1-5 cm in dbh) and conspecific adults for both species; the most dense populations of sapling (1-5 cm in dbh) and poles (5-30 cm in dbh) were found at a distance of 15-20 m from the nearest conspecific adult. Seedlings of both species were distributed randomly with respect to light conditions evaluated by a forest floor diffuse site factor and a canopy closure index. Saplings of both species, and poles of D. lanceolata, were distributed under more open conditions than expected from spatially random distributions, and from average light conditions of all species of the same size classes. Possible mechanisms for the observed distribution patterns and intermediate canopy dominance of Dryobalanops were discussed from the viewpoints of gap-dynamics and distance-dependent mortality.
20051220|The population dynamics of two polycarpic perennials, Agrimonia eupatoria and Geum rivale, characteristic of semi-natural grasslands in Scandinavia, were examined in south-eastern Sweden. The perennial forbs were studied for several years in two populations each, located in habitats characteristic for the species in the study area. Demographic transition probabilities varied significantly between populations and among years for the species. Transition matrix modelling yielded -values (population growth rates) that ranged from 0.89 to 1.14 for A. eupatoria and from 0.94 to 1.04 for G. rivale. The elasticity analysis showed that statis in the adult stage classes contributed most to . The life-table response experiment analysis produced similar results as the elasticity analysis, where stasis together with progression in the adult stage classes made a large contribution to the observed spatial variation in . Simulations of expected time to extinction were in the order of centuries for the study populations. Seedling recruitment was enhanced by seed addition and small scale disturbance in populations. For the intermediately abundant and more patchily distributed A. eupatoria, a regional survey of local populations was conducted in the study area which revealed that most populations were relatively small (&lt 100 individuals) and restricted to grassland fragments in road verges. Furthermore, an attempt was made to estimate fruit dispersal from local populations.
20146416|This paper is an attempt, using statistical modelling techniques, to understand the patterns of vascular plant species richness in mountain pastures ensuing from agriculture abandonment. Species richness was measured in 10  10 m plots and the explanatory factors used in the models were physical variables calculated from a digital terrain model (DTM) and vegetation, lithology, and administrative regions maps all constructed in a 100 m-resolution GIS environment. Poisson regressions, a particular type of GLM (generalized linear models), were used to construct the models using a forward stepwise procedure. The resulting model included three topo-ecological variables derived from the DTM (mean annual rainfall, specific catchment area and distance from the nearest watercourse) and accounted for 70% of the total variability. Maximum species richness occurred at intermediate rainfall levels, at topographic positions with relatively little drainage or in areas distant from water-courses. The model is discussed in the context of current theories on species richness.
20050585|On the forest floor of deciduous woodlands, relative light intensity gradually declines during the early growing season. The woodland understorey pseudo-annual Circaea lutetiana L. completes its life-cycle at the end of summer. These pseudo-annuals are clonal plants which survive the winter only as seeds and as hibernacles produced by the rhizome apices. In this paper, we asked several questions related to the life-history of C. lutetiana. It was found that shoot formation in early spring did not exhaust the old hibernacle. A trade-off between rhizome + hibernacle number and weight might be expected when plants grow under resource limitation. It was hypothesised that both number and weight of rhizomes and hibernacles will be affected by light availability. Since the effect of resource supply on the size number trade-off will depend on the developmental pattern of the rhizome system, rhizome development was studied as well. Soon after the shoots emerged, 1st order rhizomes were formed in May on the nodes of the old hibernacle. First-order rhizomes branched in June and 2nd order rhizomes (side-branches) were continuously produced throughout the growing season. The phenology and developmental rate of plants growing in different light treatments were plastic. On average 30% of rhizome biomass was formed during the vegetative phase, and rhizome and fruit production were only partly separated in time. The ratio of total rhizome biomass to total fruit biomass was not affected by light. Also flower bud removal did not lead to an increase in rhizome production, which suggests that division of biomass to both reproductive modes is rather rigid. The number of 1st order rhizomes was not affected by the light treatments. Under light limitation, both rhizome number and weight of single rhizomes were reduced. In contrast, fruit number, but not weight of single fruits, was limited.
20050502|Cistus clusii is an early successional shrub, the most drought-resistant species of Cistus which colonies perturbed areas in the southern Iberian Peninsula and regenerates entirely from seeds after a fire. Some of the factors controlling germination and seedling establishment were examined in a field experiment in which we tested the effect of soil disturbance, fire, and litter accumulation on seedling emergence. In a first experiment, soil disturbance and fire were applied to plots in the field with a factorial design in April 1992. In a second experiment, we measured the effect of adding C. clusii litter. The number of seedlings, annual plants and grasses, and the coverage of mosses were recorded in 1993 and 1994. Soil disturbance increased the number of C. clusii seedlings almost seven-fold but did not change the number of grasses, annual plants nor moss cover. Fire significantly increased the number of C. clusii seedlings only in combination with soil disturbance, and it did not affect the presence of annuals, grasses nor moss cover. Litter increased the number of C. clusii seedlings in the following two years. Overall, soil disturbance as a single factor had the most significant effect on seedling emergence, though plots disturbed and treated with fire had the highest number of seedlings, implying that germination of C. clusii seeds was enhanced by processes that alter the hard seed coat and break the physical dormancy imposed by the testa. In addition, recruitment of C. clusii was dependent on rainfall, as drought significantly reduced the number of seedlings appearing in winter.
40305766|Seed development, dormancy and germination of the American invasive tree species, Prunus serotina, are described for plants growing in a large forest in Belgium. Seeds of P. serotina were collected following anthesis in the first week of July and thereafter at fortnightly intervals. Seed dormancy, temperature requirements for germination and the soil seed bank were investigated. At maturation (about 105 days after anthesis), seed moisture content had decreased to around 13.7%, and 44% of the seeds had attained the capacity to germinate. Mature seeds of P. serotina exhibited physiological dormancy, germinating only after a long cold, moist stratification period. Highest germination percentage occurred in seeds treated with gibberellic acid (GA), at 10C. We found no evidence that P. serotina forms a persistent seed bank but noticed a persistent seedling bank in the field.
40305462|Areas of 2,800-3,000 m a.s.l. represent the alpine-nival ecotone in the Alps. This transition zone connecting the closed swards of the alpine belt and the scattered vegetation of the nival belt may show particularly strong climate warming driven fluctuations in plant species richness compared to the nival belt. To test this hypothesis, 12 summits within this range were investigated in the canton of Grisons, Switzerland in 2004. Complete lists of vascular plant species consisting of 5-70 species were collected on each summit and the elevation of the uppermost occurrence of each species was recorded. These data were compared to historical records over 120 years in age. Within this time, vascular plant species richness increased by 11% per decade on summits in the alpine-nival ecotone. Despite this considerable change, a comparison with nival summits did not support the hypothesis that species richness increase at the alpine-nival ecotone is higher than in the nival belt. A general trend of upward migration in the range of several metres per decade could be observed. Anemochorous species were more often found to be migrating than zoochorous or autochorous species and migration was higher on calcareous than on siliceous bedrock. A comparison between the summits with the adjacent slopes in our study revealed that changes in species number could be used as an indicator for climate-induced changesif at allonly for the narrow summit areas.
41429061|We studied the species richness of herbaceous terrestrial plant species along an elevational gradient at 2502425 m a.s.l. in evergreen tropical forest in Central Sulawesi, Indonesia. We recorded 302 species belonging to 51 families. Ferns and lycophytes contributed 62% of the species, followed by monocots with 24% and dicots with 14%. Overall herb species richness did not show any particular relation with elevation, while the richness of ferns increased significantly with elevation, monocots did not show a pattern, and dicots showed a hump-shaped pattern with maximum richness at 1800 m. These patterns in turn were only partly reflected in the patterns of the individual plant families making up each group. The independence of different taxa was also reflected in their relationships to environmental factors (temperature, precipitation, and area): although, each single family was related to one or several factors, at the group level and at the overall level these trends were lost. These results show that interpreting diversity at higher taxonomic level may overlook important information at the family level and raises the biologically intriguing question whether overall patterns of diversity result from a random accumulation of group-specific patterns or if there is some interaction between groups (e.g., via competition and niche-pre-emption).
20146418|The abundance and variety of seedlings in Baltic coastal grasslands was studied in cattle grazed and ungrazed areas in seashore and delta on the western coast of Finland. The vegetation, seed bank and environmental conditions of the same sites were also studied. Altogether 4609 seedlings were observed in 79 field plots (20 cm  20 cm) making an average of 1458.54 seedlings/m. The majority of the seedlings were dicots (67.5%) and perennials (96.8%). Altogether 44 species and an average of 4.14 species per plot were identified as seedlings. The most abundant taxon, Carex formed 23.2% of all the seedlings observed in the field. In the delta the seedling density was two times that found at the seashore. Also, the numbers of species of seedlings per plot were significantly higher in the delta than in the seashore, but in total, more species germinated from the seashore than from the delta even though the number of plots was higher in the delta (n = 51) than in the seashore (n = 28). The numbers of species and seedlings per plot were smaller in grazed sites than in ungrazed ones similar to the pattern earlier reported concerning the mature vegetation and seed bank. The mean numbers of seedlings were the highest at lower geolittoral plots (about 20 cm elevation), where the seed bank was also densest. About 60.0% of the mature species in the plots were also detected as seedlings and 91.4% of the seedling species were found in the mature vegetation of the plots. The number of seedlings was positively correlated with the cover of mature vegetation giving support to the nurse effect theory. Seedling numbers were negatively correlated with the abundance of litter indicating that litter restricts germination because it is a mechanical barrier but also decreases the amount of light. The number of seedlings and species, both in total and per unit area, were greater in the seed bank than in the field seedling population. The seedling population was more similar to the mature vegetation than to the seed bank.
20050558|In continental Europe, the heavy metal hyperaccumulator Thlaspi caerulescens occurs both on heavy-metal polluted soils (subsp. calaminare) and on soils with normal heavy metal content (subsp. caerulescens). In order to assess the extent and partitioning of variation in heavy metal tolerance and foliar mineral composition, twelve families from two populations of each subspecies were grown in pots in four soil treatments differing in heavy metal (Zn, Pb) and macronutrient concentrations. The two subspecies differed systematically in many respects. Subsp. calaminare had a higher survival at high levels of heavy metals and a higher tolerance index in all treatments. It also had three times lower foliar zinc and lead concentrations when grown at moderate levels of heavy metals. This, together with a negative correlation of foliar Pb concentration with growth in subsp. caerulescens, suggests that heavy metal accumulation per se is not a mechanism of tolerance in this species. Variation among families within populations accounted for a larger proportion of total variance in growth and mineral composition than variation between populations. Additionally, within population variation in heavy metal tolerance and accumulation was significantly lower in subsp. calaminare. This suggests that, adding to a background constitutive tolerance at the species level, natural selection has increased heavy metal tolerance in metallicolous populations of Thlaspi caerulescens.
40305547|For effective management of endangered species it is pivotal to understand why a species is endangered and which key life cycle components are involved in its response to environmental changes. Our objective was to investigate the response of rosettes of the redlisted clonal herb Cirsium dissectum to anthropogenic nutrient enrichment, which threatens its populations, and the consequences of these responses for its population dynamics. We constructed matrix population models with demographic data from three populations and four annual transitions and we decomposed the spatiotemporal variation in projected population growth rates into contributions from life cycle components. These patterns were compared with below-ground rosette dynamics in different fields, and with the below-and above-ground rosette dynamics in a garden experiment with nutrient enrichment and competing grasses. The decomposition analysis revealed that increased clonal rosette formation and decreased rosette survival were driving the spatial variation in the population growth rate. Excavating the below-ground rhizome network revealed a higher rosette turn-over in experimentally fertilized garden plots, which not only resulted in increased plot-level extinction, but also in increased spread of the clonal offspring. This supported the observed trend among field populations: rosette formation trades off with rosette survival. Surviving seedlings were only found in areas where the topsoil had been removed. The endangered C. dissectum is vulnerable when its habitat becomes more productive, because this species does not have the necessary capability to build up biomass. Small-scale disturbances such as created by sodcutting or trampling cattle are essential for seedling establishment and necessary to render the explorative strategy of rhizomatous clonal spread successful.
20050891|Following the environmental sieve concept, the setting in which the recruitment of Taxodium distichum occurs in, becomes increasingly restrictive from the seed to seedling stage in an impounded forested wetland. Although a wide elevational band of dispersing seed moves across the boundary of a swamp-field in the water sheet, the zone of germination is relegated to that portion of the forested wetland that draws down during the growing season. Seedling recruitment is further restricted to the uppermost zone of the winter water sheet. These patterns are likely applicable to other species of dominant swamp species, e.g., Cephalanthus occidentalis crossed the boundary of a forested wetland and abandonded field in winter flooding (November-December and November-March, respectively) in Buttonland Swamp. The elevation of the boundary was 101.3 m NGVD. While the seeds of at least 40 swamp species were dispersed across the boundary, few viable seeds were dispersed after the winter season. Kriged maps showed seeds of T. distichum and C. occidentalis dispersed in patches in the water depending on the position of the water sheet. Most species of both water- and gravity-dispersed species had a localized pattern of seed distribution (either spherical or exponential) and this indicated that seeds may not be dispersed for great distances in the swamp. Water-dispersed T. distichum and C. occidentalis had larger dispersal ranges (A = 225 and 195 m, respectively) than Bidens frondosa and B. discoidea (A = 14 and 16 m, respectively). Seed dispersal varied with season depending on the availability of seeds. In Buttonland Swamp, viable seeds typically were dispersed for T. distichum in November-June, and for C. occidentalis in November-July. Low water occurred in August 1993 and high in February 1994 (99.8 and 101.6 m NGVD, respectively). The seed banks along the landscape boundary varied in species composition according to elevation (r = 0.996). While the similarity of species richness between water-dispersed seeds and the seed bank at elevations that flooded (during June 1993 through May 1995) was high (10-17%), it was low between water-dispersed seeds and the seed bank at elevations that did not flood (5%). T. distichum seeds had a short germination window in that seeds germinated within a year following their production in zones that were flooded in the winter followed by drawdown during the next growing season. After 1 year, less than 5% of the T. distichum seeds remained viable on the surface of the soil. Germination of T. distichum was confined to specific elevations (above 99.3 but below 101.6 m NGVD) during this study with 4.1% of the seedlings surviving for more than 2 years at a mean of 101.4 m NGVD. All seedlings below this elevation died. To maximize natural regeneration along the boundaries of swamps in abandoned farm fields targeted for restoration, this study suggests a flood pulse regime consisting of high water in the winter to maximize dispersal of live seeds followed by low water in the summer to facilitate seed germination and seedling recruitment. Hydrologic restoration could assist in the natural recovery of damaged wetlands if a seed source exists nearby.
20146564| The interactions between environmental conditions, particularly precipitation and water table salinity and tree water use were studied at the pinewood of Alberese, a stand of umbrella pine (Pinus pinea L.) trees growing along the Southern coastline of Tuscany and characterised by a sandy soil and a high water table level (ranging between 1 and 2 m depth). Data on sap flow, measured by heat pulse, or compensation technique, were compared between two contrasting sites (referred to as sites A and B), characterised by clear differences in the salinity levels of the water table. Site A, located near the karstic Uccellina hills was characterised by more favourable hydrologic conditions as it was likely receiving lateral rainfall drainage from the hills. Water electrical conductivity (EC) values at the upper surface of the water table of this site were lower than 12 dS/m. By contrast, the more typical site B, located further away from the hills, did not benefit from lateral water movement in the soil and showed values of EC of about 17-20 dS/m, half the value of seawater. This amounted to a difference in soil osmotic potential of about 0.4-0.5 MPa across sites. Despite this difference in salinity, measurements of needle water potential during September 2000 did not differ across sites (average of about -1.5 and -2.4 for pre-dawn and midday water potentials, respectively). In contrast to water potentials, the dynamics of sap flow clearly differed across sites. Larger seasonal reductions in maximum daily sapwood-related sap flux density were recorded at site B both during summer (0.005-0.015 10 m m s) and spring-autumn (0.030-0.045 10 m m s) than at site A (0.010-0.018 and 0.025-0.035 10 m m s, for summer and spring-autumn, respectively). The different behaviour of water potentials and transpiration rates across sites could be explained by higher values of soil-to-leaf hydraulic resistance at site B during the dry season. Rainfall accumulated in the soil during winter formed a top layer of fresh water, which was then used by plants during the following spring/summer. When fresh water supplies were depleted, the pines drew from the underlying salty water with clear seasonal differences between the two sites. 
20146915|Hydrology filters propagule bank expression in herbaceous Carolina bays, but the strength of this filter's effects on community composition at different points along the hydrologic gradient of these southeastern U.S. depressional wetlands is unknown. We used an experimental approach to determine the pattern of vegetation expression from propagule banks of Carolina bays exposed to different hydrologic conditions and gradients. Propagule banks of sediment cores collected from six Carolina bays were placed in bins, each of which was allocated to one of three hydrologic treatments: moist soil (MS), mid-summer drawdown (DD), or flooded (FL). After one season of vegetation development (1995) in the hydrologic treatments, half of the bins were left flat and the remaining were sloped to produce a finer moisture gradient within each bin. We compared taxa richness, community composition based on cover, and cover patterns of eight abundant species that developed in bins over the season (1996) after sloping. Species richness was significantly higher in the moist soil treatment and in sloped bins. Community composition, however, was affected by the hydrologic treatment only and not the finer-scale flooding gradient produced by sloping. Under flooded conditions, floating-leaved and submerged aquatics had higher cover; vegetation converged on simpler, less variable communities dominated by obligate wetland species, with species exhibiting different patterns of abundance over small changes in water depth. Emergent species typically had higher cover in moist soil and drawdown treatments. These results confirm a tight mechanistic link between hydrology and vegetation patterns within Carolina bays, but suggest that the strength of this link is not uniform across the gradient. The linkage weakens with drier conditions as both facultative wetland and upland species recruit into the standing vegetation.
41508830|Mesic deciduous forest herbs often disperse seed with morphophysiological dormancy (MPD) that prevents germination during unfavorable periods for seedling survival. However, for seeds of some species with MPD, seasonal separation of root and shoot emergence and variation in dormancy levels can complicate interpretation of seedling emergence timing in the field. We tested whether dormancybreak and germination requirements differed among co-occurring perennial forest herbs, Actaea racemosa, Hydrastis canadensis, and Sanguinaria canadensis, which are wild-harvested for their medicinal properties and known to have MPD. Seeds of all species exhibited a summer  autumn  winter requirement for seedling emergence in spring. However, species differed in seed-bank persistence due to variation in primary dormancy levels and stratification requirement of seeds. A. racemosa and H. canadensis can form short-term persistent seed bank, whereas S. canadensis can form a long-term persistent seed-bank, regardless of whether elaiosomes were removed from seeds prior to burial. A. racemosa seeds are dispersed in autumn with weak physiological dormancy, as seeds germinated to high rates at 15/6C after 8 weeks. In contrast, most seeds of the summer dispersed species, H. canadensis and S. canadensis, require summer temperatures to overcome physiological dormancy. Consequently, seedling emergence is reduced and delayed by 1 year if seeds are not sown immediately following the period of natural dispersal. Seedling emergence was much lower in the field than in controlled conditions for all species, especially in the small-seeded A. racemosa. Interspecific variation in dormancy levels and germination traits must be considered when establishing populations for conservation purposes and in understanding recruitment limitation in perennial forest herbs.
20146432|In climatic chambers seed germination and seedling growth of Pinus densiflora Sieb. et Zucc., Quercus serrata Thunb., Quercus mongolica Fisch. ex Turcz. and Quercus variablilis B1. were investigated as functions of light intensity and soil moisture. In Korea these tree species occur widely and form mixed forests with different distributions. Species clearly differed in the pattern of germination and early seedling growth between light and soil treatments. The germination of pine did not differ between the experimental treatments until the breaking of the primary buds. After that, light intensity was the deciding factor for further development. In the most moist treatment (approx. field capacity) growth of the pine seedlings was strongly inhibited. For the three oak species, differences between experimental treatments first occurred after complete formation of primary leaves. Seed development strongly correlated with the weight of the acorn. The large seeded Q. variabilis (acorns with mean weight of 4.7 g) developed faster and reached larger dimensions towards the end of the experiment than Q. mongolica (2.8 g per acorn) and Q. serrata (0.9 g per acorn). Regarding height and biomass growth, the oak species showed a higher shade tolerance than pine. The proleptic shoot growth was clearly influenced by the light intensity. Root formation was favoured by a high exposure to light. In case of the oak species reduction of soil moisture increased the length of primary roots and the number of secondary roots.
20146769|In the tropical dry forest of Dzibilchaltn, Yucatan, Mexico, light microhabitats, tissue acidity changes, chlorophyll fluorescence and growth were investigated for the epiphytic bromeliad Tillandsia brachycaulos Schltdl. Most individuals occurred in sites between 20 and 60% of the height of the tree, and directly on the main trunk or branches closed to the main trunk. During the dry season, individuals received about nine times more photon flux density (PFD) than during the rainy season. Individuals that occurred under 30-59% of the daily ambient PFD showed greater leaf length increase and monthly leaf production, and produced more flowers than individuals in the brighter (&gt60% of ambient PFD) and the darker (11-29% of ambient PFD) light microhabitats. Well-watered plants acclimated to deep shade (6% of ambient PFD) showed values of tissue acidity similar to plants under higher light treatments. Well-watered plants under 60% of daily ambient PFD showed low values of maximum quantum efficiency at midday during most of the year but showed similar values of tissue acidity than plants under 6 and 30% of ambient PFD. Leaf temperatures of plants in low sites within the canopy and on the forest floor were significantly higher than the air during about 1 h, indicating that those plants could not dissipate the excess of heat. Individuals located in the most shaded microhabitats could also receive less amount of water from rainfall and dew. Therefore, it would be less damaging for this epiphytic bromeliad to occur in the most exposed microhabitats than in the most shaded microhabitats in this tropical dry forest.
40305484|Spatial associations between columnar cacti and mimosoid shrubs were evaluated in an Andean semidesert enclave. An analysis on the capacity of other deciduous shrub species and medium-sized ephemeral plants to modify the spatial distribution of cacti was also included. The number of Stenocereus griseus (Haw.) F. Buxb., Cereus repandus (L.) Backeb. and Pilosocereus tillianus Gruber & Schaftzl that grow below the canopies of perennial plants were assessed and compared with open areas. Comparison of observed and expected number of cactus individuals shows a positive spatial association between 5. griseus and Prosopis juliflora DC. Moreover, abundance of C. repandus and P. tillianus under the canopies of mimosoid shrubs were not statistically different from what was expected by chance. Positive spatial association between S. griseus and Capparis odoratissima Jacq., Cassia emarginata L., Cordia curassavica (Jacq.) Roem. & Schult., Croton rhamnifolius H. B. K. and Jatropha gossypifolia L. was also found. Evidence suggests that positive columnar cacti-shrub spatial association may occur either in the cactus thickets or in the thornscrubs. Due to the clumped distributions of S. griseus beneath P. juliflora and other perennial plants, we here postulate that 5. griseus is the primary nursed columnar cactus of the enclave. The presence of cacti in open areas suggests that facilitation may be less important for establishment of columnar cacti species in this Andean semidesert landscape than in other temperate and tropical semiarid zones. We here discuss the importance of the nurse syndrome phenomenon for recruitment of S. griseus and for the conservation of this Andean semiarid environment.
40305744|Plant litter is an important determinant of seed germination and seedling establishment. Positive effects of litter have received considerable attention, but few studies have explicitly tested whether seedlings are more facilitated by conspecific litter compared to heterospecific litter. In order to contrast conspecific and heterospecific facilitative effects on seedling establishment, we used Anthriscus sylvestris, Angelica sylvestris, Pimpinella saxifraga and different combinations of their seeds and litter seedbeds as a model system. Although litter had a significant speciesspecific effect on seedling emergence, we found no evidence of strictly conspecific facilitation. Anthriscus sylvestris displayed a positive response to all types of litter. In contrast, there was a clear negative effect of conspecific litter in Pimpinella saxifraga. Activated carbon did not modify the negative effect, indicating that chemical compounds were not the cause. Our study suggests a high level of idiosyncrasy in response to litter at the species level.
24553700|A framework to monitor mountain summit vegetation (The Global Observation Research Initiative in Alpine Environments, GLORIA) was initiated in 1997. GLORIA results should be taken within a regional context of the spatial variability of alpine tundra. Changes observed at GLORIA sites in Glacier National Park, Montana, USA are quantified within the context of the range of variability observed in alpine tundra across much of western North America. Dissimilarity is calculated and used in nonmetric multidimensional scaling for repeated measures of vascular species cover at 14 GLORIA sites with 525 nearby sites and with 436 sites in western North America. The lengths of the trajectories of the GLORIA sites in ordination space are compared to the dimensions of the space created by the larger datasets. The absolute amount of change on the GLORIA summits over 5 years is high, but the degree of change is small relative to the geographical context. The GLORIA sites are on the margin of the ordination volumes with the large datasets. The GLORIA summit vegetation appears to be specialized, arguing for the intrinsic value of early observed change in limited niche space.
23362421|There has been a dramatic shift in dominance from Stipa grandis communities to S. krylovii communities in the Inner Mongolia steppe of China, in recent decades due to climate change and human activity. We examined the growth and carbohydrate allocation pattern of S. grandis and S. krylovii under controlled conditions. The experimental approach involved a drought stress treatment and a simulated defoliation (clipping) treatment of both species. Growth (above ground biomass and root biomass) and carbon allocation (concentration of leaf total phenolics and pool of total non-structural carbohydrate) variables were evaluated at the end of the experiment. Responses to drought stress differed significantly between S. grandis and S. krylovii. For S. krylovii, growth and the pool of total non-structural carbohydrate were more negatively affected by drought stress, whereas concentration of total phenolics was positively affected. Drought stress reinforced responses to defoliation, and drought stress  defoliation interaction was significant for all of the variables. There was a distinct defoliation response level for growth after drought stress between the two species. For aboveground biomass, both species responded positively to drought stress, which changed from responses equivalence to S. krylovii being superior; for root biomass, the two species responded oppositely to drought stress, which changed from S. grandis being superior to S. krylovii being superior. There was a weak and reverse defoliation response level for the carbon allocation pattern after drought stress between the two species, with S. krylovii changing from superior in defense to superior in storage. These results suggested that S. grandis utilized an avoidance strategy (investment in defense compounds) and S. krylovii utilized a tolerance strategy (investment in storage for regrowth) in response to defoliation under drought stress, supporting the idea that stress-tolerant species may become the new dominant species because of their ability to regrow after disturbance. This provided a possible explanation for the replacement of S. grandis communities from the view point of adaptive strategy.
41508682|Crown exposure to light (CE) and tree allometry were investigated for 11 species in a snowy cool-temperate secondary forest dominated by Fagus crenata and Betula ermanii in Japan. The 11 species differentiated horizontal and vertical light gradients for regeneration. CE was highly variable across species in small trees, but variation in CE decreased with increasing height. The 11 species were classified into three patterns of height-dependent change in CE in comparison to community-level trends, and rank reversal of CE with increasing height was not apparent. Allometric relationships between trunk diameter (D) and height (H) and between D and trunk length (L) differed little between trees of high and low CE within species. In contrast, slopes of the allometric relationships between D and H differed across species; species with larger maximum height (H max ) were taller at a given D, as was noted in previous studies of warmtemperate and tropical forest trees. Differences in trunk angle among the species of different H max were the main factor generating the differences in allometric relationships between D and H in this forest. Trunk angle increased with increasing height in the species of large H max but decreased in those of small H max . Hence, allometric relationships between D and L were not related to H max . Since the species of small H max grow laterally and are easily covered in snow during winter while those of large H max grow vertically above snow cover, differences in trunk angle may reflect species mechanical properties.
20146352| Montane moist evergreen broad-leaved forest, dominated by Lithocarpus and Castanopsis species, is the most extensive stand of subtropical mountain in Yunnan Province, SW China. Litter production, standing crop of litter on forest floor and nutrient return patterns were studied over nine years (1991-1999) in a stand of primary evergreen broad-leaved forest in northern crest of the Ailao Mountain Range. There were significant yearly variations in litter production, which is mainly related with the masting year of canopy species, and exceptional physical events (strong winds and snow) in the natural forest. The mean annual small litterfall is 7.12 t ha yr of which leaf litter account for 65% of the total litterfall. The seasonality of small litterfall was bia-modal, with the main one in the late dry season (April-May) and a lesser one in early winter (October-November). Decomposition quotient value was relatively low with 0.58 for total small litterfall. Mean large-wood ( 2.5 cm in diameter) ranged from 0.21 to 1.41 t ha yr with a mean of 0.52 t ha yr. Concentrations of most elements in leaf and twig were slightly greater in wet months than dry months, except for C and K. Woody litter had low N and P concentrations compared with the leaf and reproductive parts. Nutrient return to the soil through small litterfall decrease in the order C&gtN&gtCa&gtK&gtMg&gtMn&gtAl&gtP&gtFe, while nutrient reserve in litter on the forest floor was in the declining sequence C&gtN&gtCa&gtK&gtMg&gtP&gtFe&gtAl&gtMn. 
20051047|A central objective of many ecophysiological investigations is the establishment of mechanistic explanations for plant distributions in time and space. The important, albeit mostly ignored, question arises as to the nature of the organisms that should be used as representative in pertinent experiments. We suggest that it is essential to use a 'demographic approach' in physiological ecology, because physiological parameters such as photosynthetic capacity (PC, determined under non-limiting conditions with the oxygen electrode) may change considerably with plant size. A survey of ten vascular epiphyte species from Central Panama revealed an up to fivefold continuous increase in PC from small to large conspecifics. Moreover, the intraspecific variation in PC was almost always higher than the interspecific variation when comparing only large individuals. Theoretical considerations and additional evidence from other ecophysiological experiments corroborate the conclusion that size must be taken into account in the design of ecophysiological experiments with vascular epiphytes. In the past, most studies have ignored plant size, which may now lead to complications in the hitherto unambiguous interpretation of their results.
20050467|The morphology of the 11 taxa of South American Nothofagus are compared. Thirty eight characteristics were taken into account: 12 from leaves, 3 from stipules, 3 from buds, 6 from cupules, 7 from fruits, 4 from petioles and 3 from male flowers. The data matrix, with average values of 100 measurements per taxon, was analyzed with multivariate statistical methods of classification and polar and spatial ordination. Five groups were established: The first one (Nothofagus obliqua, N. obliqua var. macrocarpa, N. leoni and N. alessandrii), with deciduous leaves, is adapted to mediterranean climatic conditions. The second groups (N. dombeyi, N. nitida and N. antarctica), with small leaves which are evergreen for the first two species and deciduous for the last, develops under temperate humid conditions typical of the Valdivian region. The three remaining groups correspond to isolated species with different requirements: N. glauca, has large deciduous leaves and colonizes the most xerophytic biotope that a Nothofagus in central Chile can tolerate. N. pumilio, with mid-sized deciduous leaves, is adapted to the cold and dry zones of the southern Andes. Finally, N. betuloides, with small evergreen leaves, grows in the cold/humid somewhat boggy conditions of the Magellanic region.
40305532|Allelopathic inhibition of germination by Florida scrub plants has been demonstrated in the greenhouse and lab, but not in the field. We studied the allelopathic effects of Florida rosemary (Ceratiola ericoides) roots, leaves, and litter leachates on field germination and three-month survival of six Florida scrub species, three habitat generalists (Lechea deckertii, Palafoxia feayi, and Polygonella robusta), and three rosemary scrub specialists (Hypericum cumulicola, Lechea cernua, and Polygonella basiramia). We used AIC and model averaging to evaluate support for a series of non-exclusive hypotheses. Species varied in germination (2.7-24.6%) and survival (39.2-71%) percentages, and in their sensitivity to leachates. Germination of scrub species was most negatively affected by leaf > root > litter leachates, although not all species followed the overall trend. Additional germination suppression by leachate combinations (relative to single leachates) was minimal. Sites did not vary in germination, but seedling survival did differ among sites. This study further documents the negative impact of Florida rosemary leachates on the germination of co-occurring plant species. Allelopathy may be partly responsible for bare sand gaps in Florida rosemary scrub, and therefore be one of the forces structuring Florida rosemary scrub ecosystems.
23500335|Fire activity in the North American boreal region is projected to increase under a warming climate and trigger changes in vegetation composition. In black spruce forests of interior Alaska, fire severity impacts residual organic layer depth which is strongly linked to the relative dominance of deciduous versus coniferous trees in early succession. These alternate successional pathways may be reinforced by biogeochemical processes that affect the relative ability of deciduous versus coniferous trees to acquire limiting nutrients. To test this hypothesis, we examined changes in soil inorganic nitrogen (N) supply and in situ 15N root uptake by aspen (Populus tremuloides) and black spruce (Picea mariana) saplings regenerating in lightly and severely burned sites, 16 years following fire. Fire severity did not impact the composition or magnitude of N supply, and nitrate represented nearly 40 % of total N supply. Both aspen and spruce took up more N in severely burned than in lightly burned sites. Spruce exhibited only a moderately lower rate of nitrate uptake, and a higher ammonium uptake rate than aspen in severely burned sites. At the stand level, differences in species nutrient uptake were magnified, with aspen taking up nearly an order-of-magnitude more N per m 2 in severely burned than in lightly burned sites. We suggest that differences in nutrient sinks (biomass) established early in succession and effects of post-fire organic layer depth on nutrient uptake, are key mechanisms reinforcing the opposing stand dominance patterns that have developed in response to variations in organic layer depth.
20146574|This paper deals with the dynamics of postfire regeneration of Pinus brutia Ten. in an artificial forest ecosystem of North Greece, after a fire in 1982. The following issues are studied: the natural development of P. brutia stands 20 years after the fire, the current stand structure, and the influence of thinning treatment on stand population dynamics and tree growth patterns. The present work summarises and updates data taken during the years 1987-2002. The results show that the postfire regeneration was successful and contributed to the re-establishment of the pre-fire forest not only at the sites of good quality but at the medium quality sites as well. Regarding the postfire development, it is observed that an abundant P. brutia re-establishment is followed by a natural and gradual reduction of tree population caused by the influence of the physical environment during the early postfire years and caused by self-thinning later. The stands have entered the stem exclusion stage and they are growing at a narrow spacing in all cases. The evolution pattern and the stand structure were affected by thinning, which resulted in the improvement of tree quality and growth and accelerated their early fruition, thus contributing to higher ecosystem resilience.
40305647|Previous studies have tested the "vernal dam" hypothesis of spring ephemeral herbs in hardwood forests. The desert annual is a component of the desert ecosystem that takes advantage of water resources and temperature conditions during the rainy season to rapidly complete its life cycle within several months. To understand the role desert annual/ephemeral plants play in nutrient flow, we studied vegetation cover, nitrogen content and litter production of annual plants and litter decomposition rate in plant communities dominated by four shrubs (Haloxlon ammodendron, Hedysarum scopariwn, Calligonum mongolicum, and Nitraria tangutorum) and two dominant annuals {Agriophyllum squarrosum and Halogeton arachnoideus Moq) in Minqin, northwestern China. Results indicate that over half of the total vegetation cover was provided by annuals. Annuals also took up a large amount of nitrogen (0.46-3.78 g N m) along the oasis-desert ecotone. Litter production and nutrient content were higher in areas dominated by annual plants than in areas dominated by shrubs. Furthermore, the litter decomposition rate of the annuals was higher than that of the shrubs, except for the shrub H. ammodendron, although almost all of the litter's carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) remained after 6 months of decomposition. Without the annuals, more nutrients and rainwater might be lost through leaching or dust transfer caused by the wind erosion. In addition, green twigs of the annuals are the food for some animals, we found some green twigs and litter from annuals left in front of gerbil and rabbit burrows, sometimes even blocking these burrows. Thus, desert summer annuals, like nutrient reservoirs and providers, take up nutrients during the rainy season, providing some animals and microbes with food, and finally release these nutrients after death.
40305437|A broad range of herbaceous plant comunities in a Mediterranean Landscape in central Italy, running from heavily urbanized areas to semi-natural pastures, has been studied. These communities can be easily arranged along a gradient of ruderality. We inspected which of a series of soil parameters could better explain this gradient (pH, CaCO, granulometry, N, P, C/N, P/N). We show that (1) the single most important explanatory variable is P/N ratio of soil; (2) nitrogen and carbon pools in soil are related, in the set of communities studied, with another gradient of decreasingly frequent, predictable, moderate disturbance such as trampling. We discuss the meaning of these results.
41508804|Frost damage and re-foliation are seldom quantified for forest species, but are of ecological and evolutionary importance. This study of Aesculus glabra (Ohio buckeye) in a deciduous forest remnant in Illinois, USA, quantified frost damage to leaves and flowers after sub-freezing temperatures in April 2007, It also documented re-foliation and later growth, reproduction, and survival in 2007-2009 for the 355 study individuals of four life stages growing 0-200 m from the forest edge. Life stages differed in % leaf damage because of differences in phenology during the frost. Large saplings with fully expanded, immature leaves had higher % damage and lower % canopy fullness after re-foliation than smaller saplings with partially or fully mature leaves and canopy trees undergoing shoot expansion with folded leaflets. Percent damage increased for saplings closer to edges. Large saplings with heavier frost damage to leaves had partial re-foliation in deep shade, lower % canopy fullness, earlier senescence, a shorter growing season, and greater death of next year's buds. By 2008, large saplings with greater damage in 2007 had more dead branches and lower % canopy fullness. By 2009, 11% of large saplings had died. In 2007, frost damaged no flowers, but final fruit crop size was negatively related to % leaf damage. Edge trees with total leaf damage aborted all fruits. The frost event differentially affected individuals in their length and time of growing season, energy budget, and, ultimately, reproduction, and survival. The population's local-scale demography and spatial pattern also changed as large saplings died.
20050504|We examined the spatial structure and regeneration of Tetramerista glabra, a dominant canopy tree in peat swamp rain forest in Borneo (West Kalimantan, Indonesia). T. glabra has strong spatial structure that changes dramatically during the life cycle; seedlings were highly aggregated, saplings were random and trees were evenly distributed. Germination and seedling relative growth were highest within canopy gaps, but seedling densities were highest at gap edges. Concentration of seedlings in gap edges, rather than localized seed dispersal, was responsible for seedling patchiness. The slope of the relationship between relative growth rate and seedling height decreased from gap, to gap edge to understory habitats, suggesting that competition within the seedling layer is more important in gaps than in the understory. The processes that break down seedling aggregation, leading to over-dispersion of trees, must be density dependent, but remain unknown.
20146482|In the present paper we studied the life history traits related to seed germination of Stipa tenacissima, a key species in semiarid environments of western Mediterranean areas. S. tenacissima is a perennial tussock grass, which has traditionally been considered to expand mainly by vegetative propagation with little or no sexual reproduction. We analysed seed longevity as well as the type of seed dormancy and the role of the seed covers from seeds collected from different populations in SE Spain. We also studied the variation in seed germinability among populations, individuals, and years and the ability of seeds of S. tenacissima to form soil seed banks. There was significant variation in seed germination among individuals, populations and years. Lemma and palea were the main factor controlling these differences since their removal promoted higher and faster germination and eliminated the differences in germination parameters among populations. However, the control of dormancy by lemma and palea was independent of their weight, suggesting that their chemical nature plays a more important role than does size in controlling seed germination. Mechanical scarification treatments (via abrasion with sand) did not affect seed germination. The decay in seed germinability two years after seed collection and the low density of viable seeds in soils one year after seed dispersal indicated that S. tenacissima forms transient soil seed banks.
20051334|Cover data for 93 perennial plant species from fifty 1 ha sites, were used to ordinate desert vegetation in relation to 50 environmental variables at El Huizache Corridor. Cumulative variance recovered in the Bray and Curtis variance-regression ordination was substantial (80%). Community structure of desert plant communities at El Huizache Corridor may be influenced primarily by a combination of landscape and edaphic variables, which in turn may determine the distribution and abundance of moisture and nutrients, and perhaps promote habitat specialization and or competitive exclusion. Secondly, to a lesser extent, climate variables could be influencing community organization at small scale gradients, the longer the gradient the more relevant climatic factors become. First axis represented a landscape gradient; it was positively correlated to exposure, geology, slope angle, rocks, stoniness, iron, January mean temperature, and organic matter content; it was negatively correlated with latitude, longitude, soil depth, and potassium content. The second axis represented mainly a climatic gradient; it was positively correlated with mean precipitation of January, February, July, August, September, November, December, annual mean precipitation, Lang's Index, organic matter content, and stoniness. The third axis represented an edaphic gradient; it was positively correlated with electrical conductivity, Mn, Zn and elevation, and negatively correlated with pH, nitrates, Ca, and disturbance. These findings should guide conservation efforts to maintain species diversity and endemism at this area.
41508678|The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of large wood (LW) on the physical environment and the initial establishment of vascular plant species in the Rekifune River, a large barbraided monsoonal river in Japan. The physical environment and the diversity and composition of plant species were compared in relation to the orientation of LW pieces. We found that shading effects were more prevalent in the immediate vicinity of LW pieces than in quadrats distant from LW. The effect was especially strong at the center of LW jams (the "jam center"). Fine sand and silt were concentrated in the quadrats downstream from the LW pieces. In contrast, cobbles dominated the upstream quadrats. The highest diversity was found in the jam center, while intermediate values were observed in the quadrats surrounding LW. Indicator species analysis detected 21 indicator species only in the jam center. The LW jams favored the deposition of plant fragments and sediment and created shaded areas within and around the structures. Buried seeds may be transported with LW during a flood, and seeds dispersed by wind and stream flows may be trapped by the complex structure of LW jams. The specific environmental conditions and the trapping of seeds and plant fragments result in the early establishment of mid-successional tree species at LW jams. In conclusion, the LW pieces deposited on gravel bars altered the light and substrate conditions and thereby provided specific safe sites for various riparian plant species.
20050647|Average species-area curves were generated for vascular plants in 20 old-fields that were sampled in 1983, 1989, and 1994. These curves were fit with a saturating function to estimate total species richness for each old-field. Additional estimates of total species richness were generated by fitting the same saturating function to subsets of the species area curves and with a first-order jackknife procedure. Estimates of total species richness were strongly correlated with observed species richness. There was limited evidence suggesting that greater sampling was necessary to identify the same proportion of species in older, more species-rich old-fields.
20050829|The germination responses of 32 temperate Carex species were tested in light and darkness at five constant temperatures and under one fluctuating temperature regime, before and after cold-wet stratification. Using a linear logistic regression model, the probability of germination tested across all species was found to be significantly higher after stratification, in light and at the fluctuating temperature. In addition, the probability increased with temperature. Stratification increased germination in 28 species and had very little or no effect on four species. There was almost no germination in darkness prior to stratification, and the germination in light was considerably higher in all but two species compared with that in darkness. Thus, it can be concluded that the Carex species tested have broadly similar germination response patterns. The fact that Carices can be released from high levels of primary dormancy by low-temperature stratification implies that they are spring germinators. A light requirement after stratification in the major fraction of seeds and the capability of almost all investigated sedges to respond to fluctuating temperatures make it likely that persistent seed banks are formed. Additionally, sedges generally seem to have a high temperature requirement for germination which prevents them from emerging at the very beginning of the growing season. Regeneration by seed is probably largely restricted to gaps resulting from late spring disturbances where buried seeds have an opportunity to germinate and grow. Differences in germination were apparent between species occupying different habitats. Overall germination was significantly higher in wetland species than in dry-site species, probably owing to the greater capability of wetland species to respond to fluctuating temperatures. Differences in germination between forest and open-site species can be attributed to the higher capability of forest sedges to respond to low temperatures and temperature fluctuations. The influence of seed weight on germination was not significant in the 18 species adapted to wet, open habitats. There was, however, a tendency for the germination percentages to be low for large-seeded Carices. The interpretation of habitat differences is difficult due to a positive correlation between seed weight and dry habitats.
23267386|We studied the relationships between size, growth, and survival for two functional groups, the persistent canopy and understory dominant tree species in a tropical gallery forest in Southeastern Brazil. In 28 plots of 10  30 m we tagged, identified, and measured the diameter of all trees with diameter at ground level 5 cm in 1993/1994, 1998, and 2004. We choose the three dominant canopy species (Protium spruceanum, Copaifera langsdorffii, and Pera glabrata) and two dominant understory species (Ixora brevifolia and Trichilia emarginata) for the comparisons. We assessed the relationship between previous growth rates and mortality, variation in growth and mortality rates among size classes, and temporal correlations in growth rates. Trees (whole community) with null or negative growth had a higher mortality, although this effect was not significant for individual species. Growth patterns were consistent along consecutive periods of evaluation for canopy species, but not for understory species. Canopy species had higher and more variable growth rates than understory species, which we attribute to greater access to light at the canopy level and also to a wider range of light conditions experienced during growth. Canopy species and one understory species, T. emarginata, showed accelerated growth as they became larger. Mortality rates were higher for the smallest trees for the community overall and for P. spruceanum.
20050418|The germination of seeds of seven plant species occurring in a dune grassland vegetation of the Netherlands, was studied at four levels of UV-B radiation simulating unto 45% stratospheric ozone reduction during April. With the exception of seeds of Senecio jacobaea, germination of the dune grassland species was not affected by enhanced UV-B irradiance. Although a clear UV-B fluence-response relationship was not observed, the germination rate of S. jacobaea seeds and maximal germination percentage were reduced at enhanced UV-B. Germination rate in the dark was higher than germination in the light for Oenothera biennis, Plantago lanceolata, Rumex obtusifolius and S. jacobaea. Total dry biomass accumulation of seedlings was not affected by increased UV-B radiation in any of the species tested. Clear-cut differences in UV-absorbance of methanolic extracts were observed between species. Enhanced UV-B irradiance stimulated UV-absorbance of seedling extracts of Holcus lanatus and Verbascum thapsus. A clear UV-B fluence-response relationship was observed for both species. The results indicate that germination of the studied plant species probably will not be adversely affected by the expected stratospheric ozone reduction in The Netherlands.
20050981|The African Acacia species A. raddiana is believed to be endangered in the Negev desert of Israel. The ecology of this species is not well understood. The main idea of our study is to learn more about the long-term population dynamics of these trees using snapshot information in the form of size frequency distributions. These distributions are highly condensed indices of population dynamics acting over many years. In this paper, we analyse field data on recruitment, growth, and mortality and use an existing simulation model of the population dynamics of A. raddiana (SAM) to produce contrasting scenarios of these live history processes that are based on the analysed field evidence. The main properties of simulated as well as observed tree size frequency distributions are characterised with Simpson's index of dominance and a new permutation index. Finally, by running the SAM model under the different scenarios, we study the effect of these different processes on simulated size frequency distributions (pattern) and we compare them to size distributions observed in the field, in order to identify the processes acting in the field. Our study confirms rare recruitment events as a major factor shaping tree size frequency distributions and shows that the paucity of recruitment has been a normal feature of A. raddiana in the Negev over many years. Irregular growth, e.g., due to episodic rainfall, showed a moderate influence on size distributions. Finally, the size frequency distributions observed in the Negev reveal the information that, in this harsh environment, mortality of adult A. raddiana is independent of tree size (age).
41508667|Resprouting woody plants are vulnerable to large mammal herbivores in the early stages of regeneration after disturbance (e.g., fire, slashing), because herbivory reduces the storage of below-ground starch reserves and may thus compromise regeneration success. Defence from herbivory may incur a cost to resprouter plants in terms of lengthening the time to recovery of pre-disturbance starch levels. Erica scoparia and E. australis (Ericaceae), two resprouter woody species that co-occur in Mediterranean heath-communities of the Strait of Gibraltar, differ in the way they cope with herbivory: E. scoparia is browsing-tolerant and E. australis is a browsing-avoider. Our experimental field study demonstrated that exposure to a moderate density of ungulate herbivores markedly lowered starch re-storage after resprouting in E. scoparia, but not in E. australis. Nevertheless, time to recover pre-disturbance starch levels was shorter in the tolerant E. scoparia, even under exposure to herbivores. The slower starch recovery rate of E. australis is a likely outcome of its resource-demanding browsing-avoidance mechanism. Differences in starch recovery rates after disturbance between the two Erica species partly explains their ecological segregation at the landscape scale.
40212892|Year-round flowering is widely reported in fig trees and is necessary for the survival of their short-living, specialized Agaonid pollinators. However, seasonality in both fig and leaf production has been noted in almost all published phenological studies. We have addressed the following questions in the present study: (1) Are reproductive and vegetative phenologies seasonal and, consequently, related to climate? (2) Does Ficus citrifolia produce ripe figs year round? (3) Is the fig development related to climate? And, (4) Are reproductive and vegetative phenologies independent? By investigating these questions with a K citrifolia population over a two-year period, at the southern edge of the tropical region in Brazil, we detected phenological seasonality that was significantly correlated with climate. Our findings can be summarized as follows: (1) Trees became deciduous during the cold and dry months; (2) The flowering onset was asynchronous among individuals, but with moderate concentration during the hot and rainy months; (3) There was a correlation between the onset of flowering and vegetative phenology, with significantly higher crop initiations in individuals with full-leaf canopy; (4) Fig developmental time was longer in cold months; and (5) Ripe fig production occurred year-round and was not correlated with climate. Our results suggest that there are strong selection pressures that maintain the year-round flowering phenology in figs, for we have observed little seasonality in the phenology of such species despite the strong seasonality in the environment.
20051079|Pulmonaria officinalis is an understorey spring geophyte, which starts its vegetative period before full foliation of the tree storey. During its early growth phase it is exposed to full solar radiation, therefore the enhanced UV-B radiation could present a threat to this species. An outdoor experiment in which potted plants were exposed to below ambient, ambient, and above ambient (corresponding to 17% ozone reduction) UV-B radiation, was conducted in order to evaluate the radiation effects. The amount of photosynthetic pigments and photochemical efficiency of PSII were not affected, but the amount of UV-B absorbing compounds was lower in plants grown under reduced UV-B. This change was measurable after only fourteen days in reproductive shoots, while in the vegetative shoots, it was not detectable until after three months. The leaves of P. officinalis are variegated and the light green spots became less transparent to PAR under enhanced UV-B. The results reveal that under simulated 17% ozone depletion the harmful effects of UV-B on the measured parameters were negligible.
40212874|Life-history variation in annuals is known to be caused by size requirements for photoinduction of flowering, but the importance of germination date and injury was overlooked so far even though they may play an important role in disturbed habitats. To test the effect of germination date and timing of injury on life-history variation of an annual plant, we performed a 2-year pot experiment with the root-sprouting herb Rorippa palustris. Plants belonging to six different cohorts, and sown at monthly intervals from April to September, were injured (all stem parts removed) in three ontogenetic stages: vegetative rosettes, flowering plants and fruiting plants. Plants from the April, and partly from the May, cohort behaved as summer annuals: they started to bolt at the same time, resprouted and overwintered poorly. Plants from the June cohort flowered in the first season as well, but they entered the bolting stage a month later than the preceding cohorts, produced the least fruits, but overwintered successfully and flowered again the second year (polycarpic perennials). Cohorts germinating after the summer solstice did not flower during the first year and, with the exception of the September cohort, overwintered successfully and flowered the second year (winter annuals). After injury, the pattern of life-histories was the same as in control plants, although generative reproduction was interrupted by injury in the first year of the experiment. About one quarter of plants injured in the vegetative stage regenerated after injury irrespective of cohort, however, regeneration was enhanced in larger plants. Regeneration of plants in the flowering and fruiting stages depended on date of injury in relation to day length, being the most successful after the summer solstice. Life-history variation, together with the ability to resprout after severe injury in the pioneer wetland herb Rorippa palustris is caused by its ability to germinate throughout the season. Even the second tested factor, the effect of injury, is modified by germination time. The experiment points to a complex nature of factors affecting lifehistory variation as well as resprouting after severe injury in short lived plants.
23500348|In this paper we test the Ellner and Shmida's hypothesis that in semiarid environments aridity may select for the lack of seed dispersal mechanisms (atelechory) of many plants, whereas post-dispersal selective forces such as soil erosion, seed predation or limitations to water uptake by seeds may select for structures facilitating seed anchorage to the ground (antitelechory). We analyzed the proportions of species with seed anchorage mechanisms and that of atelechoric species in shrublands colonizing flat areas and hillslopes in two sites differing in climate dryness. Their relation with several soil properties involved in runoff generation, seedsoil contact and water uptake by seeds and with nest density of granivorous ants was also explored. Our results support the hypothesis that in semiarid shrublands the proportion of species with seed anchorage mechanisms increases because of soil erosion but not because of climate dryness. This is the first time that a direct relation between the proportion of species with seed anchorage mechanisms and soil erosion is shown in plant communities; supporting the view that soil erosion shapes species composition in communities.
20146747|Seed dispersal has become an important issue in plant ecology and restoration management. In this paper we examined dung germinating seed content and seed deposition patterns of horses (Shetland and Konik breeds) and Scottish Highland cattle grazing two coastal dune nature reserves. Two times 2.5 1 of fresh dung from each type of herbivore were collected during seven sessions in the main fruiting season. Dung samples were placed under greenhouse conditions after drying and cooling. Animal defecation patterns were derived from a study of herbivore activities during 6 h observation sessions 8 times a month. One hundred and seventeen plant species i.e. 27% of all species occurring in the study area, were recorded as seedlings emerging from the dung samples. The most abundantly and frequently recorded plant species were Urtica dioica, Juncus spp. and different species of Poaceae and Caryophyllaceae. In general seedling density is high (1158 seedlings/dung sample). Seedling density and species richness were further analysed in order to detect temporal variability and possible animal and site related characteristics. Dung deposition patterns reflect a non-random use of habitats and hence a non-random seed deposition among habitats. Calculated seed deposition per square meter ranged from a few (&lt 10 germinating seeds) to more than 100 in the most frequently selected habitats. From the herbivores' selective habitat use and their estimated mean retention time we can further assume their ability for inter-habitat endozoochorous seed dispersal. This characteristic of large herbivores is further discussed in the light of nature management and restoration.
40666625|The rare and endangered plant Primulina tabacum is a calciphilous perennial herb found only at the entrances of a small number of karst cave drainages in southern China. In a conservation effort, we identified potentially suitable habitats and reintroduced P. tabacum plantlets (propagated in vitro) to one historical and two new cave entrances. The transplanted seedlings survived (10%) at only one new location where a moss, Gymnostomiella longinervis Broth, existed. Our field observations indicate that it is probably impossible for this rare plant to naturally recolonize the places where it went extinct because the habitats have changed. Transplanted P. tabacum grew slower than wild P. tabacum. The transplanted P. tabacum performed especially well under the cover of the nursing moss. Positive interactions between species, i.e., nurse plant effects, are important for reintroduction of success. Although light and soil conditions also appeared to be critical for transplantation success, the presence of moss should be considered as a useful and convenient indicator of suitable habitat for P. tabacum. This study case suggests that the use of new propagation methods and nurse plants can facilitate the rintroduction of rare and endangered herbs.
23362426|This study compares sexual regeneration of two species of Clusia L. (Clusiaceae). The two woody perennials co-occur on a neotropical inselberg in French Guiana. I studied whether the two congeners, which differ in ecological amplitudes, also differ in effectiveness of sexual regeneration and survival strategies, as suggested by previous evidence from different ecosystems. Animal dispersal, secondary removal, germination, seedling mortality and juvenile distribution were examined in an inselberg specialist (Clusia blattophila) and a species with a broader ecological amplitude (Clusia nemorosa). Habitat heterogeneity was accounted for. The two species differed in parameters of individual recruitment stages such as preservation of seed germinability, seedling mortality and juvenile distribution. C. blattophila, the inselberg specialist, suffered high losses during the whole recruitment process and had low juvenile density in spite of its large cover and dominance in the shrub patches. Survival is effected by individual persistence and supported by extensive vegetative growth. C. nemorosa has inefficient primary dispersal and high seedling mortality, but exhibits higher germination rate, higher preservation of seed germinability and numerous juveniles in the community. This suggests that sexual reproduction is important for C. nemorosa, but the ability to reproduce is limited due to the ecosystem characteristics. Microhabitat heterogeneity affected most recruitment stages, but the most suitable sites were not concordant across the recruitment stages. The highest juvenile density of both species occurred in shrub patches. From the long-term perspective of both species, this results in a limited ability to colonize open microhabitats, which may limit succession towards the edaphic climax.
40305438|Interdunal seasonal wetlands, known as dune slack wetlands, were mapped and their vegetation surveyed across a large region of dunes within the Cape Cod National Seashore. Wetland sizes and ages were estimated from digitized, georeferenced aerial photographs available from 1938, 1947, 1960, 1986, 1994, and 2001, and from LIDAR elevation data. A total of 346 sites were found, covering an area of ~45.4 ha., in which 97 species of vascular plants were identified. Vegetation structure and composition exhibited a distinct sequence of development with age, following a pattern of succession from herbaceous, graminoid-dominated communities to shrub-and tree-dominated communities. Floristic variables were not related to proximity to the coast and although wetland size appeared to have some bearing on species richness, the correlation was statistically weak. Soil organic matter determined for a subset of 60 wetlands was positively correlated with age and woody cover but showed no relationship with water depth. The results suggest that vegetation development is primarily driven by the internal mechanisms of succession. Notwithstanding, any changes in the environment that alter the process of succession will collectively influence these wetlands. In addition, stabilization of the dunes resulting in a reduction in the formation of new wetlands, may translate into permanent loss of early and mid-successional dune slack communities. Maintenance of these communities will depend on succession being periodically reset by disturbance or active management.
20051296|The population structure of the canopy liana Machaerium cuspidatum Kuhlm. & Hoehne (Fabaceae) was studied in ten transects covering a total of 2.5 ha of tropical rain forest in Yasun National Park, eastern Ecuador. The aim was to investigate how trellis availability, topographic position and light availability affected the population density and structure of the most abundant liana species in the area. The environmental variation affected plants in different size classes differently. Large plants (diameter  1 cm) were almost exclusively found in areas with low canopy and dense undergrowth. These areas had the highest density of suitable host plants. Seedling-sized plants (height &lt 30 cm) and saplings (height  30 cm but diameter &lt 1 cm) occurred more frequently and with higher density in steep upland areas than in the floodplains, presumably due to elevated seedling mortality in the periodically flooded areas. Seedling-sized plants and saplings did not grow in areas with elevated light levels, and although plants of all sizes were highly clumped, this clumping rarely coincided with patches with abundant canopy gaps. Machaerium cuspidatum reproduces clonally when branches re-root and break off from the parent plant. The density of clonally produced plants was high in areas where the density of sexually produced plants was low, whereas the total density varied little among habitat types. A higher proportion of the seedling-sized plants were of sexual origin in the upland areas. An environmentally induced increase in the production of independent ramets enables M. cuspidatum to persist in the floodplains. This shows that plants may expand their realised niches to habitats with a low potential for seedling survival if high seedling mortality can be compensated for by increased clonal reproduction.
40212879|Iberian gypsophile plant communities are considered a priority for conservation by the European Community because of their highly specialized flora in gypsum outcrops in arid and semiarid regions. Despite the ecological importance of these ecosystems, the edaphic factors that constrain plant communities on gypsiferous soils remain unclear. It has been proposed that both the chemical and physical restrictive conditions of gypsum soils determine gypsophily in plants. Here we hypothesize that the rigors of the gypsum soil environment depends on topography, decreasing from flat areas on hilltops to south-oriented slopes and finally to slopes oriented to the north. We also hypothesized that the relaxation of the rigors of the gypsum soil environment with topography affects both to individual plant and community characteristics of gypsophile vegetation: we expect a reduction of gypsophyte abundance, an increase of diversity and the amelioration of facilitative interactions of plant species. We analysed the physical and chemical properties of gypsum soils that have been proposed that determine the rigors of the gypsum soil environment (i.e.: unbalanced ion concentrations and superficial soil crust). The predicted rigor gradient along topographical locations was confirmed and was mainly caused by superficial soil crust. The decreasing rigor gradient was accompanied by a fall in the abundance of gypsophytes. However, when gypsophytes were considered separately, several patterns were observed, indicating distinct tolerance to relaxation of rigor of the gypsum soil conditions and different competition abilities between gypsophytes. Plant species were more clumped, and gypsophile communities presented higher diversity, evenness and richness values where rigor of gypsum soil conditions were maximum (flat hilltop positions). Relaxation of rigor (north-oriented slopes) was characterized by loss of facilitative interaction between species and the dominance of the gypsovag Rosmarinus officinalis L., although richness was still very high, which can be attributed to the coexistence of gypsophytes and gypsovags. We conclude that the rigor of gypsum soil environment gradient with topography is mainly determined by superficial soil crust, and it is a crucial determinant of gypsophile plant communities.
20146471|The occurrence of seasonal growth rings in the wood of Campsiandra laurifolia, Acosmiun nitens, Pouteria orinocoensis and Psidium ovatifolium, common species growing in the flooding forest of the Mapire river, was analyzed using wood anatomy and ring- width analysis. The test of the annual ring formation was performed using radiocarbon analysis based on the nuclear weapon effect. All species showed growth rings visible to the naked eye. The ring boundaries in all cases were marked by bands of marginal parenchyma. The index ring-width curves of the four studied species showed a strong relationship with the fluctuation of the water river level during the non flooded months, suggesting that an increase in the water level during these months positively influenced the growth indicating that the rings were formed on an annual basis. The content of radiocarbon in the wood of anatomically predated rings of Campsiandra laurifolia and Pouteria orinocoensis confirm these results. All studied trees are slow growing with less than 2.5 mm annual increment.
40802422|The aim of this study is to investigate distribution patterns of species occurring at definite spatial scales and to address the main ecological factors that structure a Mediterranean high mountain grassland community. Following the protocols of the GLORIA long-term study, four summits were sampled during the year 2006 and 2007 in Sierra de Guadarrama (Spain). The data recorded on two of those summits were analysed for spatial pattern of species, interspecific associations and environmental relationships were determined from the recorded data. This was done by multivariate analyses (ordinations), SADIE analyses (distance indices) and Pearson  test, respectively. Results showed that chamaephyte species were more abundant in less disturbed situations whilst caespitose hemicryptophyte species and mosses were more abundant in disturbed ones. High mountain species were more abundant in less disturbed situations. Higher spatial heterogeneity was detected on northern and eastern slopes, which could be related to the increased environmental severity of northern exposures and to the greater intensity of the disturbances on eastern exposures. The frequent aggregated distribution of a few species may be related to facilitation processes due to their frequent participation in positive interactions. Finally we observed that positive pairwise associations of species were more frequent than negative associations. The relevance of the studied relationships lied in a better understanding of those threats on high mountain biodiversity induced by climate warming.
20146575|This study investigates the genetic structure of brutia pine (Pinus brutia Ten.) stands that were exposed to wild fires. A systematic investigation within the species distribution in Greece first identified areas of frequent wild forest fires and then located stands that had experienced ground fires about 20 years ago. In these stands it was possible to sample the pre-fire population that had survived the ground fire event ("mature" population) as well as the post-fire population that has reached reproductive capacity ("young" population). Gel electrophoresis was used in order to study isoenzyme variability in four such populations present in two sites (Kourteri, Lesvos island and Mytilineoi, Samos island). Results indicated absence of notable differences in genetic diversity among the remnant mature populations and the young populations after regeneration. No significant inbreeding was detected and genetic identity among young and mature stands was high. However, some differences were observed in the frequencies of rare alleles and in the presence of interspecific (P. brutia x halepensis) hybrids in the young populations. This paper discusses the above results in the context of the evolution of brutia pine and the maintenance of its genetic variation.
20146729|Based on the animal dispersal hypothesis and the predator satiation hypothesis, we examined the effects of seed abundance at both population (i.e., mast seeding) and community levels on seed predation and dispersal of Castanopsis fargesii (Fagaceae), a rodent-dispersed mast species in Eastern Asia. In a subtropical evergreen broadleaved forest in the Dujiangyan region of Sichuan Province, China, individual seeds with coded tin tags were tracked in two contrasting stands (seed-poor and seed-rich) over two years (2000, a low-seed year; 2001, a high-seed year). Our results showed that: (1) small rodents did not harvest the tagged seeds of C. fargesii more rapid in the high-seed year than in the low-seed year in either stand. But, seed harvest was significantly faster in the seed-rich stand than in the seed-poor stand. (2) The removal proportion was significantly lower in the high-seed year than in the low-seed year for either stand, but the removal proportion was slightly higher in the seed-poor stand than in the seed-poor stand. This indicates that high seed abundance decreases seed removal (predator satiation hypothesis). (3) There were only small differences about seed caching, seed survival and seedling establishment of C. fargesii between years and stands. During the survey, no cached seeds survived to geminate in the spring for both stands and years. (4) Mean dispersal distances of the cached seeds are much shorter in the high-seed year (3.1 m) than in the low-seed year (8.1 m) in the seed-rich stand, though similar trend is not examined in the seed-poor stand. Our results indicate that seed predation and dispersal of C. fargesii are influenced by both mast seeding and community-level seed abundance, which is not completely consistent with either the animal dispersal hypothesis or the predator satiation hypothesis, but seems more related to the predator satiation hypothesis.
20051029|The paper reports 15 years' monitoring of erosion rates of drift soil deposits, fluctuations in vegetation cover, effects of nutrient addition and the population dynamics of rare species from the Keen of Hamar's fellfield habitat. Normal successional models do not apply on the fellfield since closed vegetation cover is restricted to soils on glacial deposits that once removed cannot be reconstituted from the underlying ultramafic parent material. The successional processes that occur are so slow and on so small a scale that it is concluded that the fellfield plant communities are stable. Eutrophication related to agricultural activity led to a temporary increase in plant cover and loss of habitat for the rare species. The numbers of individuals of the rare species have fluctuated locally from year to year but during the time of the observations the populations were relatively stable over the entire site. This means that the rarities have migrated within the site and this has important implications for their conservation. It is concluded that the Keen debris has retained more of its primeval appearance and vegetation than perhaps any other inland lowland area in the British Isles.
41686745|The introduction of alien ungulates is a major threat for the survival of endangered plants, especially in island ecosystems. However, very few studies have investigated the potential damage of large herbivores on plant diversity in Mediterranean protected areas. In this study, we describe the population structure and the long-term dynamics of the main populations of the Sardinian narrow endemic Centaurea horrda Bad. (Asteraceae), by means of permanent plots where individual plants were tagged and monitored through 6 years (2004-2009). We monitored this endangered plant at three sites: two were protected areas where introduced and feral ungulates are present, and the other one was a non-protected site without introduced ungulates. We found that adults and saplings were more abundant at the non-protected site. Through matrix models, we also highlighted that the non-protected population showed the highest population growth rate. Finally, by means of an exclusion experiment for ungulates at one protected site, we demonstrated that herbivores had a negative effect on the survival of seedlings and adult plants, and reduced the stochastic population growth rate. An LTRE analysis showed that differences in the survival, especially of adult individuals, had the highest responsibility in explaining the higher population growth rate when herbivores are excluded. Our study constitutes a clear example on how the protection of alien large herbivores can have opposite effects on the conservation of an endangered plant. Some management options are proposed, and the urgent need of manipulative experiments on speciesspecific interactions between protected plants and alien herbivore species is invoked.
40212985|Epiphytic biomass, canopy humus and associated canopy water storage capacity are known to vary greatly between old-growth tropical montane cloud forests but for regenerating forests such data are virtually absent. The present study was conducted in an old- growth cloud forest and in a 30-year-old secondary forest (SF) on windexposed slopes in the Cordillera de Tilarn (Monteverde area) in northern Costa Rica. Epiphytic vegetation in both forests was dominated by bryophytes. Epiphyte mat weight (epiphyte biomass and canopy humus) at the stand level was 1,035 kg ha in the SF and 16,215 kg ha in the old-growth forest (OGF). The water contents of epiphytic bryophytes in the OGF were determined gravimetrically in situ and showed maximum values of 418%  74 (SD)% of dry weight and minimum values of 36%  10 (SD)%. Maximum stand water storage of non-vascular epiphytes and canopy humus at Monteverde was estimated at 0.36 mm for the SF and 4.95 mm for the OGF. Epiphytic bryophytes exhibited more dynamic wetting and drying cycles compared to canopy humus. Maximum water loss through evaporation was 251% of dry weight (bryophytes) and 117% of dry weight (canopy humus) within 3 days of sunny weather without precipitation. Despite the high potential water storage capacity of epiphytic bryophytes and canopy humus the actually available storage is likely to be much smaller depending on antecedent rainfall and evaporative conditions.
40305726|Small populations of many plant species have been shown to exhibit ecological Allee effects. These effects are expected to be pronounced in plants which are obligate outcrossers and rely on pollinators which forage preferentially in larger populations with greater nectar availability. We examined the breeding and pollination systems, level of pollen limitation and seed production in populations of a threatened "ornithophilous" species, Aloe pruinosa. Experimental hand-pollinations showed that A. pruinosa is genetically self-incompatible and thus an obligate outcrosser. Experimental exclusion of birds from inflorescences did not affect seed production, suggesting that insects are effective pollinators. Supplemental hand-pollinations in several populations showed that seed production in A. pruinosa is not pollen limited. Further, there were no significant relationships between population size and any measure of reproductive success in this Aloe species. Small populations of A. pruinosa are thus viable in terms of pollination processes and should be protected from more direct threats, such as habitat alteration.
20146839|Machair grassland uniquely occurs over sandy, calcareous soils of coastal sand-plains in dune systems of north-western Scotland and Ireland. This study assesses the plant species composition of Irish machair grassland at a landscape-scale. Machair sites were sampled with quadrats and multivariate analysis was used to assess relationships between species abundance, soil physical variables, livestock grazing and recreation activity. Grazing by cattle and sheep was recorded at most sites, with recreation activities at nearly half the sites. Detrended and Canonical Correspondence Analysis ordinations showed that the main gradients of community composition were related to the key variables of soil calcium carbonate content, soil organic matter content, livestock grazing intensity and recreation pressure. Partial Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that livestock grazing intensity and recreation pressure explained about twice as much variation as the key soil variables and that rabbit grazing had a much smaller but significant effect. Livestock grazing and recreation activities were shown to be ecologically damaging in terms of having a larger area of bare sand and a lower species diversity. Bare sand can increase the risk of storm damage and reduce habitat heterogeneity by sand-plain deflation. Controls on livestock density, the length of the grazing season and recreation activities are proposed, which we suggest would facilitate vegetation recovery. We highlight the need for local planning authorities, who control coastal development in Ireland, to include agricultural management prescriptions in their machair site management plans.
24553703|The effect of the adjacent non-forested environment on the forest near the edge, edge influence (EI), is an important impact in fragmented landscapes and is believed to vary with factors such as forest structure and edge contrast. In order to improve our understanding of the factors governing the variability in EI, we studied microclimate and vegetation at cerrado edges surrounded by variable land uses in southeastern Brazil, a system with both forest and savanna fragments. We determined the significance, magnitude and distance of EI on microclimate, vegetation structure and grass biomass which we measured along five transects perpendicular to fourteen edges in forest or savanna next to different land uses. We introduce a quantitative measure of edge contrast that considers land uses at different distances from the same edge (e.g., a firebreak between a forest edge and a plantation) and verified whether edge contrast is correlated with EI in this system. Notwithstanding the large variation in EI among variables and study sites, there were some similarities in the patterns of EI between forest and savanna edges. Edge contrast was successfully quantified by our measure but was only correlated with EI on moisture and grass biomass. Our results point to the high variability in EI within a region. Our quantitative measure of edge contrast may be useful in explaining variability in EI. However, much unexplained variation remains in the highly fragmented cerrado system which is affected by EI in both forest and savanna fragments.
20146417|The dynamics of a mature population of Hieracium pilosella under four different treatments ( irrigation,  fertiliser,  defoliation, and  fungicide & insecticide, in a full factorial design) were compared in the Mackenzie Basin, New Zealand. H. pilosella had been growing at the site for at least 30 years. Recorded variables included rosette density, inflorescence and stolon production, recruitment and mortality, and plant cover. The population appears to be regulated through density-dependent mortality interacting with density-independent reproduction. In the treated plots, irrigation and fertiliser had the greatest effects, increasing both the proportion of established rosettes producing stolons and stolon length. Irrigation also increased the likelihood of a daughter rosette becoming reproductive and decreased inflorescence abortion. Fertiliser increased the probability of an established rosette reproducing and the number of daughter rosettes produced. In unmanipulated plots H. pilosella appeared to be at or near an equilibrium density of ca. 3200 rosettes m, but over longer time scales the low reproductive rates shown in this study may presage slow population decline due to plant-induced environmental degradation.
40305490|Herbivores generally benefit from increased plant nitrogen content, because the nitrogen content of animals is much higher than that of plants. Consequently, high plant nitrogen alleviates the profound stoichiometric imbalance that herbivores face in their diets. Parasitic plants provide the opportunity to test this generalization for consumers across kingdoms. We fertilized two microhabitats in a California salt marsh that were dominated by Salicornia virginica or a mixture of S. virginica and Jaumea carnosa. The nitrogen content of both host plants and of the holoparasite Cuscuta salina (dodder) increased in fertilized plots in both micro-habitats. Cuscuta preferred to attack Jaumea, although Jaumea had lower nitrogen content than Salicornia. When host nitrogen content was altered by fertilizing plots, however, the percent cover of the parasite doubled. Although parasitic plants and their hosts have similar tissue nitrogen contents, suggesting no stoichiometric imbalance between host and consumer, parasitic plants do not feed on host tissue, but on host xylem and phloem, which are very low in nitrogen. Consequently, parasitic plants face the same dietary stoichiometric constraints as do herbivores, and both herbivores and holoparasitic plants may respond positively to increases in host nitrogen status.
20146469|In the Chane des Puys, a mid-elevation volcanic mountain of the French Massif Central, Scots pine proves to be an 'invasive' species colonizing abandoned lawns or heathlands, and forms in a few years monospecific natural forests. Most of the abandonment occurred 30 to 40 years ago and this process has now stopped. Thus, we lack data on the very first phase of tree colonization. We anticipate that a simulation tool could bring an appreciable help in (i) rebuilding the entire colonization process -- including the initial phase -- of pine settlement and (ii) answering questions about the origin of the narrow and unimodal distributions of age of pine stands we observed. In addition, such a simulator could help managers to forecast extension of Scots pine and to predict growth and evolution of present secondary forests. A spatially explicit individual-based model is presented. The model takes into account both space and time and includes growth of trees, seed production and seed dispersal, death and competition between individuals. The influence of the initial parameters are analyzed and elements of validation given. The model was then used to predict tree settlement and stand establishment using the initial conditions from a natural stand studied in the field whose characteristics before abandonment were known (number and age-distribution of trees, location of mother trees, time of abandonment). Three simulations were achieved by using the same initial conditions but following different scenarios for the recruitment process. The scenario of a fluctuating resistance of the resident vegetation (that controls the susceptibility of the environment to tree establishment) seemed as one of the most probable to explain the actual stand characteristics. We thus concluded that dynamic models could be improved by taking into account the resistance of the vegetation to colonization as a fluctuating parameter instead of a static and permanent attribute.
40540347|Human-mediated nutrient amendments have widespread effects on plant communities. One of the major consequences has been the loss of species diversity under increased nutrient inputs. The loss of species can be functional group dependent with certain functional groups being more prone to decline than others. We present results from the sixth year of a long-term fertilization and litter manipulation study in an old-field grassland. We measured plant tissue chemistry (C:N ratio) to understand the role of plant physiological responses in the increase or decline of functional groups under nutrient manipulations. Fertilized plots had significantly more total aboveground biomass and live biomass than unfertilized plots, which was largely due to greater productivity by exotic C grasses. We found that both fertilization and litter treatments affected plant species richness. Species richness was lower on plots that were fertilized or had litter intact; species losses were primarily from forbs and non-Poaceae graminoids. C grasses and forbs had lower C:N ratios under fertilization with forbs having marginally greater %N responses to fertilization than grasses.Tissue chemistry in the C grasses also varied depending on tissue type with reproductive tillers having higher C:N ratios than vegetative tillers. Although forbs had greater tissue chemistry responses to fertilization, they did not have a similar positive response in productivity and the number of forb species is decreasing on our experimental plots. Overall, differential nutrient uptake and use among functional groups influenced biomass production and species interactions, favoring exotic C grasses and leading to their dominance. These data suggest functional groups may differ in their responses to anthropogenic nutrient amendments, ultimately influencing plant community composition.
20146342|Riparian forests of the Altai Plain in China were studied using Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis (DCCA) and Two-way Indictor Species Analysis (TWINSPAN). The species could be divided into hydrophytes, hygrophytes, hygro-mesophytes, xero-mesophytes, xerophytes, and high xerophytes. River run-off, water table, and physical components of the soil decided the distribution of the species. The forests could be classified into wood swamp, hygro-mesic forest, mesic forest and xeric forest. As a specific habitat in the desert of northwest China, the river valleys harbored most of the Populus and Salix species recorded in China. However, the forest has been gradually invaded by adjacent desert species. Meanwhile, the native species diversity of the forest has been declining as the soil has become more saline and more xeric through intensive irrigation practice and dam construction in the upper rivers.
20050606|A model for the alkaline grassland ecosystems, MAGE, was applied to plant communities dominated by three species. Field observations on two communities dominated respectively by Puccinellia tenuiflora and Suaeda corniculata were used to parameterize the model for multiple species interaction. The model behaves reasonably in following the seasonal variations of water content, soluble sodium cation and calcium cation in surface soil, as well as biomass of the plant communities. Simulations were run to investigate the effects of ground water quality, ground water table depth, maximum non-capillary porosity in surface soil and harvest intensity, on ecosystem dynamics. The results indicated that ground water sodium concentration and ground water table depth had primary control on soil alkalization and vegetation status. The improvement of soil conditions by vegetation is limited to an extent with moderate ground water depth and sodium concentration. Non-capillary pores are critical for vegetation to affect the soil alkalization/de-alkalization process, but the effect of non-capillary pores tends to saturate when maximum non-capillary porosity is greater than 0.1.
40305499|We compared various aspects of the seed biology of eight non-pioneer tree species from a tropical seasonal rain forest in Xishuangbanna, SW China, that differ in time of dispersal, size and fresh seed moisture content (MC). Seeds were tested for germination under laboratory conditions after dehydration to different moisture levels and under 3.5, 10 and 30% solar irradiances in neutral-shade houses. For six species, germination was also compared in forest understory (3.5% light) and center of a forest gap (32.5% light). Under continuous dehydration over activated silica gel, 100% of seeds of four species had lost the ability to germinate after 48 h, and those of all species except Castanopsis hystrix (decreased from > 90 to 30% germination) had lost the ability to germinate after 120 h. Four species did not differ in final germination percentages at the three irradiances (i.e. uniform germination). However, final germination percentages of Horsfieldia pandurifolia and Litsea pierrei var. szemaois were significantly lower in 30% than in 10 or 3.5% light, and seeds of Antiaris toxicaria and C. hystrix germinated to higher percentages in 30 and 10% than in 3.5% light. Mean time to germination (MTG) of the eight species (forest and shade house data combined) ranged from 5-5 days for Pometia tomentosa to 72-207days for L. pierrei; MTG for four species was  21 days. There was no obvious relationship between relative desiccation resistance and either time of dispersal, MTG or uniformity of germination at the three light levels, or between seed size and MC or MTG. However, the relationship between seed MC at maturity (25-60% fresh mass basis) and MC at 50% loss of seed viability (12.4-42.5%) was significant. Seven of the species fit Garwood's (Ecol Monogr 53: 159-181, 1983) rapidrainy germination syndrome and one, L. pierrei, either her delayed-rainy or intermediate-dry germination syndrome. However, fresh, non-dehydrated seeds of all eight species germinated in  30 days at constant 30  C in light.
40305577|In order to find out if the inflorescences number variation has influences on the gender modification in plant species, we investigated the gender modification in a cultivated population of the monoecious species Sagittaria potamogetifolia. We also designed two nutrient levels to explore the impact of nutrient on gender modification in S. potamogetifolia. We found that the female and male flowers did not change with increasing plant size for each inflorescence at a low nutrient level. At a high nutrient level, the female flower numbers on each inflorescence did not increase with plant size; however, the male flower numbers had some positive correlation with the plant size. At the ramet level, the total male and female flower numbers increased with the plant size at both nutrient levels. The sex ratio (female to male flower ratio) decreased with the inflorescence numbers and the plant size (Midvein length). Although the nutrient variation had impact on the flower number production, it did not change the gender modification pattern. The high plasticity of inflorescence numbers, which caused the gender variation in S. potamogetifolia, and low plasticity of female and male flowers on a single inflorescence, indicates that the limited modification on gender in a single inflorescence may be compensated by inflorescence number variation at the ramet level.
20146588| This is a study of the colonization pattern of herbs and dwarf shrubs on rotten logs in subalpine spruce forests (Plagiothecio Piceetum) in the Tatra Mountains. On four study plots (total area 1.43 ha.) all dead logs were measured and the decomposition stage was estimated using the 8-degree scale. For each log the cover of all vascular species, bryophytes and lichens was determined according to the methods of classical phytosociology. Constancy and an index of coverage were calculated for all vascular species growing on logs. The total volume of logs was relatively high (93 m ha) and constituted 22% of the volume of living trees. Logs and stumps covered 411 m ha. These values are similar to those known from natural spruce forest from Carpathians and Scandinavia. The 8 stages of decomposition were equally represented, which indicates a constant supply of dead wood to the forest floor over time. The colonization of dead wood starts with lichens, followed by bryophytes and finally herbs and tree saplings. The first vascular plant colonists of dead logs appear at decay stage nr. 3 at least 20 years after tree death. The most suitable condition for most of the herb species corresponds to decay stage nr. 6 ca. 50 years after tree death. The herb cover is distinctively dominated by Vaccinium myrtillus. Simultaneously with herb species, tree seedlings colonize the logs. Constancy and abundance of Norway spruce saplings increases with advanced decomposition. It seems that the herb cover of logs does not hinder the regeneration of spruce. 
40606974|Community biomass production reflects species evenness (relative abundance), suggesting that particular adaptive/survival strategies contribute disproportionately to ecosystem processes. We hypothesized that diversity in the strategies of dominant species would be a better predictor of biomass production than species diversity per se. We compared species diversity, strategy diversity, peak biomass, soil and leaf nutrient status, and leaf area index (LAI) in situ for related sub-alpine plant communities differing only in the intensity of cattle grazing and manuring; with identical climatic exposure, slope, aspect and parent material. Greater total biomass was associated with greater strategy richness and evenness and, to a lesser extent, species evenness but species richness and aboveground biomass were not significantly different. Diversity in the adaptive strategies of dominant species allowed more effective deployment of canopy biomass (greater LAI), providing superior photosynthetic nutrient use efficiencies and greater total biomass despite lower nutrient status. This was reflected in species evenness, but not species richness.
40305442|The competitive interactions between woody seedlings and herbaceous vegetation have received increasing interest in recent years. However, little is known about the relative contributions and underlying mechanisms of above-and below-ground competition between species. We used a novel experimental approach to assess the responses of Fraxinus excelsior seedlings to different combinations of root and shoot competition imposed by the grass Dactylis glomerata under greenhouse conditions. Seedling growth was significantly reduced by competition for soil resources, but neither biomass nor height were significantly affected by shoot competition for light. Competitive response indices based on biomass confirmed that below-ground competition was more important than above-ground competition, and indicated that root and shoot competition did not interact to influence plant growth. Fraxinus biomass allocation and seedling traits were almost all significantly affected by root competition; these responses varied depending on the trait exam- ined. In contrast, morphological responses to shoot competition were limited. In the absence of root competition, seedlings showed a significant increase in the biomass allocated to leaves and a greater leaf area ratio in response to shoot competition. Our findings suggest that morphological modifications help to mitigate the negative effects of competition, but the expression of plasticity may be suboptimal due to resource constraints. The present study also highlights the importance of appropriate experimental controls and analysis to avoid confounding effects of experimental design and ontogeny on the interpretation of competitive responses.
20146463|Seed predation is an important factor in determining the rate of tree establishment in abandoned agricultural land. Edges, through altered habitat use by small mammals, may influence the spatial pattern of forest regeneration in these successional sites. To determine the spatial pattern of seed predation across a forest-old field edge, we used a grid that began 30 m inside the forest and extended 60 m into the old field. Seed stations were placed at regular 10-m intervals and were monitored for removal of Acer rubrum seed for 50 d. This design was repeated over four years (1995-1998). Small mammal trapping was conducted in the final year of the study to determine the spatial pattern of seed predators within the site. Removal rates varied among the four years of the study with years of high and low removal rates. However, the spatial pattern of seed removal rate was similar in all years. Final survival ranged from 0.7-15.5% of seeds, with lower final survival in years with faster rates of seed removal (1996 and 1998). Seed removal rates and rates of discovery were greatest at the forest edge and decreased with distance into the old field. The number of seeds surviving to the end of the experiment also varied across the edge gradient, with highest survival at greater distances into the old field in low predation years. Seed removal rate covaried with spatial pattern of Peromyscus leucopus captures within the site. Seed removal and discovery was also higher under the exotic shrub Rosa multiflora, which may have provided cover for foraging seed predators. These indirect effects of edges on plant communities can potentially alter the rate and spatial pattern of tree invasion into disturbed lands and illustrate the importance of understanding plant-animal interactions in the context of habitat fragmentation.
20050637|Starting in early spring of 1994, naturally regenerated, 30-year-old Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) trees were grown in open-top chambers and exposed in situ to doubled ambient O doubled ambient CO and a combination of O and CO from 15 April to 15 September. To investigate daily and seasonal responses of CO exchange to elevated O and CO, the CO exchange of shoots was measured continuously by an automatic system for measuring gas exchange during the course of one year (from 1 Januray to 31 December 1996). A process-based model of shoot photosynthesis was constructed to quantify modifications in the intrinsic capacity of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance by simulating the daily CO exchange data from the field. Results showed that on most days of the year the model simulated well the daily course of shoot photosynthesis. Elevated O significantly decreased photosynthetic capacity and stomatal conductance during the whole photosynthetic period. Elevated O also led to a delay in onset of photosynthetic recovery in early spring and an increase in the sensitivity of photosynthesis to environmental stress conditions. The combination of elevated O and CO had an effect on photosynthesis and stomatal conductance similar to that of elevated O alone, but significantly reduced the O-induced depression of photosynthesis. Elevated CO significantly increased the photosynthetic capacity of Scots pine during the main growing season but slightly decreased it in early spring and late autumn. The model calculation showed that, compared to the control treatment, elevated O alone and the combination of elevated O and CO decreased the annual total of net photosynthesis per unit leaf area by 55% and 38%, respectively. Elevated CO increased the annual total of net photosynthesis by 13%.
40305725|Undisturbed, highland wetlands in the northeastern USA are unique habitats which maintain ecological integrity in this region. These ecosystems may be threatened by a changing environment. To protect, restore, and create these wetlands, an understanding of the relationship between vegetation composition, environmental regime, and the underlying hydrogeomorphology is needed. Using a hydrogeomorphic (HGM) classification scheme, we analyzed the environmental regime and vegetation in groundwater and small-order, stream-fed wetlands in the Adirondacks and Catskills of New York, the Appalachians of Pennsylvania and of Virginia and West Virginia. The similarity of environmental regime and then species composition between wetlands across and within regions were analyzed using ordination and cluster analysis. Plant associations and distinguishing factors were determined. Within a region, wetlands with similar environmental regime or species composition were often grouped by HGM subclass. Beaver influence and groundwater sources may account for discrepancies between HGM and community composition. Similarly structured plant associations across regions included Acer/herbaceous wetlands, Acer/Fraxinus slopes, and Acer/Tsugal herbaceous wetlands. Plant associations were primarily distinguished by soils in the Adirondacks, soils and hydrology in the Catskills, spatial location and disturbance in Pennsylvania, and spatial location in Virginia. Regional differences and non-environmental drivers of species composition will modify generalized relationships between hydrogeomorphology, environmental regime, and species composition and should be accounted for in wetland design and management activities.
41429360|Both temporal and spatial scales are important in the evaluation of population dynamics, but the latter often receives less attention in demographic analyses. We used a 5-year demographic data set for a long-lived geophyte, Calochortus lyallii, to investigate the pattern and components of spatial variation at two scales (population and microsite). We found that neither the projected population structure nor asymptotic population growth rate () varied greatly across either scale, although the underlying contributors to the variation in , V(), did differ between scales. Life table response experiment analyses showed that V() among populations came primarily from variation in seedling survival and progression of non-reproductive plants, whereas V() among microsites was primarily due to the variable fertility of large adults. Prolonged dormancy was important in reducing V() among quadrats at both the scales, partly countering fluctuations in other transitions such as recruitment. This result represents some of the first evidence that underground "bulb banks" could function to offset the effects of a spatially heterogeneous environment in a manner analogous to seed banks. Future work is needed to isolate the specific, sometimes idiosyncratic, life history phenomena acting to modulate plant population dynamics in a spatial context.
41508828|Annual plants are common in disturbed habitats. It is frequently assumed that because these habitats often have low-plant density, competition is not important in shaping the ecological strategies of annual plants. We test for competitive strategies in genotypes of the short-lived annual plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Genotypes were grown in treatments with or without conspecific competitors. We measured size at reproduction and fitness (fruit production) at final development. We estimated competitive ability in each genotype at first reproduction (the ability to maintain size in the presence of competitors) and at final development (the ability to maintain fruit production in the presence of competitors). Genotypes showed relatively high competitive ability measured as fruit production at final development, but most genotypes had low competitive ability measured as size at reproduction. Our results suggest that competition has been important in the evolution of strategies in these genotypes but vegetative size is not a strong predictor of competitive ability. Rather, competitive ability is determined by the capacity to reproduce efficiently in the presence of competitors. The competitive strategies expressed across these genotypes suggest that competition has been a selective force in these plants, and that a fast life history is not equivalent to an "r-strategy."
40540339|We examined the effects of different life history strategies and tree competition on species coexistence in a northern coniferous forest. We investigated the growth and demography of trees with stems > 1 cm dbh in a 2-ha study plot in the Taisetsu Mountains of northern Japan. Three species, Abies sachalinensis, Picea jezoensis, and Picea glehnii, were found to be dominant in the forest.A. sachalinensis was the most dominant species in the understory, while the two Picea spp. were more abundant in the larger dbh size classes. The turnover rate of A. sachalinensis was about twice that of the Picea spp. The relative growth rate of understory trees in each species did not differ between different canopy conditions (closed canopy or canopy gap). The competitive advantage between A. sachalinensis and P. glehnii switched as they grew from understory (A. sachalinensis superior competitor) to canopy trees (P. glehnii superior competitor). Meanwhile, A. sachalinensis and P. jezoensis exhibited different environmental preferences. We propose that reversal in competitive superiority between different growth stages and trade-off between longevity and turnover are more important factors to promote their coexistence than regeneration niche differentiation related to canopy gaps in this sub-boreal coniferous forest.
20146837|Seabirds are chemical and physical engineers that are capable of transforming terrestrial vegetation by altering edaphic conditions, generating physical disturbance, and affecting seed dispersal. Substantial changes in seabird populations are occurring worldwide and are likely to have important consequences for plant community composition on islands and coastal areas. This review focuses on the impact of seabirds on plant biomass, species richness and community composition. A total of 57 publications (42 studies) were selected for review. Of the 42 studies represented in the publications, 55% were descriptive. Most studies took place in Australia, New Zealand, the British Isles, Japan, North America, and sub-Antarctic islands. A few studies showed that aboveground plant biomass in seabird colonies increased with sufficient rainfall and moderate temperatures. The majority of studies on plant species richness showed a decrease in seabird colonies compared to areas unaffected by birds. However, species richness was higher in areas of intermediate seabird disturbance, compared to undisturbed areas. Moreover, the effects of seabirds on species richness varied with respect to island size. Most studies of plant community composition indicated that annuals, 'ruderals", and cosmopolitan species increased in abundance in seabird colonies. Changes in plant communities in seabird colonies appear to result mainly from altered soil nutrient concentrations and pH, increased physical disturbance, and seed dispersal by seabirds and humans. However, few studies have rigorously studied the relative importance of these alterations. Both the direction and magnitude of seabird effects are modified by: (1) density of birds, (2) temperature and precipitation, and (3) proximity to human habitation. A reduction in seabird populations is likely to have negative consequences for native plant species that rely on seabird disturbance for their persistence. However, seed dispersal by nesting seabirds, especially gulls, frequently leads to invasion by cosmopolitan plant species and declines of native species. Further studies that incorporate both quantitative sampling and manipulative experiments would go a long way in improving our understanding of how seabirds affect plant communities.
40212912|The ability of weeds to form a seed bank is important for their population dynamics and management because it provides a refuge enabling reinvasion after established target plants have died. However, knowledge of the differential seed behaviour of individual species over multiple years and varying environmental conditions is surprisingly rare but necessary for effective control of diverse weed populations. We established a seed burial experiment in alpine habitats differing in management regime (i.e., forest, hay meadow and pasture) to determine whether seeds of the unpalatable perennial weeds, Veratrum album (white hellebore) and Gentiana lutea (yellow gentian) were able to delay germination and remain viable over 3 years. Our study shows that both species formed a short-term persistent seed bank; in the third-year, the soil seed banks of both species were nearly depleted, having declined to < 5% of their original size. Both species had strikingly different germination strategies: G. lutea seeds mainly germinated in their first-year, whilst the majority of V. album seeds germinated in their second-year. The fraction of dormant G. lutea seeds increased with seed age, indicating that seeds remained viable after forgoing germination in the previous year. Habitat-specific differences in seed germination increased with seed age, with germination fractions being lowest in moist hay meadows. This suggests that the negative effects of anoxic conditions became more pronounced as seeds aged in hay meadows. Conversely, seed dormancy was equal among habitats. The absence of a long-term persistent seed bank has important implications for the management of both nuisance and endangered-plant populations. In the case of V. album and G. lutea, re-colonization of habitats from the seed bank is unlikely after established plants have been removed.
20146725|In this experiment we investigate how chemical and physical attributes affect the grazing of 14 species of Hakea (Proteaceae) seedlings by western grey kangaroos (Macropus fuliginosus). Needle-leaved Hakeas were preferred over broad-leaved congeners, although differences between species within these groups were sometimes large. Needle-leaved species had smaller, thicker and spinier leaves with lower phenolic contents, but similar nitrogen contents (except for high levels in H. platysperma). The three tallest needle-leaved species, with longest, most upright and thickest leaves (H. adnata, H. obliqua and H. platysperma) were most preferred. Principal components analysis on attributes of the 14 species showed that the relative volume of shoot material consumed was significantly related (inversely) to phenolic content. Chemical defences therefore appear to have a significant deterrent role at this stage in the plant?s life history. Physical defences however were ineffective deterrents against kangaroo herbivory raising the possibility that other ecophysiological factors contribute to the possession of structures such as spines and sclerophylly in young seedlings.
20146484|Many populations of native Acacia raddiana trees in ephemeral riverbeds in the Negev desert are suffering from high mortality. Road-building techniques that cut off water to trees in downstream populations and the pumping of aquifers for agriculture have been mooted as causes of this mortality. We studied the water relations of nine isolated populations of these trees using a pressure chamber and stable carbon isotopes in order to determine whether current water stress could be the cause of this mortality. High mortality populations had more negative water potentials, lower relative water contents, and lower cell water volumes at full turgor than low mortality populations. Thus, mortality is correlated with current inter-population differences in water stress. However, there was no difference in water potentials between trees upstream and downstream of roads. Furthermore, greater water stress in trees after a dry winter than in the previous summer indicates that these trees are largely drawing on surface floods for water. Thus, road-building practices and aquifer pumping are unlikely causes of current water stress. Hence, water stress is linked to mortality in these trees, although our results indicate that irregular water stress (perhaps in drought years only) is probably the cause of this mortality.
20050474|Our objective was to classify upland sites sampled from an area in and around Elk Island National Park, Alberta, Canada, into community types and interpret them in terms of variation in environmental factors, including fire and wild ungulate herbivory. The vegetation from 36 sites was classified into 6 community types using TWINSPAN. These types could be effectively interpreted and explained with canonical correspondence analysis ordination procedures. Based on a forward regression, topography, ungulate use and prescribed burning related closely to the first two canonical axes, accounting for 47.2 and 21.1% of the species-environment relation among sites, respectively. Unique and meaningful combinations of environmental variables influenced community-type understory composition and structure, as well as the characteristics of the tree overstory. This information provided the basis for a preliminary state and transition model of vegetation dynamics for these rangelands, which could be used to assist Park managers in manipulating plant communities within the landscape using ungulate removal and prescribed burning programs.
40540358|Rhinanthus angustifolius and Rhinanthus minor are annual hemiparasitic herbs found in open vegetations. They are closely related, hybridize frequently, and appear to have largely overlapping niches, although some floras report a preference of R. angustifolius for more humid conditions compared to R. minor. We analysed the relative fitness of both species by following their fate from germination to seed production in three different hydric treatments (wet, moist and dry) in a garden experiment. We found that R. angustifolius was either as fit as or fitter than R. minor in all conditions and for all studied parameters, with a slightly higher flower production in R. angustifolius in the wet treatment. Wet conditions had a negative effect on germination and flowering rate, but they increased flower and seed production. These observations show that environmental conditions will influence the composition of mixed Rhinanthus populations.
20146865|Leymus chinensis (Trin.) Tzvelev and Phragmites communis Trin. are co-dominant grasses in both nutrient-poor and rich steppes in the Songnen Plains of northeastern China. A replacement series experiment was conducted along a five-level nutrient gradient to test for changes in the competitive relationships of the species with nutrient availability. There were significant effects of nutrient level and species proportion on mean plant height, biomass and rhizome length. Facilitation was found in these plant attributes for both species when grown in mixture compared with monoculture, especially at high nutrient levels. For example, L. chinensis grew taller and intercepted more light when in mixture. The aboveground dominance of P. communis did not decrease in mixture, possibly because it benefited from belowground interactions with L. chinensis. Biomass allocation was apparently influenced by both above and belowground competition. For example, L. chinensis allocated much more biomass to shoots and less to roots when neighbor number was increased, suggesting that aboveground competition occurred. Root: shoot ratios of L. chinensis in monoculture decreased gradually with increasing nutrient availability, whereas the ratio in mixture declined rapidly, implying intense competition for light at high levels. Our results support the hypothesis that nutrient competition is more important than light competition when soil nutrients are scarce. Although the interactions between these species benefit both, P. communis is more likely to displace L. chinensis at high nutrient availability.
41508732|The effect of herbivores on species richness is important for the conservation of protected areas under grazing management but research findings on this are far from consistent. The main objective of this study is to analyze how the cessation of grazing by goats affects the diversity parameters at different scales over a 5-year period. The study was conducted in the Teno Rural Park in the northwest corner of Tenerife, Canary Islands. The studied areas have been grazed by livestock since the beginning of the 16th century and currently are used by local farmers, mainly for extensive goat production. In these areas we selected four blocks and in each block four 100 m plots were established, two excluded from grazing (located in 12  12 m exclosures) and two control plots. The analyses showed an accumulation of species in the control plots significantly higher than in exclosure plots at small scales. Power function parameters such as c and z only showed differences in function for the sampling year and not for the treatment. Although the results showed an increase in species richness due to grazing, this is very small. However, negative effects in native species richness are not detected, so we suggest the promotion of goat grazing as a way to maintain land use, cultural values, and species richness in these pastures.
20050498|Three analyses of species diversity in a lowland dipterocarp forest were conducted to examine whether the nature of forest community dynamics are determined by density-dependent recruitment and mortality of saplings with a data set obtained in a 50 ha plot in Pasoh Forest Reserve. The first analysis examined whether sapling density varied as a function of distance from the nearest conspecific adult. The second analysis assessed the relationship between the spatial distribution patterns of saplings and adult trees. A third analysis examined sapling recruitment and mortality based on data from 2 censuses, taken in 1985 and 1990. Four hundred forty-four species (each with more than 100 individuals) out of the total of 814 species recorded in the plot, were chosen for the analyses. Of these selected species, 56 species showed significant reduction in sapling densities close to the conspecific adults. Within this group, 11 species were in the emergent layer (29.0% of the total species in this layer), 17 were in the canopy layer (10.5%), 18 were in the understory layer (11.3%), and 10 were in treelet and shrub layer (11.8%). In contrast, the sapling densities of 53 species decreased with increasing distance from conspecific adults; 2 of these species were in the emergent layer (5.2% of the total species in this layer), 14 were in the canopy layer (8.6%), 21 were in the understory layer (13.2%), and 16 were in the treelet and shrub layer (18.8%). The saplings of 35 of the 444 total selected species were clumped, while adults were regularly or randomly distributed. Of the remaining species, in 183 species (41.2%), the distributions of both adults and saplings were clumped. Thus, these 2 analyses do not support the prediction that most of the species of lowland tropical forests fail to produce new adults in their vicinity and as a result of this, adult trees are more regularly distributed than their conspecific juveniles (Janzen 1970). In the third analysis, the recruitment of saplings of species in the emergent and canopy layers increased significantly and in proportion with mortality, suggesting that the dominant species suffer higher mortality than do less common species. This trend is not so apparent in the understory, and the treelet and shrub layers. The results imply that a dynamic equilibrium process, which prevents competitive exclusion and maintains space for minor species, may be active among the species in the upper layers (particularly the emergent layer); however, such a dynamic equilibrium condition is not due exclusively to the reduced recruitment of saplings near conspecific adults, and the dynamic equilibrium condition is not prevalent among the lower story species.
40305563|We studied vegetation responses to disturbances originated by ants and voles in subalpine grasslands in the Eastern Pyrenees. We compared the effects of these small-scale disturbances with those of a large-scale disturbance caused by ploughing. We wanted to know if these soil disturbances promoted species richness through the existence of a specific guild of plants colonizing these areas, and if this guild was the same for all soil disturbances, independently of their extent. In general, grassland vegetation seemed to recover relatively quickly from soil-displacement disturbances, and the effects could be scaled up in time and space in terms of species richness and composition. Vole mound composition was similar to that in the surrounding grassland, suggesting that mounds were rapidly colonized by the neighbouring vegetation. Vegetation composition differed between the grassland and the ant mounds. Grasses and erect dicots coped well with repeated disturbance, while rosette-forming species and sedges were very sensitive to it. Landscape processes could be important to understanding recolonization. Species from xeric grasslands were found in mesic grasslands when disturbed by ploughing and on the tops of active ant mounds. Furrows in mesic grasslands recovered well, but decades after disturbance showed long persistence of some xeric species and increased species richness compared to terraces, while xeric grasslands showed decreased richness. This suggests that, because of those disturbances, within-habitat diversity was increased, although landscape diversity was not. However, specific disturbances showed idiosyncratic effects, which could enhance the species richness globally. In ant-affected areas, the grassland itself showed the highest plant species richness, partially associated to the presence of some species with elaiosomes not, or only rarely, found in adjacent grasslands without ant mounds. Therefore, soil disturbances occurring at different spatial scales contributed to complexity in vegetation patterns in addition to abiotic factors and grazing.
20146868|The higher vulnerability of islands to invasions compared to mainland areas has been partially attributed to a simplification of island communities, with lower levels of natural enemies and competitiors on niches for invaders to establish and proliferate. However, differences in invader life-history traits between populations have received less attention. We conducted a broad geographical analysis (i.e. 1050 km wide transect) of plant traits comparing insular and mainland populations to test the hypothesis that alien plants from insular populations have the potential for higher invasiveness than their alien mainland counterparts. For this purpose plants of the annual geophyte Oxalis pes-caprae were grown from bulbs collected in the Balearic islands and the Spanish mainland under common greenhouse conditions. There were no significant differences in bulb emergence and plant survival between descendants from insular and mainland populations. However, Oxalis descendants from insular populations produced 20% more bulbs without reducing allocation to bulb size, above-ground biomass or flowering than descendants from mainland populations. Based on the lack of sexual reproduction in Oxalis and the dependence of invasion on bulb production, our study suggests that the higher occurrence of Oxalis in the Balearic islands than in the Spanish mainland can partially be explained by genetically based higher propagation potential of insular populations compared to mainland populations.
23362519|Our objective was to examine the relative importance of local-scale disturbance by Siberian marmots in increasing regional (landscape-wide) plant richness. We used an additive diversity partitioning framework and quantified species richness patterns of grassland plant communities affected by marmot disturbance across different spatial scales: within and among on- and off-marmot-mound subsites, among sites, and among landscape units (corresponding to  and three levels of  richness). Values of  richness among subsites and  richness among landscape units were similar to those expected by chance. This suggests that plant species are randomly distributed among subsites and among landscape units, despite the prediction based on previous studies that local-scale disturbance by Siberian marmots and its interactive effects with landscape contexts disproportionately influence spatial patterns of plant species. Of the spatial components of regional richness, only the  richness among sites was significantly different from the expected value, probably reflecting the differential spatial pattern of disturbance by marmots at a site scale. The  richness among landscape units contributed the most to regional richness, whereas  richness among subsites and among sites contributed less. Thus, our results suggest that local-scale disturbance by Siberian marmots has little influence on regional plant richness in a Mongolian grassland.
20050575|Data on tree location and species in a portion of Northern Michigan were gathered from General Land Office (GLO) survey notes (ca. 1850), digitized, and generalized to represent forest types. Fuzzy membership values describing the degree of membership of each species in each forest type were derived from (a) semantic information in the forestry literature and (b) a fuzzy clustering routine applied to data from randomly placed circular plots. The fuzzy membership values assigned to each tree point for each forest type were interpolated to form continuous surfaces using kriging and co-kriging. Advantages of this method over traditional discrete mapping methods include: (a) multiple options are available for the display and analysis; (b) classification uncertainty and the continuity of natural vegetation can be represented; and (c) the classification scheme is applied systematically across the entire map area and can be altered to produce alternative maps. The subset of available display and analytical products presented include: discrete forest type maps; a surface representing the confusion between forest types; fuzzy logical overlays of forest types; and discrete class maps with color value altered within each class to indicate degree of confusion at each location.
40305638|We investigated changes in species composition and structure of tree and liana communities along a successional gradient in a seasonally dry tropical forest. There was a progressive increase in tree richness and all tree structural traits from early to late stages, as well as marked changes in tree species composition and dominance. This pattern is probably related to pasture management practices such as ploughing, which remove tree roots and preclude regeneration by resprouting. On the other hand, liana density decreased from intermediate to late stages, showing a negative correlation with tree density. The higher liana abundance in intermediate stage is probably due to a balanced availability of support and light availability, since these variables may show opposite trends during forest growth. Predicted succession models may represent extremes in a continuum of possible successional pathways strongly influenced by land use history, climate, soil type, and by the outcomes of tree-liana interactions.
40305560|We investigated the spatial cohort structure of Trillium populations in old-growth cove forests in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (TN, USA). We mapped the locations of all Trillium erectum L., Trillium grandiflorum (Michaux) Salisbury, and Trillium vaseyi Harbison occurring within two 10 x 10 m sample plots at each of three oldgrowth sitesAnthony Creek, Cove Mountain, and Kalanu Prong. The height and life stage of each individual were recorded and a randomly selected subset was excavated for age determination. Our results suggest that Trillium populations in cove forests of the southern Appalachians display a high degree of spatial aggregation and are relatively stable, spatially, over long time periods (i.e., decades). Individual patches (aggregations of plants) within populations were typically multi-aged and no clear spatial cohort structure was observed. Surprisingly, more isolated plants (distal from large aggregations) were among the oldest plants in the population, rather than recent colonists dispersing away from parent populations. Individual species were less mingled than expected given that they share a common dispersal agent (ants). This study provides a doublebaseline for Trillium population structure in old, primary forests with low browse pressure.
41508679|Understanding what factors generate geographic variation in species richness is a fundamental goal of ecology and biogeography. Water and energy are considered as the major environmental factors influencing large-scale patterns of species richness, but their roles vary among taxa and regions. Pteridophytes are an ideal group of organisms for examining the relationship between species richness and their environment because the distribution of pteridophytes is usually in equilibrium with contemporary climate to a greater degree than those of seed plants and most terrestrial vertebrates partly due to the lightness of their spores, which is highly capable of long-distance dispersal by wind, and partly due to their single-spore reproduction strategy. Using correlation and regression analyses and structural equation modeling technique, we examine the relationship of pteridophyte species richness in 151 localities from across China with environmental factors representing energy, water, and energy-water balance. We found that pteridophyte species richness is correlated to water availability more strongly than to ambient energy. Furthermore, we found that of all environmental variables considered, energy-water balance has played the most important role in regulating pteridophyte species richness gradients in China.
20050455|Sexual and vegetative reproduction in the alpine species Rhododendron ferrugineum was studied along a successional sequence (meadow  open heathland  closed heathland) at two sites and in a wet heathland. This study aims to determine (1) the characteristics of sexual reproduction in R. ferrugineum populations (2) when and how these populations develop layering (adventitious rooting) and (3) whether reproductive traits and reproductive strategies develop relative to the degree of population closure and maturity. The variables used to describe sexual reproduction were inflorescence density (per m of Rhododendron cover), number of flowers per inflorescence and per m of Rhododendron cover, and seeds production (per fruit and m of Rhododendron cover). Flowering and fruiting phenologies were also recorded. For describing clonal development, we investigated layering variables such as length and annual growth rate of prostrate stems, rooting occurence and ramet density. The results show that the direction toward which the clones extend is mainly determinated by the topography, and that layering steadily increases with increasing population closure and maturity. Reproductive potential of R. ferrugineum is enormous (0.4-2.4 million seeds
20146803|Elodea canadensis (indigenous) and Elodea muttallii (invasive) were grown in experimental tanks in monocultures and mixtures in two spatial patterns (aggregated or mixed) and two developmental stages (small or large plants of E. canadensis, and small plants of E. nuttallii). Competitive interactions between the two species were assessed by monitoring the area colonised by each species, the number of rootings and biomass after 10 weeks. In monocultures the growth of E. canadensis was significantly lower than that of E. nuttallii. In mixtures the number of rootings and biomass of E. canadensis were always significantly less than those of E. nuttallii. The tank surface area colonised by E. canadensis was always significantly less than that occupied by E. nuttallii, but it was higher in the aggregated treatment, where the colonisation of E. nuttallii was lower. Therefore both spatial pattern and developmental stage of an indigenous species (E. canadensis) may influence the outcome of competition with potential invaders (E. nuttallii).
40606965|Seed weight is a prominent life history trait of plants affecting dispersal, establishment, and survival. In alpine environments, the few studies investigating the effect of elevation on seed weight within species have mainly detected a decrease in seed weight with increasing elevation. This relationship is generally attributed to the adverse climate at high elevations. In order to test this hypothesis, we analyzed seed weight variation across altitudes (2,435-3,055 m a.s.l.) in two consecutive years that differed in weather conditions in the high-alpine cushion plant Eritrichium nanum. We found a significant reduction in seed weight with increasing elevation in both years, but in the growing season with more adverse weather conditions, the reduction was more substantial than in the more favorable year. We conclude that alpine plants may be able to produce well-developed seeds at low elevations in almost all years, independent of weather conditions, whereas reproduction through seeds is potentially limited to years of favorable weather at high elevation.
40305743|The amount of rowan saplings has increased considerably in urban forests in Finland. In this study, we investigated the effects of soil fertility on rowan abundance. Urban forests studied were more fertile than rural forests, and consequently included more rowans than reference areas. The abundance of rowan increased with increasing soil fertility in urban areas, being the highest at forest edges. Furthermore, rowan did not suffer from trampling, and the presence of other trees and saplings did not restrict its growth in relatively open urban forests. We conclude that the effects of urbanization, e. g., edge effects, and factors related to trampling (e. g., dog excrement), may increase forest soil fertility creating favorable conditions for rowan. To control the spread of rowan in urban forests, we recommend that open forest edges with a large number of broad-leaved trees should be avoided, and recreational use of forests should be guided to the maintained path network.
40212862|Habitat destruction can be classified into instantaneous destruction and continuous destruction by the different ways of human destroying habitat. Previous studies, however, always focused on instantaneous destruction. In this study, we develop a universal model, Multitime scale N-species model, to study and compare the responses of metapopulation dynamics to both kinds of habitat destruction. The model explores that: (1) under instantaneous habitat destruction, species extinction is determined by the proportion of habitat destruction (D) and the structure of metapopulation (q). When D>q, species will go extinct ranked from the best competitor to the worst. When D q, no species will go extinct, but the equilibrium abundances of even-ranked competitors will decrease, and the equilibrium abundances of even-ranked competitors will increase; (2) under continuous destruction, species extinction is dependent on the speed of habitat destruction and the metapopulation structure. The higher the speed of habitat destruction and the bigger q are, the earlier species go extinct. Usually, there are two possible mechanisms of species extinction: one is that all species go extinct collectively following complete destruction, and the other is that species go extinct in ranked competitive order from best to worst, and the survivals, if they exist, will go extinct collectively following complete destruction. The oscillation amplitudes of inferior competitors are so large as to increase the probability of stochastic extinction under instantaneous destruction. Therefore, it is relatively propitious for the persistence of rare species under slow and continuous destruction, especially when continuous destruction stops.
20051341|This study deals with the geographical distribution of Eupatorieae species in South-eastern and Southern Brazilian mountain ranges, with special emphasis on the Mantiqueira range (Serra da Mantiqueira). In the Mantiqueira range, five localities were sampled for two years during the flowering period of the plants. Species composition in the Mantiqueira localities was then compared to data from a central range (the Espinhao) and a southern coastal range. Cluster and ordination analyses showed clear floristic differences among the three ranges. Nearer localities were more similar floristically only within the Espinhao range and across all ranges, as shown by Mantel tests. The dendrogram in the Mantiqueira range clustered Itatiaia and Campos do Jordo, two non-adjacent localities with similar environment, landscape and topography. Different processes may be influencing the structure and composition of the Eupatorieae flora at different geographical scales. Historical and biogeographical processes may be more important in determining community composition of different mountain ranges, whereas factors such as climate and human impact may be determining differences among localities within each mountain range.
20051032|The relative densities of arboreal species of 17 surveys carried out in the Atlantic Ombrophilous Dense Forest of So Paulo state, SE Brazil, were compared by means of multivariate analysis (cluster, TWINSPAN, PCA, DCA and CCA) to assess floristic and structural variation. The arboreal flora of this vegetation formation is heterogeneous: out of the 771 specific binomials cited, 478 were recorded only once. As the results were similar whether these 478 species were included or not, they were therefore excluded from subsequent analyses. The cluster analysis and TWINSPAN recognised two floristic-structural groups: Coastal Province and Atlantic Plateau. The DCA resulted in a gradient related to distance from the sea, from the Coastal Province towards the Atlantic Plateau ( = 0.6944). The CCA confirmed this separation on the first axis ( = 0.6944; 12.7% of total variance; p &lt 0.01) and showed this gradient to be associated with altitude and latitude on one hand and temperature and precipitation on the other. The influence of latitude and longitude was weak. Although surveys used different criteria, only the minimum individual size adopted in sampling showed a weak influence on the second axis on the CCA ( = 0.4437; 8% of total variance), and sampling method showed no influence. A positive relationship between geographical distance and floristic-structural dissimilarity was detected by the Mantel test (
20146739| We studied five reproductive attributes (fruit production and volume, seed content and weight, and seed germination) of different populations of Campanula species occurring along the elevation gradient of Mt Olympos, the highest mountain of Greece (2917 m), in order to examine whether and how they change with elevation, and if there are trade-offs among them. We also studied flower and fruit (reproductive) losses and population features in order to estimate whether there might be a threat to the survival of Campanula species on Mt Olympos. The genus is represented by nine species, ranging from cosmopolitan to stenoendemic. All species were found non-autogamous, and hence they depend on pollinators for their sexual reproduction. At the genus level, there is a trade-off between seed content per fruit and seed weight. At the species level, this is manifested only for C. glomerata, which produces the heaviest seeds, far exceeding all other species, and for C. spatulata, represented on Mt Olympos by two elevation distinct subspecies. Changes of the reproductive attributes are not continuous all along the elevation gradient at the genus level nor are they monotonic at the species level. Nevertheless, upland Campanula populations (1500 m) produce fewer fruits per individual, containing fewer but heavier seeds than lowland populations. This indicates a transition from 'r' to 'K' strategies, from low to high elevations, respectively. The patterns of change of reproductive attributes indicate prevalence of phylogenetic over environmental constraints. Laboratory tests showed that for many populations germinability is high at 15 C, but there are both inter- and intraspecific differences regarding temperature optima. Ecotypic variation among populations of the same species at different elevations was evident; populations from higher elevations had lower optima and vice versa. Reproductive losses, ranging from zero to over 90%, occurred mainly at the stage of fruit maturation; grazing by sheep and goats was the usual cause. Though such losses might affect the short-lived species (the annual C. sparsa and the biennial C. lingulata), which depend entirely on fruit maturation and seed dispersal for their reproduction, there does not seem to be a serious threat to the survival of Campanula species on the mountain. 
20146998| The cycad Ceratozamia mirandae is endemic to Chiapas, Mexico. Demographic studies were made in two of its populations in the Sepultura Biosphere Reserve under different conservation conditions; in the nucleus zone "Tres Picos" (conserved) and buffer zone "La Sombra" (disturbed and under management). Spatial distribution of C. mirandae was aggregated, showed a clumped local distribution on shallow soils on steep slopes and male and female cones appear to be synchronous in both populations. The population structure was of type I (Bongers) for both sites. Individuals between the sites showed differences in growth pattern. The oldest plants (80-90 cm tall) were estimated to be about 490 years at "La Sombra". The finite growth rate () in the buffer zone population showed a tendency for decrease whilst in the nucleus zone this estimate remained stable. The highest elasticity values lied in the transition of the first three classes of the "La Sombra" population, in "Tres Picos" this corresponded to adult plants between 20 and 30 cm tall. Given the above, it is proposed that in the nucleus zone, reproductive adults should be of highest conservation priority, whereas in the buffer zone seedling reintroduction should be carried out regularly until the population increases. We recommend an IUCN Red List category of Vulnerable (VU C, 2a), largely due to difficult-to-control destructive annual forest fires that occur in this Reserve. 
20050708|The species composition and diversity of the ground flora (vascular plants less than one meter in height excluding tree seedlings) were compared between sixteen mesic northeast-facing and sixteen dry southwest-facing middle slopes in southeastern Ohio. On each aspect, eight of the plots were located in second-growth forest stands (70 to 90 years in age) and eight of the plots were located in old-growth forest stands (greater than 150 years in age) in order to determine how the ground flora on opposing slopes varies with time since major disturbance. Physiographic and A horizon characteristics were measured to select comparable plots. Multi-response permutation procedures (MRPP) detected significant differences in the ground-flora species composition of second-growth and old-growth plots on both northeast-facing and southwest-facing slopes. In addition, the ground-flora species composition of northeast-facing plots differed significantly from that of southwest-facing plots. Northeast-facing plots were significantly higher in species richness and Hill's diversity (N1) than southwest-facing plots. Northeast-facing second-growth plots were also significantly higher in species richness and Hill's diversity than northeast-facing old-growth plots. No significant differences in these measures were found between southwest-facing second-growth and old-growth forests plots. Twenty-one species were identified as potential indicators of age, based on their distribution across the plots. Certain species with similar ecological characteristics were found to have similar patterns of occurrence. Further research is needed to determine the extent to which differences in the ground flora of second-growth old-growth reflect the sensitivity of individual species to past disturbance.
20051225|140 taxa of 61 genera in 24 families of pteridophytes were recorded on the southern slopes of Mt. Kilimanjaro. These represent about one third of the entire pteridophyte flora of Tanzania. The families richest in species are the Aspleniaceae, the Adiantaceae, the Dryopteridaceae, the Thelypteridaceae and the Hymenophyllaceae. Due to its luxuriant montane rain forest, which receives a precipitation of up to over 3000 mm, Mt. Kilimanjaro is distinctly richer in pteridophyte species than other volcanoes in East Africa. However, compared with the mountains of the Eastern Arc, the number of pteridophytes on Mt. Kilimanjaro is smaller. This can be explained by the widely destroyed submontane (intermediate) forest rather than by the higher age of the Eastern Arc Mts. The altitudinal distribution of all ferns was investigated in 24 transects. On the southern slopes of Mt. Kilimanjaro they were found in an altitudinal range of 3640 m. Cyclosorus quadrangularis, Azolla nilotica, Azolla africana and Marsilea minuta are restricted to the foothills, while Polystichum wilsonii, Cystopteris nivalis and Asplenium adiantum-nigrum are species found in the highest altitudes. Based on unidimensionally constrained clustering and on the analysis of the lowermost and uppermost occurrence of species, floristic discontinuities within the transects were determined. From these data and from an evaluation of the distribution of ecological groups and life forms, 11 altitudinal zones could be distinguished: a colline zone (-900 m asl), a submontane zone (900-1600 m asl) with lower and upper subzones, a montane zone (1600-2800 m asl) divided into 4 subzones, a subalpine zone (2800-3900 m asl) with lower, middle and upper subzones, and finally a (lower) alpine zone above 3900 m. The highest species numbers were observed in the lower montane forest belt between 1600 and 2000 m altitude. The zonation of ferns found at Mt. Kilimanjaro corresponds well with the vegetational zonation described by other authors using bryophytes as indicators in different parts of the humid tropics.
40666614|Over the past decade, there has been a rapid increase in the numbers of research manuscripts from China published in international English language journals with a focus on plant ecology. This reflects the growing numbers of research and research-training institutions, the improved capacity of Chinese researchers to communicate their findings in English, and an expansion of international research collaborations. These trends may be partly attributable to more outward-looking government policies that recognize the broader economic, environmental and cultural values of international engagement, and policies that encourage talented scientists to stay in, or return to China, as well as the raised scientific prestige associated with publication of research in highly ranked international journals. With this increased international perspective, Chinese researchers are benefiting from greater access to plant ecological research in other parts of the world, while researchers from other parts of the world are discovering more about the plant ecology of China. Publication statistics suggest a trend of continued momentum from researchers in China to contribute to international journals related to plant ecology.
41508672|Rainfall is the key driver of woody cover and life-history attributes in arid grassy biomes where disturbance is mostly rare and of low intensity. However, relatively little is known about the causes of woody community assembly in arid systems that are subject to periodic intense fire disturbance. In the central Australian desert region, grassland and shrubland fire can occur following above average rainfall. Patterns of species regeneration response (resprouting vs. reseeding) are poorly documented in this region. We tested the effects of rainfall and fire on species' resprouting response across the latitudinal rainfall-fire gradient using constrained ordination of 385 sites and general linear models. A resprouting response was significantly greater in grassland habitat as well as at the high end of the rainfall-fire gradient. The frequency of epicormic stem resprouting also increased along the rainfall-fire gradient. We attribute this pattern to the combined effects of frequent fire and rapid gap closure on seedlings of slow-growing, fire-killed woody species in higher rainfall grasslands. In addition, we also demonstrated that rapidly maturing fire-recruiting species are similarly favoured by high fire disturbance. In arid grassy ecosystems, unlike in mesic savanna, flammable grassland supports a mix of resprouting and recruitment functional types, and habitat membership cannot be predicted by resprouting capacity. Regions, such as central Australia, that are characterised by grassland-shrubland mosaics of high and low fuel biomass, respectively, pose specific challenges to fire ecology research that are possibly best dealt with by focussing modelling at the habitat scale.
23362425|Most grassland communities in agricultural landscapes comprise a mix of exotic and native plants, where grasses and forbs are disposed in low diversity patches conforming a heterogeneous matrix of vegetation. Within these "novel" ecosystems, woody encroachment is one of the principal causes of ecosystem degradation. Here, we examined the resistance to exotic woody establishment (Gleditsia triacanthos) into four different monospecific patches characteristics of old-field grasslands in Inland Pampa: an annual forb (Conium maculatum), an annual grass (Lolium multiflorum), and two perennial grasses (Cynodon dactylon and Festuca arundinacea). We evaluated the filter to tree recruitment by rodent seed removal and survival and growth of Gleditsia seedlings transplanted into undisturbed and disturbed microsites, within each patch. Beneath intact vegetation seed removal was an important biotic filter to woody establishment whereas disturbances facilitated seed survival in patches of perennial grasses. Patch identity affected tree growth, and Cynodon reduced the final biomass compared to forbs. Disturbance enhanced tree performance independently of patch type. After 2 years, tree survival was independent of disturbance and patch identity. As patch identity may regulate granivory and growth of tree saplings, community susceptibility or resistance to woody invasion rather than representing a static community attribute could vary according to the dynamic changes in the proportion of susceptible-resistant patches. Broadly, our work reinforces the concept that mechanisms regulating vegetation heterogeneity add a component of stochasticity to biotic resistance to community plant invasion.
20050448|The epiphytic vegetation on 19 pollarded trees of Fraxinus excelsior at the farm Havr, Ostery, western Norway was investigated. Each trunk was divided into a basal zone, a middle zone and a top zone. In each zone the four different aspects were analysed by squares (12 sampling units from each trunk). Within a total of 225 sampling units, 173 taxa were recorded (84 lichens, 72 bryophytes, 17 vascular plants). The epiphytic vegetation was classified into seven TWINSPAN groups, and it is shown by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) that these groups are mainly separated by the first two DCA axes. In an attempt to explain the floristic composition, several environmental variables were measured, and the floristic and environmental data were analysed by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). A pollarded tree, depending on its age, represents a continuum of perhaps several hundred years. Some of the recorded epiphytic lichens are very rare in Norway, and the pollarded trees thus contribute greatly to the biodiversity of the old cultural landscape. Several epiphytic species take advantage of favourable light conditions on trunks in the open fields. At Havr, woodland has developed by tree colonization of old meadows and open fields during the last 40 years after the cessation of earlier managements. Some floristic differences between the epiphytic vegetation on trunks in the open fields and in the woodland are found. This suggests a change in the epiphytic vegetation because of the creation of a more shady habitat in parts of the area during a few decades.
20051076|The morphology, size and characteristics of the pollen of the plant species Antarctic hairgrass (Deschampsia antarctica, Poaceae) and Antarctic pearlwort (Colobanthus quitensis, Caryophyllaceae) are described by scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. Based on the number of pores the pollen of Colobanthus quitensis is classified as periporate or polypantorate, while that of Deschampsia antarctica is monoporate. Pollen of Vicia faba plants, exposed to enhanced UV-B (10.6 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\ \text{day}^{-1}\text{UV}-\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math>) in a greenhouse, showed an increased content of UV-B absorbing compounds. There was also an increase of UV-B absorbing compounds in response to exposure to UV-A. By sequential chemical extraction three 'compartments' of UV-B absorbance of pollen can be distinguished: a cytoplasmic fraction consisting of, e.g., flavonoids (acid-methanol extractable), a wall-bound fraction, consisting of, e.g., ferulic acid (NaOH extractable) and aromatic groups in the bioresistant polymer sporopollenin possibly consisting of, e.g., para-coumaric acid monomers (fraction remaining after acetolysis). The sporopollenin fraction in the pollen of Helleborus foetidus showed considerable UV-B absorbance (280-320 nm). There is evidence that enhanced solar UV-B induces increased UV-B absorbance (of sporopollenin) in pollen and spores of mosses, which may be preserved in the fossil record. As there are no instrumental records of solar UV-B in the Antarctic before 1970 and no instrumental records of stratospheric ozone over the Antarctic before 1957, the use of UV-B absorbing polyphenolics in pollen (and spores) as bio-indicator, or proxy of solar UV-B, may allow reconstruction of pre-ozone hole and subrecent UV-B and stratospheric ozone levels. Pollen and spores from herbarium specimens and from frozen moss banks (about 5000-10 000 years old) in the Antarctic may, therefore, represent a valuable archive of historical UV-B levels.
40540373|The snow cover extent is an important factor for the structure and composition of arctic and alpine tundra communities. Over the last few decades, snowmelt in many arctic and alpine regions has advanced, causing the growing season to start earlier and last longer. In a field experiment in subarctic tundra in Interior Alaska, I manipulated the timing of snowmelt and measured the response in mortality, phenology, growth, and reproduction of the eight dominant plant species. I then tested whether the phenological development of these species was controlled by snowmelt date or by temperature (in particular growing degree days, GDD). In order to expand our understanding of plant sensitivity to snowmelt timing, I explored whether the response patterns can be generalized with regard to the temporal niche of each species. Differences in the phenology between treatments were only found for the first stages of the phenological development (= phenophases). The earlier the temporal niche (i.e., the sooner after snowmelt a species develops) the more its phenology was sensitive to snowmelt. Later phenophases were mostly controlled by GDD, especially in late-developing species. In no species did an earlier snowmelt and a longer growing season directly enhance plant fitness or fecundity, in spite of the changes in the timing of plant development. In conclusion, the temporal niche of a species' phenological development could be a predictor of its response to snowmelt timing. However, only the first phenophases were susceptible to changes in snowmelt, and no short-term effects on plant fitness were found.
20051092|Seedlings of Ceratonia siliqua L. were grown for 1 year in the field under ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation (corresponding to 15% ozone depletion over Patras) and received two levels of additional irrigation during the summer dry period. The experiment was started during February 1998 and two major samplings were performed, the first at the end of the dry period (September 1998) and the second at the end of the experiment (January 1999). Plants receiving additional irrigation showed significantly higher leaf number, plant height and chlorophyll content at the end of the summer, but these differences were abolished at the final harvest. Plants growing under enhanced UV-B radiation had significantly fewer leaves and less nitrogen content at the end of the dry period, but these effects were also abolished at the final harvest, during which significant UV-B induced increases in stem dry mass were observed. None of the other measured parameters (mean leaf area, leaf dry mass, leaf thickness, UV-B absorbing compounds, phenolics, tannins and photochemical efficiency of PSII) were affected by either treatment. Combined UV-B / water effects were not significant. We may conclude that although some minor responses to enhanced UV-B radiation were evident, C. siliqua is resistant against UV-B radiation damage at the level applied.
20051096|The charophycean algal species Chara aspera was exposed for 73 days to three levels of UV-B radiation (weighted according to Caldwell's generalized plant action spectrum): 1.9 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\ \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> ('no UV-B'), 6.4 KJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\ \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (ambient) and 10.5 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\ \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (enhanced UV-B), the latter level simulating 30% ozone reduction in The Netherlands. Charophycean algae are mainly freshwater organisms and are thought to be the algae most closely related to higher land plants. Therefore we expected that responses of charophycean algae to UV-B radiation might be more related to those observed in the higher land plants than those of other 'lower' algal groups. Under elevated UV-B radiation algal length was reduced. There was no induction of UV absorbing compounds under enhanced UV-B. This might relate to a sensitive response to UV-B radiation. The charophycean algae show similar adaptations to UV-B radiation as terrestrial plants, while not having UV-screens as occur in many angiosperms. Vegetative reproduction (bulbils) increased in the presence of UV-B radiation, while generative reproduction (antheridia and oogonia) decreased.
20051137|The use of statistics of landscape pattern to infer ecological process at ecotones requires knowledge of the specific sensitivities of statistics to ecotone characteristics. In this study, sets of patch-based and boundary-based statistics were evaluated to assess their suitability as measures of abruptness on simulated ecotone landscapes. We generated 50 realizations each for 25 groups of ecotones that varied systematically in their degree of abruptness and patchiness. Factorial ANOVA was used to evaluate the sensitivity of statistics to the known differences among the simulated groups. Suitability of each index for measuring abruptness was evaluated using the ANOVA results. The statistics were then ranked in order of their suitability as abruptness statistics based on their sensitivity to abruptness, the consistency of the relationship, and their lack of sensitivity to patchiness. The two best statistics for quantifying abruptness were those we developed based on lattice delineation methods, and are called cumulative boundary elements and boundary element dispersion. The results of this research provide support for studies of ecotone process that rely on the interpretation of patch or boundary statistics.
20051087|The effects of enhanced UV-B are often overestimated in greenhouse studies due to low levels of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). For this reason, we studied effects of enhanced UV-B (12 kJ <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\ \text{d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) at low and near ambient PAR levels on young vegetative plants of Vicia faba, in the greenhouse. It was hypothesized that near ambient PAR levels could reduce the negative UV-B effects on growth, due to higher amounts of UV-B absorbing compounds in the leaves and to morphological changes attenuating UV-B damage. We found that effects of enhanced UV-B on the growth were not negative. We found an increase in biomass in response to enhanced UV-B at low and near ambient PAR levels. The increase in biomass was related to increased branching, which leads to a higher interception of PAR. Enhanced irradiance of both PAR and UV-B had similar photomorphogenic effects: thicker and smaller leaves and reduced plant height and internode length. Moreover, the concentration of UV-B absorbing compounds was increased. We conclude that in this study effects of enhanced UV-B were mainly photomorphogenic effects, which were also induced by radiation in the PAR region.
40305581|We investigated the sex morphs and frequency of females in 24 natural populations of the clonal, gynodioecious species Glechoma longituba. In addition to the presence of hermaphrodites and females, there were some individuals with intermediate sex expression that could not be categorized as either morph. The majority of populations contained a predominance of hermaphrodites, although female frequency varied from 0 to 100%. The sexual expression of individual ramets did not change over three consecutive years or when ramets were transplanted to different populations, but it did change over the course of a flowering season. Seeds from females weighed more than those from hermaphrodites. The seed set of hermaphrodites was relatively constant across populations; the seed set of females was higher than that of hermaphrodites in most populations, but lower in populations in which females occurred at a very high frequency because of pollen limitation. This led to a negative correlation being detected between the seed set of females and the frequency of females in a population. We postulated that the adjustment of sex expression within seasons could be an adaptive mechanism of reproductive assurance in this system.
41429358|Comparisons of introduced exotics that invade and those that do not can yield important insights into the ecology of invasions. Centaurea solstitialis, calcitrapa, and sulphurea are closely related, share a similar life history and were each introduced to western North America from Southern Europe ~ 100-200 years ago. However, of these three species, only solstitialis has become invasive. We collected seeds from different populations for each of the three species both in the native range of Spain and the non-native range of California, measured individual seed mass, and grew plants from these seeds in a greenhouse experiment in Montana. The invasive solstitialis had the smallest seeds and seedlings of the three congeners. However, in contrast to its noninvasive congeners, solstitialis had the highest relative growth rates when grown in competition. C. solstitialis was also the only species to show significant differences in traits between populations from different ranges, with plants from the non-native range of California demonstrating greater competitive resistance, larger seed size, and larger seedling mass than plants from the native range in Spain. This suggests that C. solstitialis may be evolving toward larger seed and seedling sizes in this non-native range. Relative growth rate showed no inter-regional variation for any species, but was higher for C. solstitialis than its congeners when in competition, and thus may interact with the evolution of larger seeds and plant mass in ways that contribute to the extraordinary invasive success of this species.
20050573|Long-term (1985-1992) dynamics and spatial variations in soil water below the evaporative zone were evaluated for a shortgrass steppe with a low and variable precipitation regime. Each of a sandy loam, clay loam, and two sandy clay loam sites comprised a toposequence with upland, midslope and lowland positions. Soil water was monitored at 15 cm intervals providing estimates covering 22.5 to 97.5 cm depths. Soil water throughout the profile was highest in the clay loam site and lowest in the sandy loam site. However, stored soil water did not vary systematically among slope positions. Total vegetation cover was highest on the lowland in two sites, but was greatest on the midslope position in the other two. Total vegetation cover was greatest on the CL site, which was the wettest in terms of soil water. Soil water depletion was related to the depth-distribution of roots. There was an inverse relationship between aboveground production and soil water content of the 30, 45 and 60 cm layers during the growth period. Root distributions through the profile did not, however, vary with soil texture or with different soil water profiles controlled by texture. The less variable water content of deeper soil layers is a resource which potentially buffers the impact of pronounced variability in precipitation and thus contributes to vegetation stability of the shortgrass community.
40305546|Niche-based and neutral models of community structure posit distinct mechanisms underlying patterns in community structure; correlation between species' distributions and habitat factors points to niche assembly while spatial pattern independent of habitat suggests neutral assembly via dispersal limitation. The challenge is to disentangle the relative contributions when both processes are operating, and to determine the scales at which each is important. We sampled shoreline plant communities on an island in Lake Michigan, varying the extent and the grain of sampling, and used both distance-based correlation methods and variance partitioning to quantify the proportion of the variation in plant species composition that was attributable to habitat factors and to spatial configuration independent of habitat. Our results were highly scale dependent. We found no distance decay of plant community similarity at the island scale (133 km). All of the explained variation (32%) in species composition among samples at this scale was attributed to habitat factors. However, at a site intensively sampled at a smaller scale (51,200 m), similarity of species composition did decay with distance. Using a coarse sampling grain (transects), habitat factors explained 40% of the variation, but the purely spatial component explained a comparable 22%. Analyzing plots within transects revealed variation in species composition that was still jointly determined by habitat and spatial factors (18 and 11% of the variance, respectively). For both grain sizes, most of the habitat component was spatially structured, reflecting an abrupt alongshore transition from sandy dunes to cobble beach. Space per se explained more variation in species composition at a second site where the habitat transition was more gradual; here, habitat acted as a less selective filter, allowing the signal of dispersal limitation to be detected more readily. We conclude that both adaptation to specific habitat factors and habitat-independent spatial position indicative of dispersal limitation determine plant species composition in this system. Our results support the prediction that dispersal limitationa potentially, but not necessarily, neutral driver is relatively more important at smaller scales.
23267474|As with many invasive plant species, little is known of the population spatial patterns and stand dynamics of Lantana camara L. (Verbenaceae)a thicket-forming weed of worldwide significance in managed and conservation lands, including coastal and inland habitats of Eastern Australia. Consequently, we mapped and followed annually for 3 years the demographic fate of more than 2000 Lantana individuals at sites with four land-uses (hoop pine plantation, cattle farm, and two eucalyptus forests with occasional grazing and periodic burning regime, respectively) in Queensland, SE Australia. Populations exhibited plant size distributions that were continuous (i.e., of L or symmetric type) and unimodal, except the farm population where bimodality was observed. Newly established plants could be reproductive within one growing season at 50 cm in height, especially where environmental resources were not limiting. Density had an appreciable effect on the weed's reproductive capacity and growth, but not on survival. Established and newly recruited individuals were aggregated but the degree of aggregation decreased with plant size. However, in the sites that had experienced burning or mechanical clearing, Lantana seedling/juvenile recruitment assumed negative association (spatial displacement) in relation to established individuals. The findings of this study agree with the notion that ecological processes often leave characteristic spatial signatures, which if interpreted using appropriate hypotheses can help to ascertain factors responsible for the observed spatial patterns and stand dynamics.
41429366|Wetland restoration is a pressing conservation priority, but there are few replicated field studies that provide a scientific foundation for these activities. We conducted a 3-year, replicated field experiment to examine the effectiveness of initial site preparation techniques (combinations of solarization, herbicide, tilling, and thermal weed control) in restoring native plant biodiversity to an agricultural field in a former wetland prairie in Oregon, USA. Posttreatment, plots were sown with a typical restoration mix of native graminoids and forbs. Treatments were compared to three high-quality managed reference wetlands and the adjacent agricultural field. Site preparation treatments varied in their effectiveness in suppressing extant vegetation and eliminating the residual seed bank. After 1 year, the solarization and fall herbicide application treatments were the most effective at reducing exotic cover. However, after 3 years, plant community composition converged in all treatments due to a loss of annual species and increasing dominance of native perennial bunchgrasses. Plant community composition became more similar to the reference wetlands each year, but diversity and richness diverged, apparently due to a trade-off between the cover of the dominant native bunchgrasses and diversity. Successional theory offers insights into how priority effects and competitive inhibition may influence community trajectories, and offers a useful model for restoring plant communities with high native diversity and dominance. Finding ways to mitigate the tradeoff between native plant cover and diversity by actively managing successional trajectories is an important challenge in wetland restoration that deserves further investigation.
23362423|It is widely suggested that climate warming will increase the impact of biological invasions, yet, to date studies on the combined effect of these two global changes are scarce. Here, we study how climate warming and associated soil drought affect the competition between native and invasive alien plant species. Three highly invasive alien plant species in West Europe, each with a native competitor, were grown either together or in isolation at ambient and at elevated air temperature (+3 C) in climate-controlled chambers. Equal amounts of water were added to all communities. Soil drought observed in the heated chambers did not induce severe stress in the plants. In two species pairs, Fallopia japonica (Houtt.)Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. and Solidago gigantea Ait.Epilobium hirsutum L. (alien invasivenative), the native species dominated in mixture, while the alien invasive species dominated in the third pair Senecio inaequidens DC.Plantago lanceolata L. Warming did not modify the competitive balance in any of these pairs, in spite of enhancing the aboveground biomass of S. inaequidens and P. lanceolata and the greater photosynthetic rates in S. inaequidens. The results of this study cannot be extrapolated to all invasive or exotic species but may represent the possible future of three principle invaders and some of their key native counterparts. Future experiments are needed to identify response patterns of alien plants to climate warming more in general.
20146896|The extant and potential (seed bank) vegetation of a rare maritime holly forest on Fire Island, New York was described to assess whether treefall gaps act as a mechanism for the persistence of the species composition of this plant community over time. The Sunken Forest overstory is dominated by Ilex opaca, Amelanchier canadensis and Sassafras albidum. A survey of canopy gaps indicated canopy openings compose 11.3% of the land within the Sunken Forest (16 ha). The composition and density of the seed bank were described using the emergence method. Germination from soil samples placed in the greenhouse was monitored over 2 years. Sixteen species germinated with an average propagule density of 21541 germinants per square metre. An early successional species (Rhus copallinum) dominated the seed bank, but the late-successional, shade-tolerant I. opaca was also present. Though only one species in the seed bank did not appear in the current vegetation, species abundance differed between vegetation strata. The mean cover and density of the ground-layer flora were higher beneath treefall gaps than closed canopy. Sapling density did not differ between the two canopy conditions, but the dominant species differed with A. canadensis occupying several closed canopy plots and P. serotina saplings appearing more often in gap plots. Most of the dominant canopy species are present in the seed bank and ground layer but are not present in the shrub and sapling layer, with the exception of A. canadensis. Current (2002) sapling density is lower than three decades ago for all species except P. serotina, which is now the dominant woody species in the Sunken Forest understory. The results of this study indicate that if the cause of the sapling reduction is lessened or removed, the characteristic species of the overstory of this unusual plant community may rebound and redevelop a sapling and shrub layer akin to that present before the increase in Odocoileus virginianus on the island.
20146344|Our study aimed at identifying mechanisms that permit the long-term persistence of Sarcopoterium spinosum, a dwarf-shrub that dominates large areas of hilly landscape in eastern Mediterranean countries. Data were obtained from 16 11 m quadrats distributed among well-established S. spinosum communities in Israel that had not been burned or otherwise disturbed for well over 20 years. We sampled three communities that represent different climatic and habitat conditions and analysed the growth rings in the root crowns of 604 uprooted plants, to determine the age structures of the sampled stands. Many older 'shrubs' that appeared to be individual plants were in fact clusters of ramets with their root crowns concentrated in a very small area. The morphology of these ramets indicates that they arose by rooting of peripheral stems. Seedlings and young plants were rare. Ramets seldom exceeded 17 years of age, although a few were 18-21 years old and one had 34 growth rings. The average ramet age on the different sites varied between 9 and 11 years. The ramets appeared to separate from the mother plant when they were older than 7 years, after which they had an estimated average half-life of ca. 2.8 years. Young shrubs grew rapidly in height, but their basal cover was low; it increased when they were much older, presumably as the older plants died. Consequently, three or four cohorts of older ramets between 12 and 17 years old often dominated stand cover. The continuing profuse production of seeds even where seedling recruitment is normally rare could be related to the relatively short average life-span of the ramets. We conclude that where resources are irregularly distributed and establishment sites are fully occupied by perennial species, localised phalanx-type clonal proliferation can reduce the risk of genet extinction. On favourable sites this strategy confers upon S. spinosum genets the tenacity required to hold off replacement by other species and to dominate large areas of the landscape for much longer than the average life span of individual ramets.
20146713| The purpose of this study was to determine whether fire recurrence modifies the regeneration capacity of Quercus coccifera garrigues in the Valencia region (eastern Spain). We studied several areas with different fire recurrences (1, 2 and 3 fires in 16 years), all of which had sustained a common last fire in 1994. Three-and-a-half years after the last fire, differences between the 3 fire recurrences were not detected with respect to total plant cover and Q. coccifera cover, with a mean value between 92 and 76%. On the most frequently burned sites, herbaceous and subshrub species cover showed a tendency to increase, while that of the obligate seeding shrub, Ulex parviflorus, decreased with both fire frequency and shorter last-fire interval. The most recurrently burned areas with the shortest last-fire intervals presented higher species richness, which mainly affected the herbaceous and subshrub species group, and of these, the hemichryptophytes. The major effect of fire recurrence was the significant decrease in stem and total biomass of Q. coccifera in the three studied sites. Three-and-a-half years after the fire, the mean total biomass values were around 1500, 1000 and 700 g. m in the garrigues with 1, 2 and 3 fires respectively. Stem production was more affected than leaf production. Leaf area index values showed the same pattern as leaf biomass. Recurrent fires also caused a decrease in net primary production measured the fourth year after fire. The results point to the fact that fire recurrence can cause depletion in garrigue productivity and recovery capacity in southern areas, in contrast with the high resilience observed in northern Mediterranean garrigues. 
20146770| The building and use of internal N stores in the grass Calamagrostis epigejos was investigated in context of complex ecological study focused on mechanisms underlying competitive ability of this highly successful invasive species. Induced changes in nitrogen availability in the course of two subsequent vegetation seasons were used as a tool for finding (i) to what extent high N availability in substrate is important for building N reserves in autumn that support spring regrowth and, (ii) if contrasting contents of N storage compounds may result in differences in growth in the next season. Plants were grown in solely inorganic substrate and received a nutrient solution containing 5 mol m of NHNO. The nitrogen supply was reduced in a low nitrogen (LN) treatment to 0.25 mol m in August whereas in high nitrogen (HN) treatment remained high till December. During the following growing season were plants from both treatments grown at the low N supply (0.25 mol m). An increase in the content of N storage compounds was observed from September to December in both treatments. Plants in the LN treatment showed significantly lower total N content and also N allocated to mobilizable reserves (20-50% of HN plants), namely due to a smaller accumulation of amino acids and soluble protein in autumn. External nitrogen availability in autumn is hence highly important for building N reserves in this species. A major portion of the nitrogen stored in HN plants during winter was taken up from growth medium in late autumn, whereas translocation from senescing shoots dominated in LN treatment. During the winter about 50% of N in plants was permanently present in shoots bearing several frost resistant green leaves. Spring regrowth was accompanied by a fast decrease of both total N and the content of N storage compounds in both treatments. Amino acids were identified as the most prominent source of mobilizable N during spring regrowth. Development of leaf area in LN plants was significantly slower in March and April than in HN plants namely due to smaller number of tillers and green leaves per plant. Low N availability in autumn, therefore, may result in restrictions of plant growth and development in the following season. 
20146948|The two most important components of biodiversity, species diversity and genetic diversity, have generally been treated as separate topics, although a coordination between both components is believed to be critical for ecosystem stability and resilience. Based on a new trait concept that allows for the assessment of genetic diversity across species, the relationship between species diversity and genetic diversity was examined in eight forest tree communities composed of different tree genera including both climax and pioneer species. It was intended to check whether a trade-off exists between the two diversity components as was found in a few studies on animal species. Using several isozyme-gene systems as genetic markers, the genetic diversity across species within each of the tree communities was determined by two measures, the commonly used intraspecific genetic diversity averaged over species and the recently developed transspecific genetic diversity per species. Both data sets were compared with the corresponding community-specific species diversity resulting in a positive relationship between the two diversity components. A statistically significant positive correlation was established between the transspecific genetic diversity per species and the species diversity for three isozyme-gene systems. Beyond that, consistent results were obtained using different parameters of the diversity measure which characterize the total, the effective and the number of prevalent variants. The number of prevalent variants reflected most significantly the non-randomness of the observed diversity patterns. These findings can be explained by the observation that the pioneer tree species reveal a by far higher genetic diversity than the climax tree species, which means that an increase in species diversity, due to the addition of several pioneer species at the expense of one or two climax species, goes along with an increase in the level of genetic diversity. Forest tree communities with the highest degree of species diversity exhibit therefore the highest transspecific genetic diversity per species. This result was discussed with regard to the particular composition and stability of forest tree communities.
20050595|We examined the response of a pasture community in southern Quebec (Canada) to long-term exposure of enriched atmospheric CO conditions. The study was conducted using open-top growth chambers directly placed on top of the natural pasture community. To investigate the change in the overall species composition in time and space, we used canonical correspondence analysis, a direct ordination method. Over the three years, the overall community responded significantly to enriched CO. The analyses show that, after three years, CO was the most important environmental variable affecting the species composition. Initially the presence of the wall of the chambers influenced the composition but CO became more important by the third year. Soil and air temperatures only slightly influenced the community composition. The first two axes of the canonical correspondence analysis explained a large proportion of the variation in the three years and these trends appeared to increase with time. Species such as Agropyron repens appeared to be positively influenced by the presence of the wall (slightly warmer conditions). However, the analyses suggest that Phleum pratense and Trifolium repens, for example, were favored by the increase in atmospheric CO. The variation in species composition in enriched versus ambient CO chambers suggests that the effect of the environmental factors, particularly CO, were important in affecting the rate and pattern of succession. Furthermore, the temporal increase in importance of the variable CO in the present analyses indicates that there might be a time-lag in response to atmospheric enrichment.
20146840|Increasing evidence shows that facilitative interaction and negative plant-soil feedback are driving factors of plant population dynamics and community processes. We studied the intensity and the relative impact of negative feedback on clonal growth and seed germination of Scirpus holoschoenus, a 'ring' forming sedge dominant in grazed grassland, and the consequences for species coexistence. The structure of aboveground tussocks was described. A Lithium tracer assessed belowground distribution of functional roots. Seed rain and seedling emergence were compared for different positions in relation to Scirpus tussocks. Soil bioassays were used to compare growth on soil taken from inside and outside Scirpus tussocks of four coexisting species (Mentha acquatica, Pulicaria dysenterica, Scirpus holoschoenus and Dittrichia viscosa). We also compared plant performance of dominant plant species inside and outside Scirpus tussocks in the field. The 'ring' shaped tussocks of S. holoschoenus were generated by centrifugal rhizome development. Roots were functional and abundant under the tillers and extending outside the tussocks. The large roots mats that were present in the inner tussock zone were almost all dead. Seedling emergence and growth both showed a strong negative feedback of Scirpus in the inner tussock zone. Scirpus clonal development strongly reduced grass biomass. In the degenerated tussock zone, Pulicaria and Mentha mortality was lower, and biomass of individual plants and seed production were higher. This positive indirect interaction could be related to species-specific affinity to soil conditions generated by Scirpus, and interspecific competitive release in the degenerated tussock zone. We conclude that Scirpus negative feedback affects its seedling emergence and growth contributing to the development of the degenerated inner tussock zone. Moreover, this enhances species coexistence through facilitative interaction because the colonization of the inner tussock zone is highly species-specific.
20050953|We studied vegetation and soil development during primary succession in an inland drift sand area in the Netherlands. We compared five sites at which primary succession had started at different moments in the past, respectively 0, 10, 43 and 121 years ago, and a site at which succession had not yet started. In the three younger sites the vegetation was herbaceous, whereas in the two older sites a pine forest had formed. Forest formation was accompanied by the development of an FH-layer in the soil, an increase in the amount of soil organic matter, and an increase in nitrogen mineralisation rate from 1.9 to 18 g N
20146771|Game theory predicts that the evolutionarily stable level of root production is greater for plants grown with neighbours compared to plants grown alone, even when the available resources per plant are constant. This follows from the fact that for plants grown alone, new roots compete only with other roots on the same plant, whereas for multiple plants grown in a group, new roots can also compete with the roots of other plants, thereby potentially acquiring otherwise unavailable resources at their neighbours' expense. This phenomenon, which results in plants grown with neighbours over-proliferating roots at the expense of above-ground biomass, has been described as a 'tragedy of the commons', and requires that plants can distinguish self from non-self tissues. While this game theoretical model predicts the evolutionarily stable strategies of individual plants, it has only been tested on average allocation patterns of groups of plants. This is problematic, because average patterns can appear to reflect a tragedy of the commons, even when none has occurred. In particular, assuming (1) a decelerating relationship between individual plant biomass and the amount of resources available, and (2) greater size inequality in plants grown with neighbours compared to plants grown alone (due to asymmetric competition), then plants grown with neighbours should, at least on average, be smaller than plants grown alone. This is a manifestation of 'Jensen's Inequality', which states that for decelerating functions, the average value of the function is less than the function of the average value. We suggest that Jensen's Inequality should serve as an appropriate null hypothesis for examining biologically-based explanations of changes in biomass allocation strategies.
24553727|Disturbance in the form of different management regimes affects established vegetation, but how the same management affects the corresponding seed banks is poorly understood. We used the seedling emergence method to investigate how present and previous management intensity impacts the dynamics of established vegetation and corresponding seed bank in six semi-natural grasslands (three pastures and three road verges) in W Norway. The increased management intensity reduced seed bank species richness but increased seedling density and the fraction of species with a persistent seed bank. Higher intensity also increased the components' floristic similarity, probably through formation of gaps where seeds may germinate. Moreover, the seed bank responded in parallel with the established vegetation to underlying environmental variables as well as to management intensity. Management intensity hence impacted directly on many aspects of seed bankestablished vegetation relationships, and controlled established vegetation partly through seed bank dynamics involving both temporal and spatial dispersal.
23267445|The success of invasive aridland plants may depend on their utilization of precipitation not fully exploited by native species, which could lead to seasonally altered ecosystem carbon and water fluxes. We measured volumetric soil water across 25-cm profiles ( 25cm ) and springtime whole-plant water- and carbon-fluxes of the exotic Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniana) and a native bunchgrass, bush muhly (Muhlenbergia porteri), following typical (55 mm in 2009) and El Nio-enhanced accumulations (154 mm in 2010) in a SE Arizona savanna. Across both years,  25cm was higher under lovegrass plots, with similar evapotranspiration (ET) between lovegrass and bush muhly plots. However, in 2010 transpiration (T) was higher in bush muhly than lovegrass, implying higher soil evaporation in love-grass plots maintained similar ET. Net ecosystem carbon dioxide exchange (NEE) was similar between lovegrass and bush muhly plots in 2009, but was more negative in bush muhly plots following El Nio, indicating greater CO 2 assimilation. Ecosystem respiration (R eco ) and gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) were similar between lovegrass and bush muhly plots in 2009, but were higher in bush muhly plots in 2010. As a result, lovegrass plots reduced ecosystem water-use efficiency (WUE e = NEE/ET), while bush muhly WUEe remained constant between 2009 and 2010. Concurrent whole-plant WUE (WUE p = GEP/T) did not change in lovegrass plots, but increased in bush muhly plots between these years. We concluded that cool-season precipitation use is not a component of Lehmann lovegrass invasive success, but that the change in ET partitioning and attendant shifts in cool-season WUE e may increase interannual variation in ecosystem water- and carbon-exchange dynamics in the water-limited systems it dominates.
20051293|In the southern part of Korup National Park, Cameroon, the mast fruiting tree Microberlinia bisulcata occurs as a codominant in groves of ectomycorrhizal Caesalpiniaceae within a mosaic of otherwise species-rich lowland rain forest. To estimate the amount of carbon and nutrients invested in reproduction during a mast fruiting event, and the consequential seed and seedling survival, three related field studies were made in 1995. These provided a complete seed and seedling budget for the cohort. Seed production was estimated by counting woody pods on the forest floor. Trees produced on average 26,000 (range 0-92,000) seeds/tree, with a dry mass of 16.6 kg/tree. Seeds were contained in woody pods of mass 307 kg/tree. Dry mass production of pods and seeds was 1034
20146522|Disturbance frequently is implicated in the spread of invasive exotic plants. Disturbances may be broadly categorized as endogenous (e.g., digging by fossorial animals) or exogenous (e.g., construction and maintenance of roads and trails), just as weedy species may be native or exotic in origin. The objective of this study was to characterize and compare exotic and native weedy plant occurrence in and near three classes of disturbance -- digging by prairie dogs (an endogenous disturbance to which native plants have had the opportunity to adapt), paved or gravel roads (an exogenous disturbance without natural precedent), and constructed trails (an exogenous disturbance with a natural precedent in trails created by movement of large mammals) -- in three geographically separate national park units. I used plant survey data from the North and South Units of Theodore Roosevelt National Park and Wind Cave National Park in the northern mixed-grass prairie of western North and South Dakota, USA, to characterize the distribution of weedy native and exotic plants with respect to the three disturbance classes as well as areas adjacent to them. There were differences both in the susceptibility of the disturbance classes to invasion and in the distributions of native weeds and exotic species among the disturbance classes. Both exotic and native weedy species richness were greatest in prairie dog towns and community composition there differed most from undisturbed areas. Exotic species were more likely to thrive near roadways, where native weedy species were infrequently encountered. Exotic species were more likely to have spread beyond the disturbed areas into native prairie than were weedy native species. The response of individual exotic plant species to the three types of disturbance was less consistent than that of native weedy species across the three park units.
40305537|We compared the size and spatial pattern of the germinable soil seed bank (GSB) of the three dominant perennial-grass species in the arid Patagonian Monte of Argentina. These species differ in plant functional traits, seed morphology, and in their preference by grazers. During three consecutive years, we sampled the soil seed bank at 1 m intervals and the intercepted diameter of perennial-grass species and shrub patches along 50-m linear transects at three sites with different grazing pressure. Soil samples were incubated at field capacity during 12 weeks and emerged seedlings counted. The largest-seeded and most xerophytic Stipa speciosa did not form a GSB. The other two grass species with more mesophytic traits and smaller seeds than 5. speciosa formed different GSB. Poa ligularis formed a smaller and more heterogeneous GSB than Stipa tennis. Grazing had not effect on GSB size of P. ligularis but increased the proportion of seeds under dense shrub canopies. In contrast, grazing reduced the size and also increased the proportion of the GSB of S. tenuis under shrub canopies. We conclude that the size and the spatial pattern of the GSB of the dominant perennial-grass species in the arid Patagonian Monte were related not only to seed and plant traits but also to the spatial distribution of grass plants and their exposure to grazers.
20051107|Concerns over the relative stability or sensitivity of biologically diverse ecosystems in relation to environmental change include the effects of land-use intensification on diverse plant communities. This paper examines the sensitivity of a floristically diverse flood-meadow under hay-cutting management to nitrogen enrichment, this being a key component of intensified agricultural management. A gradient of fertilizer nitrogen treatments was applied to a site in the Czech Republic in two successive seasons and plant community response was monitored using measures of species diversity, cover and above-ground primary production. Results show that diversity was supported by annual hay-cutting management and that the community was highly sensitive to nitrogen enrichment. Fertilization at rates consistent with intensive agricultural practice reduced species richness significantly within eight weeks, with forbs and moss particularly susceptible. The cover and biomass of some grasses were stimulated by fertilization until constrained by litter accumulation. Over two seasons, fertilization significantly reduced species diversity and simplified community structure as inter-specific competitive relations shifted. Biologically diverse flood-meadows therefore seem to be vulnerable to agricultural intensification and other human activities that promote enhanced nitrogen levels.
40540377|A survey of 93 wetlands in six catchments across the Maloti-Drakensberg is used to assess the distribution of plant functional types across altitudinal and wetness gradients. Altitudes range from 1,000 to 3,200 m a.s.1. Within each catchment, the wetlands were selected to cover the complete range in altitude and wetland types. In each of the selected wetlands, vegetation was sampled in 3 by 3 m quadrats covering the entire range of wetness represented in the wetland, from temporarily wet to permanently inundated soils. Plant species were allocated to one of 11 different functional types (examples are C grasses, C sedges, rosette plants, and shrubs), and the proportion of the vegetation in each sample occupied by each functional type was calculated from the species' abundances. Canonical Correspondence Analysis shows that "wetness" clearly has the highest impact on the distribution of functional types, followed by altitude. The most important plant functional types in wetlands are grasses and sedges, however, at higher altitudes, forbs (especially rosette plants) and bulbous plants become a more prominent feature in the wetlands. The total amount of graminoids gradually decreases with altitude. The general trend is that sedges tend to increase with increasing wetness and C plants (grasses and sedges) increase with increasing altitude, but these effects are not independent. The distributions of C sedges and C grasses along an altitudinal gradient are quite different, and C grasses grow abundantly at much higher altitudes than C sedges. C sedges are very scarce at the altitudes represented in the Maloti-Drakensberg area, whereas C grasses occur in the permanently wet parts of the wetlands, especially at higher altitudes (normally mostly occupied by sedges). Shrubs are rare in wetlands and tend to be an indication of disturbance. This study complements previous studies on the distribution of grasses and sedges at the lower altitudes within KwaZulu-Natal, which found that at altitudes below 1,000 m a. s.1. C sedges were much more prominent, while forbs and rosette plants were largely absent. This confirms that C as an adaptation to hotter and warmer climates is sometimes a less favorable metabolism in wet high altitude areas. At high altitudes, rosette plants and bulbous plants become more competitive in wetlands, probably because grasses and sedges present at these altitudes generally grow smaller than they do in low altitude wetlands.
20051196|A phytosociological study was carried out along a 450 km transect in tropical southeastern Mexico in order to identify plant communities. Five major plant communities were distinguished and described: Sebastiania adenophora-Plumeria obtusa var. sericifolia-Agave angustifolia community, Manilkara zapota-Coccothrinax readii community, Coccoloba acapulcensis-Hampea trilobata-Metopium brownei community, Vitex gaumeri-Caesalpinia gaumeri community and Trichilia glabra-Brosimum alicastrum-Orbignya cohune community. Those communities reflect preference of different environmental factors such as soils, precipitation and local relief. Further, the major threats (hurricanes, fires, agriculture) to the vegetation of the study area are discussed.
40305757|The line-point transect method has been used to estimate plant cover for about nine decades. In particular, the method is often used to determine baseline plant cover and monitor for changes in plant cover over time. In such cases, detection of change requires both the initial transect starting position and angle of orientation are exact in relocation without error. A study was conducted on influences of errors in basal cover estimates that resulted from inexact relocation and orientation of a resample transect. Simulation studies of actual field data showed that variation in plant cover estimates from relocated linepoint transects increased with each source of error and combinations of these errors. Relocated transects resulted in unbiased estimates of total-plant cover only when means over all transects are used to detect changes over time. Substantial errors were observed when the mean cover of individually relocated transect was compared to its original transect.
20146919|Patterns of native and exotic species richness and cover were examined together with the composition of species assemblages along a typical Mediterranean river and across its floodplain. Major goals were to characterize species distribution regarding diverse environmental and habitat features, and to explore floodplain landforms relations using plant assemblages and invasion responses as biological indicators of aquatic-terrestrial connectivity. A floristic survey was undertaken during May and early June 1998 in six sites of a southern Iberian basin. Vegetation data were gathered from three transects in three landforms: inundated and frequently flooded banks (FF), infrequently flooded valley floors (IF), and rarely flooded higher floodplains (RF). We used 22 m plots to record each species present and visual estimates of percentage cover of each species. Cover of native and exotic species assemblages were also estimated for each plots, for the transects, and for the landforms. The total number of vascular plant species found was 287 of which only 26 were exotic. Despite the high environmental and geomorphological variability, the hierarchical classification showed that species composition varied across the floodplain, rather than along the river. The IF and RF landforms were the most species-rich, both for native and exotic species group, whereas the cover trends of exotic and native plant species were opposed, with exotics being consistently more abundant in FF, and native cover increasing towards RF landforms. We found positive correlations between native and exotic species richness on the floodplain scale, and on a smaller scale in FF and IF landforms, thus supporting the hypothesis that in aquatic and riparian ecosystems of semi-arid landscapes, species-rich communities are preferentially colonized by exotic species. However, this pattern was not consistently coupled with a high cover of exotic species, and it was not sustained for the dry areas of the RF landforms.
20146383|In this paper, we propose a measure of divergence from species to life-form diversity based on the notion of intrinsic diversity ordering. First, species and life-form relative abundances within the analyzed community are determined. Next, community intrinsic diversity profile is computed both from species and life-form relative abundances. Finally, the speed of decrease from species to life-form diversity is obtained by comparing the area under the species diversity profile with the area under the corresponding life-form diversity profile. Since life-forms classify plants into ecologically relevant groups irrespective of their systematics, the proposed measure might be useful to quantify the ecological similarity of different communities without loosing information on traditional taxonomic diversity figures. As an application for demonstration, a small data set from a garigue community on ultramafic soils of Tuscany (central Italy) is used.
20051279|This study explores early vegetation development on pumice at Mount St. Helens. We monitored species annually in a grid of 200 contiguous 100-m plots between 1989 and 1999. Of interest were how vegetation changed and if it became more homogeneous over time. Species richness and cover increased annually. Diversity (H) stabilized by 1996 and began to decline as long-lived stress-tolerant species such as Agrostis pallens, Carex mertensii and Penstemon cardwellii began to dominate. Protected sites had more species and higher cover than did exposed ones. Plots next to relict vegetation had more species and cover than did distant plots. The vegetation initially was dominated by species with good dispersal, but subsequently those with poor dispersal became dominant. We compared species expansion patterns to a model based on random colonization. The results implied that populations with poor dispersal derived from a few colonists that then produced seeds for local expansion. Detrended correspondence analysis showed a pronounced shift in species composition. This analysis also showed that species composition was becoming more homogeneous over time. However, significant heterogeneity remained and some plots are diverging from others. As yet, this vegetation is not developing towards a regional vegetation type. Rather, an unusual community with Agrostis spp., Carex spp., Penstemon cardwellii, Lupinus lepidus, Anaphalis margaritacea and Salix commutata has developed. The accumulation phase of primary succession is nearly complete. The next phase, in which vertical structure develops as Salix and conifers mature, has scarcely begun. It should be marked by the invasion of forest understory species and loss of subalpine meadow species. Assembly rules based on biotic interactions may then become evident.
20050408|The green alga Selenastrum capricornutum was grown in a specially developed continuous culture system to study long-term effects of chronic UV-B exposure. The new system improves upon previous laboratory culture approaches. It is demonstrated that short-term experiments underestimate UV-B effects. It is also shown that photoinhibition cannot explain the effects under chronic exposure. Under both nutrient-replete and phosphorus-limiting conditions a UV-B mediated delay in cell division rate and an increase in the cellular content of proteins, carbohydrates and chlorophyll a was measured. Transition experiments showed that complete acclimatisation to UV-B took several cell cycles. DNA damage appears to be the major cause of the observed long-term UV-B effects.
41429062|Three invasive Fallopia taxa are present in Belgium: F. japonica (FJ), F. sachalinensis (FS) and their hybrid F. X bohemica (FB). FS is the least invasive of the three taxa. In this study, we compared the taxa, in sites where they co-occur, for differences in functional traits that might influence their competitive ability and invasiveness shoot height and ramification, leaf size, specific leaf area (SLA) and foliar nitrogen (N) concentration. The three taxa exhibited similar growth kinetics and similar SLA.However, FS differed in its architecture and allocation of leaf area, having less ramified shoots and a steeper gradient of decreasing leaf size along the main shoot.Also, FS had greater foliar N and less efficient N rsorption from senescing leaves. These traits values may result in lower competitive ability of FS for light and nitrogen. For the same traits, FB was generally intermediate between FS and FJ, but often closer to the latter. FB was more variable than FS and FJ, possibly due to larger genetic variation. SLA and ramification varied greatly amongst sites for all taxa, due in part to plastic response to contrasting light regimes. Variation in functional traits values may in part explain the variation in invasiveness amongst the members of the Fallopia complex in Belgium.
40212851|Several components of diversity (ecological, taxonomic, chorological and morphological--functional) were studied in the woody vegetation of the cork oak forests in the northern Straits of Gibraltar Region, and their relationship to the two main environmental gradients (one mainly climatic--precipitation, fog--and another secondary related to the disturbance and hydric stress associated with hillslope orientation). An inventory of the woody species and their cover measure was carried out on 94 plots. The relationship between the components of diversity and the main environmental gradients was analysed by means of regression analysis. Decreases of species richness, Shannon diversity index, Western Mediterranean species cover, percentage of endemism and the share of the Herrera Syndrome I in diversity were related to the increase of the precipitation and the fog. However, the cover and percentage of species of the Circum-Mediterranean and Mediterranean-Eurosiberian chorological groups increase with the precipitation and the fog. Disturbance and hydric stress associated with hillslope orientation, have a negative effect on specific richness of the Mediterranean-Eurosiberian chorological group and taxonomic singularity, but its have a positive effect on the share of the Herrera Syndrome I in diversity. The number of edaphic endemisms is associated mainly with disturbance. In the cork forests does not exist an inverse relationship between the number of endemisms and floristic richness, as it happens in other Mediterranean areas. It has suggested that this pattern is due to effect of competitive exclusion associated with disturbance in vegetation on relatively fertile substrate.
40305573|We evaluated the combined effects of fire after drought on the seed bank composition and its role in the postfire recovery of NW Patagonia grasslands. During three years, we monitored the seed bank and the aboveground vegetation. Species were arranged in functional groups and Detrended Correspondence Analysis was used to separate sites according to species and functional groups. Similarity between aboveground vegetation and seed bank was calculated with Srensen Index. In the first year, the seed density was similar in the control and burned sites and was lower than following years in all the sites. The species that survived the high temperatures were all annuals with the exception of the perennial species Fabiana imbricata and Rumex acetosella. In the second postfire year, the diversity and seed density increased due to the contribution of fugitive species (rare in the community) and exotic annual species. Seed bank of perennial species was the most affected by fire and just recovered in the third year. Drought did not affect the similarity between the seed bank and vegetation. Fire had low impact on the total seed bank, probably due to the heat buffering nature of the soil, whereas drought reduced significantly seed bank size and richness. Seed bank contributes to grassland richness maintenance.
40305777|This study is the first to investigate quantitative effects of plant community composition and diversity on N fixation in legumes. N fixation in three perennial Trifolium species grown in field plots with varied number of neighbouring species was evaluated with the N natural abundance method (two field sites, several growing seasons, no N addition) and the isotope dilution method (one site, one growing season, 5 g N m). The proportion of plant N derived from N fixation, pNdfa, was generally high, but the N addition decreased pNdfa, especially in species-poor communities. Also following N addition, the presence of grasses in species-rich communities increased pNdfa in T. hybridum and T. repens L., while legume abundance had the opposite effect. In T. repens, competition for light from grasses appeared to limit growth and thereby the amount of N fixed at the plant level, expressed as mg N fixed per sown seed. We conclude that the occurrence of diversity effects seems to be largely context dependent, with soil N availability being a major determinant, and that species composition and functional traits are more important than species richness regarding how neighbouring plant species influence N fixation in legumes.
20050555|To clarify vegetation-landform relationships, we examined the soil disturbance regime in relation to micro-scale landforms and its effects on vegetation structure in a mixed temperate forest in a hilly area in northeastern Japan. Soil profiles in each micro-landform unit were surveyed to elucidate the effects of soil disturbances on the vegetation structure. The hilly area studied consisted of an upper and a lower hillslope area divided by an erosion front, which differed considerably with respect to vegetation structure. In the upper hillslope area, canopy was closed and dominated by Pinus densiflora and Quercus serrata. In the lower hillslope area, on the other hand, canopy was less closed and shrubs, ferns, and herbaceous species were abundant. The species composition changed gradually from the crest slope to the upper sideslope to the head hollow in the upper hillslope area. However, micro-landforms in the lower hillslope area seemed to have less effect on the vegetation structure. This may be because the lower hillslope area, in contrast to the upper hillslope area, has suffered from soil disturbances, and hence shrubs, ferns, and herbs have developed irrespective of micro-landforms. Thus, vegetation can be quite different depending on whether or not sites have suffered from soil disturbance. In disturbed stands, it is suggested that the frequency and intensity of disturbance are more important for species composition than the type of soil disturbance.
20146339|We examined spatial and temporal variability of understory herbaceous vegetation on opposing north- and south- facing slopes in an eastern deciduous old-growth forest in southeastern Ohio, USA. Secondly, we explored the influence of sampling scale and analytical technique on our assessment of diversity patterns. The influence of aspect and seasonality were examined at varying sampling scales using observed richness, evenness, and H diversity measures, non-parametric richness estimators, species-area curves, and SHE analysis. Herb layer composition, abundance, and diversity were strongly influenced by location (north slope vs. south slope), seasonal sampling period (April, June, August), and plot size (micro (2 m)- vs. meso (70 m)-scale samples). Although north and south plots were compositionally distinct, they followed similar courses of change through the growing season. Richness, evenness, and H diversity were generally greater on the south plot whereas herbaceous abundance was greater on the north plot. Species composition and diversity showed marked phenological (temporal) changes, and comparison of diversity measures at micro- and meso-scales produced markedly different results. Minimum sample areas of 150-200 m were needed to evaluate micro-scale richness in these species rich communities, suggesting that forest understories may be frequently undersampled in ecological studies. Comparison of observed and estimated meso-scale richness also suggested underestimation of richness in the north plot, particularly earlier in the growing season. Thus, sample size, area, and time of sampling appear critical to assessment of diversity in spatially and temporally variable communities such as herbaceous forest understories.
40305703|Chlorophyll fluorescence and landscapelevel reflectance imagery were used to evaluate spatial variations in stress in Myrica cerifera and Iva frutescens during a severe drought and compared to an extremely wet year. Measurements of relative water content and the water band index (WBI) indicated that the water stress did not vary across the island. In contrast, there were significant differences in tissue chlorides across sites for both species. Using the physiological reflectance index (PRI), we were able to detect salinity stress across the landscape. For M. cerifera, PRI did not differ between wet and dry years, while for I. frutescens, there were differences in PRI during the 2 years, possibly related to flooding during the wet year. There was a positive relationship between PRI and
41412353|Plant competitive effect and response ability are known to change with plant age, however it remains unclear how competitive hierarchies among plant species change as plants age and transition between life stages. We examined the competitive interactions among seven species in all pairwise combinations in a greenhouse experiment. Competitive effect and response were measured as the relative yield (RY) for each target-neighbor species combination for both seedling and adult plants. Competitive hierarchies were constructed based on competitive effect and response scores, and we examined the degree of transitivity in the seedling and adult competitive hierarchies. The competitive effect hierarchy did not vary substantially with plant age, while the competitive response hierarchy was highly variable between juvenile and adult plants. Competitive effect and response ability were positively correlated at both plant stages. The seedling relative yield matrix was predominantly transitive, while there were far fewer transitive competitive relationships among the adult plants. The breakdown of the clear competitive hierarchy among seedlings as plants aged may explain why competition does not appear to be an active mechanism structuring some late-successional plant communities. In early-successional communities, interactions among seedlings with a clear competitive hierarchy may establish competitive abilityabundance relationships that persist as a legacy effect even though the breakdown of the competitive hierarchy among adult plants removes competition as an active mechanism structuring some late-successional plant communities.
20146384|The recruitment of a dioecious bird-dispersed tree, the holly Ilex aquifolium (Aquifoliaceae), was studied considering the stages of fruit removal by birds, seed rain, post-dispersal seed predation, seed germination and seedling survival. The main objective was to test the effect of different microhabitats within a beech forest on recruitment stages. Migrant thrushes were the main dispersers of this tree whose fruit crops were entirely removed during two study years. Seed rain was greatest beneath holly trees regardless of their sex and lowest in the open sites. Post-dispersal seed predation was examined by two experiments and did not differ between microhabitats despite its quantitative importance (about 70%). Seedling emergence, which probably corresponded to seeds from several cohorts, was greater beneath trees than in open sites and the density of second-yr to 5 cm seedlings depended on the presence-absence of ungulate herbivores and litter. While the former had a detrimental effect, the latter had a beneficial effect on seedling abundance. Seedling survival showed no significant variations between microhabitats but depended on seedling density in some microhabitats (holly, beech). Finally, the initial seed arrival seemed to determine microhabitat suitability for holly seedling establishment. However, under heavy browsing the density of seedlings may be strongly reduced leading to microhabitat homogeneity for holly seedling establishment.
40606947|In desert regions, water availability triggers primary production, which determines seed production, the composition and size of soil seed reserves and the abundance and behaviour of seed-eating animals. In the central Monte desert, large precipitation events (10 mm) account for a high proportion of growing season's rainfall. Our first objective here was to assess whether and how timing and amount of seed production of C and C perennial grasses are linked to spring and summer precipitation pulses and to estimate the seasonal and year-to-year variability in seed production. Our second aim was to calculate grass seed production and compare it with seed requirements by granivorous animals to infer whether the animals can exert top-down effects on plant populations. Seed production of C and C species was triggered by significant spring and summer rainfall, respectively. Such distinct response may be associated with the effect of precipitation during flower development and seed set in both functional groups. In all species, seed production varied among years. Rainfall pulses in the summer triggered and positively affected the magnitude of seed production in most C grasses. However, all perennial grasses were able to produce high amount of seeds even during a year subjected to extreme drought, suggesting that perenniality would allow these species to make large reproductive investment despite harsh environmental conditions. The comparative assessment of seed production and consumer demands suggests that it is unlikely that granivory exerts a topdown control on grasses in the Monte desert.
41508653|Based on atlas data with a 10-km cell resolution for 1,406 exotic plant species inhabiting Great Britain, we investigate the extent to which arrival time (residence time) and biogeographical origin (climate suitability) are associated with range sizes of exotic plants and how exotic plant richness is related to current climate and the human footprint. We grouped species according to four arrival periods (archaeophytes and three classes of neophytes), and three broad biogeographical origins, each reflecting a different macroclimate similarity with the study region (northern Holarctic > Mediterranean > and tropical-subtropical). While we found that mean range sizes increased with residence time, no strong effect of the region of origin on range size was detected. Also, across all groups, species richness was primarily and positively associated with temperature, whereas relationships with human footprint were much weaker, albeit also positive in all cases. The proportion of variance explained by environmental models of richness increased from groups comprising recently arrived species to those that arrived earlier, and from tropicalsubtropical species to exotics coming from the Holarctic. Our data also illustrate how these trends translate into richness patterns and their association with climate, which become more similar to native richness patterns as residence time and macroclimatic matching increase. In contrast, broad-scale human alteration of ecosystems appeared to be less important for variation in exotic richness than climate, although we did not evaluate anthropogenic effects at finer scales.
41508654|Leaf water repellency (LWR) is the degree to which water droplets repel from a leaf surface. LWR has been suggested as an adaptation to maximize gas exchange during photosynthesis and as a mechanism to increase hydrological inputs beneath the canopy. This article examined the relationships between LWR and leaf traits in 33 species across three distinct biogeographical regions (tropical montane cloud forests in Guatemala; tropical dry forests in Guatemala; and foothills-grassland vegetation in the U.S.). The objectives of this study were to determine if leaf area, leaf thickness, leaf biomass, specific leaf area, leaf toughness, stomatal density, and the presence of epiphylls explained variation in LWR in the 33 species. LWR was greatest in the dry foothills-grassland ecotone in Colorado and lowest in humid cloud forest of the Sierra de las Minas. Most possible pairs of species were significantly different from each other at each study area. Significant variation in all leaf traits was found among species and sites. LWR was not explained by leaf area, leaf thickness, leaf biomass, and specific leaf area. The presence of epiphylls influenced LWR on the abaxial leaf surfaces of species of the Sierra de las Minas. The article concludes that leaf traits related to size and mass do not influence LWR; however, the variation in LWR in species between distinct biogeographical regions remains an important research area in ecohydrology.
41508813|Gypsum outcrops of southeastern Spain (Almeria) have been highlighted as the most outstanding for the conservation of Iberian gypsum flora by flora rarity and richness, as vascular as cryptogamic plants. However, plant community distribution patterns according to soil chemical properties have been little studied in these gypsum areas. Spatial distribution pattern of plant communities in gypsum hills and its relation to soil chemical properties was surveyed in this study. Twenty-one plots (5  5 m) were settled along a semiarid gypsum gradient in Rio de Aguas Basin. Soil samples were taken from each plot's superficial layer for chemical analysis. Plant canopy cover was sampled at species level. Three plant community bands are identified (from bottom to top) as level I (Flat Piedmont Zone), level II (Hill Slope Zone), and level III (Hill Top Zone). Gypsophyte species (mainly found in level II) appear to be specifically adapted to nutrient-stressed environments (high sulfate content and deficiency in some soil nutrients). Nutrients play an essential ecological role in determining species distribution and community composition. Since this area is a very important site for extracting very high quality gypsum, the pattern described here can be used as a useful tool for ecological restoration of gypsum quarries. Considering environmental heterogeneity of gypsum areas (as an "ecosystem of reference") is crucial for a successful ecological restoration.
20146654|Biotas of both geographical islands and habitat islands are often nested subsets of the biotas of successively more species-rich islands within the same system. The life history characteristics of a species may determine how that species contributes to the general pattern of species nestedness. Here, I investigate the floras of 56 sedge meadow wetlands in northern Illinois (USA) in order to characterize the degree of nestedness in these communities, determine which individual plant species contribute to the nested pattern, and investigate species characteristics that might be related to nonrandom patterns of distribution in individual plant species. The entire assemblage of species at all sedge meadows was significantly nested. Species richness and area were significantly correlated, and the nested pattern was closely related to site area, suggesting that species drop out of the assemblage in a predictable order as site area decreases. Some individual species exhibited nonrandom distributions across the sites, occurring more often in large, species-rich sites. Large sites were more likely than smaller sites to contain conservative species, i.e., those typical of pristine natural habitat, whereas nonconservative species were distributed more randomly among sites. Nested patterns of distribution of conservative species with respect to site area may result from their high probability of extinction on small sites or from a tendency for required habitats to co-occur on the same large sites.
23500354|The study area is an urban forest remnant in the city of Tampere (Finland). The presence of vascular plant species were surveyed in 1980 and again in 2000 within the 5  5 m grid cells covering the whole forest. The forest fragment has been influenced by three types of urban pressure: general ecological conditions (such as eutrophication due to increase of nitrogen), edge effect and local human disturbance. A general and spatially even eutrophication was reflected in the frequencies of C- and S-strategists as a shift towards to the C-point in the CSR triangle. The total number of native species (83 in 1980, 89 in 2000), typical Vaccinium type (VT)-forest species (32 in 1980, 31 in 2000) and aliens (57 in 1980, 68 in 2000) did change, but only to a moderate extent. The number of typical VT-forest species and native species were more common in central parts of the fragment. In terms of the number of species, the forest has been relatively resistant to date to major changes. However, the average number of native plant species per grid cell increased from 13.7 to 14.4, the average number of aliens increased from 2.0 to 4.2 and the average number of typical VT-forest species decreased from 5.5 to 5.0. Natives were spatially concentrated in the centre in 1980, but in 2000 they were more evenly distributed. The edge has offered habitats for new species, but the typical VT-forest species of the original sub-xeric forest are slowly diminishing.
23267391|Seed movements and fates are important for restoration as these determine spatial patterns of recruitment and ultimately shape plant communities. This article examines litter cover and microsite effects on seed availability at a saline site revegetated with Eucalyptus sargentii tree rows interplanted with 56 rows of saltbush (Atriplex spp.). As litter accumulation decreases with increasing distance from tree rows, soil seed banks were compared between paired bare and litter-covered zones within three microsites; tree row, saltbush row closest to tree row and saltbush mid-row (middle row of saltbush between tree rows). Germinable seed banks of the four most abundant species with contrasting seed sizes and dispersal mechanisms were assessed to test the hypotheses that: (i) microsites with litter cover contain higher seed densities than bare areas, but that (ii) microsite and litter effects will vary depending on seed size and dispersal mechanisms. Overall, litter cover increased seed densities, however, litter effects varied with seed size, with no effect on small-seeded species and litter increasing densities of large-seeded species. Seed bank composition also differed between tree and shrub microsites due to differences in seed morphology and dispersal mechanisms. Water-dispersed species were unaffected by microsite but densities of wind-dispersed species, including Atriplex spp., were higher in saltbush microsites. Densities of wind-dispersed species also differed between the two saltbush microsites despite similar litter cover. Future plantings should consider row spacing and orientation, as well as the dimensions of seeding mounds and associated neighbouring depressions, to maximize litter and seed-trapping by microsites.
20146740|Species richness, community composition and ecology of cryptogamic epiphytes (bryophytes, macrolichens) were studied in upper montane primary, early secondary and late secondary oak forests of the Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica. Canopy trees of Quercus copeyensis were sampled with the aim of getting insight in patterns and processes of epiphyte succession and recovery of diversity in secondary forest following forest clearing. Species richness of cryptogamic epiphytes in secondary and primary forests were nearly the same, showing that primary forests are not necessarily more diverse than secondary forests. High species richness of secondary forests was presumed due to the closed canopy, resulting in permanently high atmospheric humidity in these forests. Similarity in species composition of secondary and primary forests increases with forest age, but after 40 years of succession one third (46 species) of primary forest species had not re-established in the secondary forest. Community composition in primary and secondary forests differed markedly and indicates that a long time is needed for the re-establishment of microhabitats and reinvasion of species and communities adapted to differentiated niches. Genera and species exclusive to primary forests are relevant as indicator taxa and conservation targets. Forty percent (68 species) of all species recorded are restricted to secondary forests, indicating the important contribution of secondary forest diversity to total species richness of the oak forests of Costa Rica.
40305696|Against a background of increasing land use intensification on favorable agricultural areas and land abandonment on less arable areas in the Alps, the aim of this investigation was to detect whether and how 10 differently used types of grassland can be distinguished by site factors, plant species composition, and biodiversity. By using a very large number of vegetation surveys (936) that were widely distributed in the Central Alps, site parameters and species composition of the different land use types were compared by discriminant analyses and various biodiversity indices. Results showed that land use is a significant factor affecting the development of different grassland communities with site factors playing a subordinate, yet important role. The 10 land use types studied can be clearly differentiated from one another by single species as well as by species composition. Our study found that the number of plant communities along with the number of species decreases constantly and significantly with increasing land use intensity and on abandoned land. For example, on average, extensively used meadows have more than three times as many species as intensively used meadows. Further, the most even distribution of species (Evenness index) is reached in intensively used meadows, whereas on pastures and abandoned land, some species become dominant forcing other species to recede. The results confirm that due to current trends in agriculture, such as land abandonment and land use intensification, plant diversity in the Alps is decreasing considerably.
40305598|Integrating population and community ecology can improve our understanding of the impacts of natural disturbances. Fire-stimulated flowering occurs in many long-lived herbaceous species of firemaintained grasslands and savannas. Coexistence of these long-lived species may be affected in part by interspecific differences in the effect of fire-stimulated flowering on resource conservation, clonal growth, and longevity. This study comprised two parts. The first part investigated the effectiveness of different firerelated cues on fire-stimulated flowering in two cooccurring dominant grass species in a wet longleaf pine {Pinus palustris) savanna in southeastern Mississippi, USA. The second part investigated the immediate effects of the most important of these cues (damage and removal of aboveground vegetation and surface litter in May) along with nutrient addition on several measures of fitness and abundance over 6 years. Despite being a very effective inductive cue, when repeated frequently over 6 years, clipping plus surface litter removal significantly reduced flowering in both species. This negative effect was reduced to some extent by nutrient addition in Muhlenbergia expansa (which exhibited higher reproductive investment following clipping and fire than did Ctenium aromaticum). Frequent clipping resulted in an increasing numerical advantage of C. aromaticum over M. expansa with time. There was evidence of a modest release of C. aromaticum from competition with M. expansa in response to annual clipping. Responses suggest that suppressing flowering until after fire reduces the cost of flowering and maintains shoot densities, at least in M. expansa. Differences in the responses of these two species to repeated clipping and nutrient addition suggest that, despite their both exhibiting fire-stimulated flowering, each species is favored by slightly different fire frequencies. Moderate variation in fire frequency could maintain their coexistence in the long term.
20051124|We conducted a factorial removal experiment in the arid strandveld on the west coast of South Africa to test the hypothesis that perennial species with a "preference" for occurring in multi-species clumps should derive benefits from their association into clumps. Contrary to our hypothesis, we obtained evidence of competition for water in the clumped non-succulent species studied in the form of depressed water potentials. We were not able to detect any effect on leaf water contents associated with isolation, suggesting that clumped plants are able to compensate physiologically in response to competitive stress. We also found that isolating individuals had no effect (positive or negative) on branch growth. Finally, we showed that isolating individuals exposed them to a far greater risk of damage by wind or animals. In light of these results we conclude that the spatial arrangement of plants in this community does suggest a situation where the benefits associated with occurring in clumps exceed any competitive costs.
20050795|Vegetation development in dry heathlands was studied during a six-year period following experimental burning, sod-cutting and cutting in a continental area in the southern part of the Czech Republic (Podyj National Park). Calluna vulgaris-dominated heathlands in the area were composed of uneven-aged stands and had been unmanaged for several decades. The aim of the study was testing the applicability of Western European management systems to nature conservation in a continental area. Species composition was recorded in 8 permanent plots using 25  25 cm grids, and vegetation recovery following different treatments was analysed. Calluna recovered successfully after burning. Burning dense heathlands, which contained a large amount of woody fuel, resulted in a medium-intensity fire that destroyed moss mats and litter and exposed patches of bare ground to facilitate Calluna regeneration by seed, in addition to vegetative regrowth. On the contrary, in open heathlands with patches of herbaceous vegetation, low-intensity fires which failed to expose mineral soil were more typical. Almost all Calluna regeneration was vegetative in this case, and regrowth was slower. Heathland recovery after sod-cutting to mineral soil depended on whether or not Calluna seed germination occurred in the plot. With germination, the community developed towards heathland; without towards grassland. Cutting promoted a striking increase in grass cover, which was followed by the slow recovery of Calluna. The experiments suggest that of these management systems, burning is perhaps the most appropriate in the study area. A nature conservation management system is proposed, based on sheep grazing combined with rotational burning of restricted patches.
20050914|Pollination systems of Salix miyabeana and Salix sachalinensis were studied at a riverside in northern Japan in order to measure the balance of wind pollination and insect pollination. In 1996, 19 clones of each species were selected, and seed-set success by a net-bagging (to exclude insect visitation) and an artificial pollination (to remove pollen limitation) were compared to by natural pollination. For S. miyabeana, the same experiment was repeated in two populations in 1997. Proportion of seed set through wind pollination dominated in both species in this study. Pollen limitation was common under natural conditions, and S. sachalinensis relied more on insect pollination for seed production than S. miyabeana. Meteorological factors such as precipitation and hours of sunshine during the flowering season influenced the potential reproductive activity of the willow between years. In the wet and cloudy spring of 1996, clones which obtained high seed set depended more on insect pollination for both species, whereas in the dry and sunny spring of 1997, such clones depended more on wind pollination for S. miyabeana. Because the efficiency of wind pollination seemed to be more sensitive to fluctuating weather conditions than insect pollination, insect pollination was considered to play an assurance role for seed production in these willows.
40305712|Fluctuations in local weather conditions and other stochastic processes are important factors affecting species population persistence. We studied two differently sized populations of the rare and declining fern species Botrychium multifidum for 4 and 5 years, respectively. Individually marked plants in permanent plots were followed to detect trends in population size, reproductive success and dormancy in relation to local precipitation and temperature. Our applied logistic regression model suggests that the shortage of precipitation during summer decreases fertility in the next year in both populations. Invertebrate herbivory of the fertile part of the plant additionally diminishes the output of spores. We found the population size to be stable with a very low percentage of each population composed of juvenile plants. Stochastic processes and low recruitment could easily lead to the extinction of these populations.
20051065|This paper assesses the potential of large-scale aerial photographs for the identification of rain forest trees. Colour slides at 1: 3000 scale were acquired in French Guiana, above the canopy of a 25 ha study site where trees had already been identified. Firstly, the stereoscopic analysis of photographic prints served to establish a typology of the crowns, based on seven main classes of criteria: crown size, crown status, crown contour, crown architecture, foliage cover, foliage texture and colour, completed where possible by information on phenology. The terminology chosen was based on those proposed in previous studies. Secondly, a smaller area of 5 ha was delimited in the field, on which 15 tree categories (vernacular names) represented by 5 crowns or more on the photographs were selected. For each category, a standard crown was described using terminology previously defined. Twelve tree categories, including first and second class commercial timbers, displayed specific characteristics allowing them to be identified on aerial photographs. Further analyses will be undertaken in the future to measure the success of this identification method. This method may be applied for the recognition of particular species of interest: commercial, rare, endemic or key-stone species. Phenological data, as well as information on crown architectural development, can also be retrieved from aerial photographs, bringing new prospects for a better knowledge of crowns biology and their functional role in the forest ecosystem.
20146726| We analyzed sex ratio, growth rates, and spacing among individuals of Podocarpus nagi, a dioecious tree, on Mt. Mikasa, Nara City, Japan. The sex ratio of reproductive trees  5 cm in stem diameter at breast height (dbh, 130 cm above ground level) was significantly male-biased. The sex ratio was male-biased in the &lt 20 cm and  50 cm size classes, while it did not depart from 1:1 in the 20  dbh &lt 50 cm class. Growth rate varied with tree size in males but not in females. The precocity and vigor of males suggests that differences in reproductive costs between sexes induce the biased sex ratio. Random labeling tests on the positions of reproductive trees showed that in the &lt 30 cm class, males and females were distributed randomly and independently from each other. In the  30 cm class, males were significantly clumped, whereas females were randomly distributed. Males and females showed significant repulsion, i.e., a spatial segregation of sexes. Both intra- and intersexual effects on the growth rate of crowding by neighbors were significant for females, but not for males. Maximum competitive interference was observed at a distance of 5 m, which corresponded approximately to the radius of clumps of large males and to the significant repulsive distance between large males and females. These results suggest that sexual differences in sensitivity to local crowding are related to the formation of gender-dependent spatial patterns. Formation of female-repulsive male clumps and a male-biased sex ratio may intensify the decreased probability of regeneration near males, as suggested by the limited seed-dispersal range of this species, thereby promoting coexistence with other species. 
40540325|The relative importance of floral versus ecological isolation in preventing introgression remains unclear. This study examines whether ecological isolation can explain the continuing integrity of Silene dioica and S. latifolia where floral isolation is weak and hybrids are fully viable. Eighteen small replicate founder populations of 6 individuals (3 males and 3 females) of either S. latifolia, S. dioica or hybrids were created in woodland and in open sites in southern UK. Survival, reproduction and introgression of these populations were examined over 9 years. S. latifolia and hybrid plants suffered higher mortality than S. dioica in woodland. In open sites, there was extensive introgression, with few or no pure S. latifolia or S. dioica surviving by the end of the experiment. The experiment suggests that the integrity of S. dioica is maintained by its ability to survive in shaded habitats where S. latifolia and hybrids cannot persist. However, how S. latifolia survives as a distinct species in the study area remains a puzzle. Immigration from regions where S. latifolia occurs in isolation (i. e. largescale ecological isolation) may balance introgression in the study area.
24553725|Clonality as a plant growth strategy has been a successful adaptation contributing to clonal plants being the dominant vegetation in many ecosystems and has been implicated as a significant factor contributing to invasiveness. The objective of this study was to determine if Phalaris arundinacea, an invasive wetland plant, modifies its clonal growth behavior when grown in high resource conditions. When grown in ideal conditions (high soil-N and moisture), we hypothesized that along with an increase in tiller production and robustness (biomass per tiller), P. arundinacea would increase the spatial spread of tiller placement (distance from parent and daughters). To test this we conducted a greenhouse study in which we grew P. arundinacea seedlings under two soil-N levels (no nitrate addition or 40 g N m2 year1) at two soil moisture levels (dry or saturated) for 10 weeks and recorded the placement (angle and distance from the parent plant) of each tiller produced. Total aboveground and belowground biomass, shoot/root ratio, and biomass per tiller were measured at the conclusion of the experiment. Plants grown in saturated conditions produced significantly more tillers that were more widely dispersed. Surprisingly, soil-N did not significantly affect most characteristics of spatial pattern, though soil-N did affect biomass production, shoot/root ratio, and biomass per tiller. These results indicate soil moisture and soil-N affect different aspects of the clonal growth behavior of P. arundinacea in the early stage of colonization. This new information provides a mechanism to explain how P. arundinacea aggressively competes for space in wetland habitats.
20146710|Sierra Nevada forests have high understory species richness yet we do not know which site factors influence herb and shrub distribution or abundance. We examined the understory of an old-growth mixed-conifer Sierran forest and its distribution in relation to microsite conditions. The forest has high species richness (98 species sampled), most of which are herbs with sparse cover and relatively equal abundance. Shrub cover is highly concentrated in discrete patches. Using overstory tree cover and microsite environmental conditions, four habitats were identified; tree cluster, partial canopy, gap, and rock/shallow soil. Herb and shrub species were strongly linked with habitats. Soil moisture, litter depth and diffuse light were the most significant environmental gradients influencing understory plant distribution. Herb cover was most strongly influenced by soil moisture. Shrub cover is associated with more diffuse light, less direct light, and sites with lower soil moisture. Herb richness is most affected by conditions which influence soil moisture. Richness is positively correlated with litter depth, and negatively correlated with direct light and shrub cover. Disturbance or management practices which change forest floor conditions, shallow soil moisture and direct light are likely to have the strongest effect on Sierran understory abundance and richness.
20146675| Plants face different environmental pressures in different patches of vegetation mosaics, so their demography cannot be completely understood if it is not studied in each patch-type. Banded patterns of vegetation surrounded by bare areas occur in semiarid landscapes. At one level, two phases of the mosaic are the banded vegetationpatches (vegetation arcs) and the bare areas, but at another level two phases can be distinguished inside the vegetation arc. One phase (frontal zone) is always in the upslope boundary of the arc, has only herbs and it has been suggested that it functions as a colonization area, while the other one (central zone) is at the middle of the arcs and has both shrubs and herbs. The demography of a tussock grass (Hilaria mutica) growing in the two phases of the vegetation arcs was studied under the hypothesis that it will show the demographic parameters of a ruderal species in the frontal zone and those of a more competitive species in the central zone. Temporal variability was assessed through annual, average, periodic and stochastic matrices. -values are higher in the frontal than in the central zone, and lower in dry years than in years with moderate precipitation. The influence of the demographic processes on -values shows spatial and temporal variation. In dry years, -values are more sensible to stasis (permanence in the same size class) and retrogression (transition to a smaller size class) in both zones, whereas in years of moderate precipitation the influence of fecundity and growth increases in the frontal zone and the influence of stasis and retrogression continue to be the most important in the central zone. Variations in the demographic parameters observed in the frontal zone are evidences of a life history plasticity finely tuned with environmental variation, and these results support the hypothesis that frontal zones function as colonization areas. 
20050915|This study describes life history and population dynamics of the annual halophyte Suaeda maritima, at initial stages of seedling development, in salt-marshes of the Mont-Saint-Michel Bay. Effects of salinity on seed germination and seedling development were studied both in the laboratory and in the field. Salinity was measured as sediment electrical conductivity. Experiments in the laboratory showed that Suaeda maritima was relatively tolerant to salinity during the germination stage. In the field, germination occurred when soil salinity was minimal. Almost all seeds germinated in the field; this may explain the absence of a persistent seed bank. Salinity did not seem to affect the growth of seedlings either. Mortality in the field was attributed to physical factors such as anoxia during temporary immersion, burial by sediment and tidal uprooting. The intensity of these effects varied according to the location of Suaeda maritima seedlings: in hollows, along the edge of tidal creeks, in gaps among dense vegetation cover, or in pattern with Puccinellia maritima. Perennial vegetation did not restrict Suaeda maritima germination. In contrast, perennials such as Puccinellia maritima and Halimione portulacoides limited the development of Suaeda maritima seedlings since only a small number of this annual emerged beneath their canopies. The fate of seedlings depended to a great extent on the permeability of the perennial canopy to light. Thus, disturbance resulting in bare patches inside the perennial vegetation seemed essential for the development of this annual species. Suaeda maritima can grow in the presence of Puccinellia maritima so long as the latter present as an open matrix. Suaeda maritima may also benefit from protection against desiccation and tidal action where this occurs.
23267443|We examined general and family-specific patterns of vascular plant richness along a large elevational gradient (03,670 m a.s.l.), assessed the continuity of these patterns and analysed their potential underlying causes in a high diversity region of the Sierra Madre del Sur, Oaxaca, Mexico. We used a vascular plant database constructed previously. The gradient was divided into 18 200-m elevation belts. To examine elevational patterns of richness, we used both observed and estimated (interpolated) species richness, as well as genus and family observed richness, for each belt. A generalised linear model (GLM) was used to assess the effect of altitude on area-corrected species richness (standard area = 100 km 2 ), and a numerical classification of the elevational belts based on species richness was performed. Overall, richness at the three taxonomic levels decreased with elevation, but some individual families departed from this pattern. A sharp drop in species richness was observed at 1,800 m, and the dendrogram separated two elevational floristic groups at this elevation. The GLM revealed a significant negative effect of elevation on species richness. Despite this overall decreasing pattern for vascular plants along this extensive gradient, an examination of some family-specific patterns revealed the existence of other elevationdiversity relationships, indicating taxon-specific responses to elevation. The most noticeable discontinuity in species richness, at ca. 1,800 m, is likely related to a critical temperature isocline.
20050446|The loss of dry mass, nitrogen and phosphorus from shoot and root litter of mudflat annuals was examined in a series of experimental marshes in the Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada. Litter bags containing shoot material of three mudflat annuals (Aster laurentianus Fern., Atriplex patula L., and Chenopodium rubrum L.) were placed on the sediment surface of the marshes under drawdown conditions. In addition, litter bags containing root material of these three species were shallowly buried. Approximately 70% and 50% of both shoot and root litter, respectively, was still present after one year in the field. During the second year when the marshes were flooded, shoot and root litter lost an additional 20% and 0% of their mass, respectively. Except for Chenopodium roots, which accumulated nitrogen and phosphorus during both years, shoot and root litter lost from 0 to 50% of their nitrogen and phosphorus early in the first year, with levels generally remaining constant through the remainder of the study period. Our results indicate that mudflat annual litter decomposed slowly and would provide abundant habitat for aquatic invertebrates when these marshes were reflooded. However, most nutrient loss took place in the first year when the litter was unflooded, with little loss occurring in the second year when flooded.
40540355|Expansion of shrubs into grasslands is often accompanied by a reduction in understory light and an associated reduction of shade-intolerant species. However, effects of specific canopy architectural characteristics on the light environment under shrub thickets are unknown. Our objective was to determine what characteristics of canopy architecture most influence understory light in monospecific shrub thickets. We quantified understory light and canopy architecture for five shrub species in the eastern United States that have a history of expansion, and we used multiple regression to determine which canopy characteristics best predicted light attenuation and relative contribution of sunflecks. Measurements included leaf angle, leaf azimuth, branch bifurcation ratio, leaf area index (LAI), canopy depth (the vertical distance from the bottommost leaf to the top of the canopy), and leaf area density (LAD) as well as understory photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD). The best predictor of light attenuation and the occurrence of sunflecks for all species was canopy depth. Multiple leaf and plant-level traits were correlated with canopy depth but not with LAI or LAD. The invasive shrub Elaeagnus umbellata had the lowest understory light levels of the species examined although LAI values S. T. Brantley  D. R. Young Department University, Richmond, VA 23284, USA e-mail: dryoung@ vcu. edu for Morella cerifera and Rhododendron maximum were higher. Branch bifurcation ratios for E. umbellata were significantly higher than for other species and this likely contributed to the differences in light attenuation and suppression of sunflecks. The potential of shrubs to intercept light is primarily dependent on vertical distribution of leaves in the canopy which is itself correlated with fine-scale, species-specific variations in leaf display.
40212952|The quality of the aquatic environment and macrophytes were surveyed in the case of the remarkable karstic river Ljubljanica s. lat. (Slovenia). It consists of seven intermittent and permanent surface watercourses, connected by groundwater flows. We assessed 11 parameters describing the land use beyond the riparian zone, the structure of the riparian zone and stream channel morphology, as well as the distribution and abundance of macrophytes. The intermittent watercourses exhibited a relatively high level of naturalness, because the variable water regime prevents intensive human activity. Greater influence of the human activity on the permanent watercourses resulted in a modified riverine environment. The share of different ecological groups of macrophytes, i. e. submerged, emerged and amphibious species, reflected the water regimes of the different watercourses. A total of 62 taxa of macrophytes were identified in about 100 km of length examined. Of these, amphibious macrophytes dominated as a consequence of intermittent water regime. The relationship between environmental parameters and macrophytes, and the effects of the intermittent hydrology were investigated. All environmental parameters explained 28% of the variance in the distribution of macrophytes in watercourses, as determined by canonical correspondence analysis. Completeness of the riparian zone, bank undercutting and sediment accumulation were found to be the most influential.
20050824|A greenhouse study was conducted to determine the effects of increasing concentrations of salt (NaCl) solutions applied to the soil containing mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants of the leguminous species Strophostyles helvola (L.) Ell. The dry weight of roots and shoots and leaf chlorophyll content of S. helvola plants decreased with an increase in the concentrations of salt solutions. Although increasing salt concentrations promoted hyphal growth in mycorrhizal plants, the percent uncolonized root surface, arbuscules and vesicles decreased. An increase in the concentration of salt solutions did not decrease the number of root nodules. The data clearly showed evidence of significantly higher chlorophyll content, shoot dry weight and number of root nodules in mycorrhizal than non-mycorrhizal plants. High salt concentrations had a negative effect on the growth of S. helvola plants but the negative effects were partially mitigated by the presence of mycorrhizal fungi.
41508670|The capacity of many plant species to resprout in fire-prone shrublands is thought to engender persistence, yet management concerns exist for the long-term persistence of some resprouting species given anthropogenic impacts including shortened fire intervals, long periods of fire exclusion, and/or fires of increasingly high severity. We explored the potential demographic effects of different fire interval regimes on lignotuberous resprouter species using the last fire interval for 36 sites (33 experimental fires, 3 wildfires) in biodiverse SW Australian shrublands, spanning an interval range of 3-42 years. Mortality and regrowth 1 year following the last fire was assessed for >7,000 tagged individuals from 20 shrub and sub-shrub species. Using generalized linear mixed effect models, we estimated the influence of fire interval (and selected fire and environmental covariates) on mortality and regrowth rates across all species, and individually for the four most common species. The overall model, as well as the models for three of the four most common species (Banksia attenuata, Melaleuca leuropoma, and M. systena, but not Hibbertia hypericoides) supported the hypothesis of increased mortality at short and long fire intervals, most likely due to total non-structural carbohydrate (TNC) and bud-bank limitation, respectively. However, no relationship between regrowth rate and fire interval was detected, suggesting that increased mortality at short (3-5 year) fire intervals may not be due solely to resource (TNC) limitation. Results show that lignotuberous resprouters are potentially vulnerable to population decline through attrition of mature plants under both shortened and lengthened fire interval regimes.
20051043|This paper gives, for the first time, a complete history of rain forest canopy access, from the early years to the present day. This review is primarily from the European perspective, and explores the development of canopy access techniques, from 'low-tech' methods such as single rope technique, to 'hi-tech' approaches such as canopy cranes. In recent years, canopy science has moved away from pure exploration (the 'Wonderland' phase) to tackling the practicalities of rigorous canopy research ('Reality'), and the underlying emphasis is now shifting from access to the upper canopy per se to conducting replicative and manipulative science. The paper concludes by advocating the integration of many access techniques (both hi-tech and low-tech) at selected research sites, and certain neglected key areas of research are highlighted, including the comparison of adjacent primary and logged forests.
20146387|While there is considerable knowledge of the effects of enhanced levels of ultraviolet radiation (UV) on plant species, much less is known of the importance of ambient levels of solar UV, particularly on natural plant communities. Effects of ambient solar UV radiation on a natural sub-Arctic heath community were investigated in a three year UV exclusion experiment in northern Sweden (68 N). UV transparent and UV opaque (excluding &lt 400 nm) plexiglas screens were placed over vegetation for three years to determine ambient solar UV effects on growth, reproduction and phenology of the three dominant dwarf shrub species, Vaccinium uliginosum, V. vitisidaea and Empetrum hermaphroditum. Additionally, effects of ambient solar UV radiation on leaf protection from UV-B were assessed through measurements of leaf UV-B absorbing compounds. Flowering and berry production by V. uliginosum were greatly increased (by five and 15 fold) in plots receiving ambient solar UV compared to those where solar UV had been excluded for three years. However, solar UV had no effect on stem growth, senescence and cover of the dwarf shrub species studied. It was therefore concluded that sub-Arctic dwarf shrubs are generally tolerant of ambient solar UV. Counterintuitively, ambient solar UV radiation reduced the levels of UV-B absorbing compounds in both Vaccinium species suggesting a reduction in protection provided. This indicates that measurements of leaf UV-B absorbing compounds do not necessarily provide a good indicator of plant tolerance to UV.
20050529|Spatial patterns of woody individuals were studied in a semi-arid savanna of West Africa located in Burkina Faso at and around 1412 N and 227 W. The study was based upon a 10.24 ha plot within which individuals were mapped. Spatial pattern analysis was carried out using second order characteristics of point processes as K functions and pair correlations. The overall density amounted to 298 individuals
40540356|The effect of fragmentation on different life forms within tropical forest plant communities is poorly understood. We studied the effect of degree of fragmentation and surrounding matrix on trees, lianas, shrubs and epiphytes in tropical forest fragments of Kodagu, Western Ghats, India. These fragments exist as sacred groves amidst a highly modified agricultural landscape, and have been preserved by the religious sentiments of local communities. Plants were sampled at two sites in continuous forests and 11 forest fragments. A total of 122 species of trees, 29 species of lianas, 60 species of shrubs and 66 species of epiphytes were recorded. Trees exhibited a significant species-area relationship (R = 0.74). Richness estimates after controlling for stem density (rarefaction) revealed that observed species-area relationship was not an artefact of passive sampling. Variation in species richness of the other three groups was explained by stem density and structural diversity. Linear distance from the reserve forest did not explain any variation in species richness. All life forms exhibited significant nested pattern. Trees were nested along the area gradient while nestedness in the other three groups showed evidence in support of habitat nestedness. The four life forms thus responded variably to degree of fragmentation. Our study revealed that 74% of the regional diversity for trees was contributed by diversity among plots, highlighting the importance of inter-patch habitat diversity in maintaining the total regional species pool. We conclude that trees alone cannot serve as good indicator for taking appropriate conservation measures to mitigate species loss resulting from habitat fragmentation.
20050678|Sphagnum fuscum, S. magellanicum, S. angustifolium and S. warnstorfii were treated with N deposition rates (0, 10, 30 and 100
20051086|The purpose of this study was to investigate whether differences in canopy architecture due to the investigated species (planophile versus erectophile, single versus mixed canopies) or to UV-B effects on plant morphology, lead to differences in UV-B and UV-B/PAR doses within canopies. The development of a very small (10 mm diameter) UV-B and PAR sensor on a long 5 mm wide stick allowed us to measure the penetration of UV-B and PAR in single and mixed canopies of the grass Dactylis glomerata and white clover, Trifolium repens. The plants were grown in greenhouses covered with different thicknesses (3 and 5 mm) of UV-transmittant plexi (12 and 18% UV-B exclusion). For clover, a planophile vegetation, radiation penetration was very low for both UV-B and PAR. UV-B penetration was much less than for PAR, resulting in low UV-B/PAR ratio's within the canopy. This is explained by the low UV-B transmittance of the leaves (&lt0.1%) in combination with the planophile leaves. In the grass species, both UV-B and PAR penetrated much deeper into the canopy due to the erectophile structure. The difference between UV-B and PAR penetration was generally quite small except in very tall canopies. The mixed species canopies showed results comparable to the clover canopies. Due to the strongly increased grass growth in these plots, light penetration was generally much lower than in the single species cultures. The increased growth of grass in these mixed plots could be linked to the lower UV-B/PAR dose they received. In plots grown under the higher UV-B level there was a relative decrease in UV-B/PAR ratio within the canopy for both species, compared to canopies from the lower UV-B greenhouses. This could not be explained by changes in leaf angle or biomass, but might be linked to the increase in leaf transmittance of PAR.
40212961|The distribution and spatial pattern of plants in tropical forests have important implications for how species interact with each other and their environments. In this article we use a large-scale permanent census plot to address if the coexistence of 16 co-occurring species of Myristicaceae is aided by topographic and light gradient niche partitioning. We used a second order spatial pattern analysis based on Ripley's K function to describe species' distributions and associations among species, and a torus translation procedure to test for associations with three topographically defined habitats. A majority of species displayed spatial aggregation and over half had one or more significant habitat associations. Four species were associated with the ridge habitat, four species with slope habitat, and two with valley habitat. Seven other species showed no habitat association. Within each habitat group, species exhibited a variety of distributions in relation to light availability. However, habitat associations were largely unexplained by differential rates of mortality, growth or recruitment over a 5-year interval. We conclude that although in principle partitioning of the topographic and light environments may double or treble the number of species able to coexist, there is no evidence that partitioning of physical habitats can explain the coexistence of all 16 of these closely related species.
20147012|Many exotic plants utilize early successional traits to invade disturbed sites, but in some cases these same species appear able to prevent re-establishment of late-successional and native species. Between 2002 and 2004, I studied 25 fields that represent a 52-year chronosequence of agricultural abandonment in a shrub-steppe ecosystem in Washington State, USA, to determine if exotic plants behaved as early successional species (i.e., became less abundant over time) or if they established persistent communities. Exotics maintained dominance in tilled (73% of total cover) relative to never-tilled (6% of total cover) fields throughout the chronosequence. Exotic community composition, however, changed on annual and decadal timescales. Changes in exotic community composition did not reflect typical successional patterns. For example, some exotic perennial species (e.g., Centaurea diffusa and Medicago sativa) were less common and some exotic annual species (e.g., Sissymbrium loeselii and S. altissimum) were more common in older relative to younger fields. Exotics in the study area appeared to establish communities that are resistant to re-invasion by natives, resilient to losses of individual exotic species, and as a result, maintain total exotic cover over both the short- and long-term: exotics replaced exotics. Exotics did not invade native communities and natives did not invade exotic communities across the chronosequence. These results suggest that, in disturbed sites, exotic plants establish an alternative community type that while widely variable in composition, maintains total cover over annual and decadal timescales. Identifying alternative state exotic communities and the mechanisms that explain their growth is likely to be essential for native plant restoration.
20051172|Grass species frequently show marked intraspecific variation in morphology and tolerance to defoliation. Remarkably, most of this evidence comes from grasslands with long evolutionary history of grazing. Here, we explore the intraspecific variation in grazing tolerance and morphometric traits associated with grazing avoidance of Paspalum dilatatum (Poir.), a grass from the Flooding Pampa (Argentina), where grazing is a novel disturbance in evolutionary time. We performed a clipping experiment in a greenhouse with two populations from sites with contrasting short term grazing regime: continuous grazing and 20 year-old grazing exclosure. The populations did not differ in their tolerance to clipping, and showed minor differences in the way clipping affected plant height, a trait associated with grazing avoidance. Our results indicate that there are exceptions to the generalized findings of high levels of intraspecific variation in grazing resistance among populations of grasses. These exceptions may be associated to evolutionary history of grazing.
20050543|The effects of sand burial on seedling emergence, growth, and reproduction of the annual dune grass Triplasis purpurea (Walt.) Chapm. were examined. This species matures heteromorphic seeds on panicles enclosed by leaf sheaths along tiller nodes in a characteristic pattern: seeds at the lower nodes are heaviest, whilst those at the upper nodes are lightest. Field excavation of seedlings revealed that seedlings can emerge from seeds buried to 4 cm. In one experiment in an incubator, seeds collected from the upper and lower tiller nodes of glasshouse-grown parental plants were buried in sand at depths of 0, 3, and 6 cm. As expected, the effects of seed depth on seedling growth were due to delayed emergence for seedlings from buried seeds. However, seedlings from the larger seeds from the lower nodes of parental plants had significantly greater dry mass than those from the lighter seeds from upper nodes. Because lower node seeds are the most likely to become buried by sand in nature, the seed heteromorphism may be adaptive in the coastal environment. A second experiment involved the burial of seedlings to 0, 50, or 100% of their height. Although most seedlings did not survive complete burial (100% height), for partially buried seedlings (50% height) there was high survival and a marked stimulation of growth and eventual reproduction compared to unburied seedlings. This stimulation could be linked to increased root growth for seedlings that had been buried. The ability to respond positively to sand accumulation may represent an adaptation to the dynamic dune environment.
20050423|Increases in UV-B radiation reaching the earth as a result of stratospheric ozone depletion will most likely accompany increases in atmospheric CO concentrations. Many studies have examined the effects of each factor independently, but few have evaluated the combined effects of both UV-B radiation and elevated CO. In general the results of such studies have shown independent effects on growth or seed yield. Although interspecific variation is large, high levels of UV-B radiation tends to reduce plant growth in sensitive species, while CO enrichment tends to promote growth in most C species. However, most previous studies have not looked at temporal effects or at the relationship between photosynthetic acclimation to CO and possible photosynthetic limitations imposed by UV-B radiation. Elevated CO may provide some protection against UV-B for some species. In contrast, UV-B radiation may limit the ability to exploit elevated CO in other species. Interactions between the effects of CO enrichment and UV-B radiation exposure have also been shown for biomass allocation. Effects on both biomass allocation and photosynthetic acclimation may be important to ecosystem structure in terms of seedling establishment, competition and reproductive output. Few studies have evaluated ecosystem processes such as decomposition or nutrient cycling. Interactive effects may be subtle and species specific but should not be ignored in the assessment of the potential impacts of increases in CO and UV-B radiation on plants.
20146841|Spatial patterns of understory plant distribution can reflect availability of suitable abiotic microsites. Hydrastis canadensis is a native, herbaceous perennial whose distribution may be constrained by microsite availability. We planted 5 transects each on south- and north-facing cove hillsides with clonally derived rhizomes of H. canadensis. Transects were spaced 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 m from a third-order stream. Because the transect 20 m from the stream on the south-facing hillside was adjacent to a natural H. canadensis patch, this transect was postulated to represent suitable habitat. We tested the effects of aspect and distance from stream on phytometer growth measures (survival, leaf area, and both rhizome and leaf area relative growth rates). We also monitored temperature, humidity, and light, then quantified environmental distances for these measures between each transect location and the transect in suitable habitat. Plant growth measures were then regressed on these distances to test hypotheses about factor effects. Neither survival nor relative growth rates depended on aspect or distance from the stream, although leaf area was greater on the north-facing aspect in both years and increased with proximity to the stream in 2003. Rhizome relative growth rate did not depend on any of the environmental distance measures, although leaf area change depended on cumulative light, increasing as the environmental distance from the suitable site increased. The relatively weak association between environmental variation across the forested cove reinforces other studies suggesting that H. canadensis has a relatively broad ecological niche, and its rarity is unlikely due to lack of availability of suitable habitat.
20050799|The clonal structure of Rubus chamaemorus populations was investigated using DNA fingerprinting. The PCR-based methods included the use of 10-base RAPD primers and 16-base simple sequence repeat primers. In the hybridization method variation was studied using hypervariable multilocus probes, one derived from the M13 bacteriophage and the other a synthetic (AC)/(TG) polynucleotide. Although R. chamaemorus expresses clear variation in morphology, the level of genetic differentiation appears to be fairly low. The observed numbers of clones in the three populations examined in Finland varied from 2 to 4. The total number of genotypes across populations was 5, of which one was unique. The results obtained using the two fingerprinting methods were comparable but lead to a slightly different grouping of clones.
40305583|Montane conifers of western North America commonly colonize mineral surfaces resulting from landslides, lahars, mudflows, and rock avalanches. This colonization can include shadetolerant conifers that may eventually dominate the forest in a pattern termed "direct" succession. Documenting examples of this long-term successional process are useful for identifying alternative successional trajectories and indicating potential controlling mechanisms for subsequent experimental analysis. This study (1) analyzes the 1992 status of the conifer colonization on the coarse-textured surface of a 1650 AD rock avalanche in northern California and (2) measures individual growth and survivorship in permanent plots between 1992 and 2003. Increment cores of large trees indicated initial conifer colonization before 1700 AD with continuous subsequent colonization. Mean conifer density in 1992 was 725 (SD = 747) ha with densities increasing with decreasing rock sizes. Densities were not correlated with distances to possible seed sources. Median heights were <1 m, and the mean proportional height growth rate for healthy individuals was 0.0166 year. The mortality rate for individuals 0.1-m tall was <0.007 year. The conifers were more numerous than shrubs, and there was little apparent evidence of facilitation or inhibition of conifers. The species assemblage is mostly (89%) Abies concolor, Pinus monticola, and Pinus ponderosa individuals dispersed across an elevation range of 1870-2040 m a. s. 1. This is an atypical species mix for these elevations in this location, and this mix is not readily predicted from species properties such as seed mass, seed flight distance, or drought tolerance.
20050957|In southern African savannas, bush encroachment is a major problem for range managers. However, little is understood of the actual regeneration processes leading to it, and in particular the role of soil seed banks. The horizontal (between microsites) and vertical (with depth in litter and soil) distribution of soil seed banks of the microphyllous woody species, Acacia tortilis, A. nilotica and Dichrostachys cinerea (all legumes of the Mimosoideae), were quantified in an area with low intensity grazing (reserve), and a bordering cattle farm with high intensity grazing (farm). Species differed in seed bank densities between microsites and sites. Seed densities for all species were highest below parent tree canopies and decreased with distance beyond the canopy, and with soil depth. D. cinerea had the smallest seed bank associated with parent trees, particularly on the farm (8 vs. 1643 seeds/tree on the reserve), A. tortilis had the largest (6357, 31910), with A. nilotica intermediate (1789, 1906). The proportion of current (recently fallen) versus old ( 1 year old) seeds differed between species and sites. These species form at least short-term persistent seed banks with the old seeds largely representing the persistent seed bank. Seed densities in the open (inter-canopy) and those dispersed under either of the other two (non-parental) study species were much lower than those associated with parent trees. The latter were mostly found under the acacias (singlestemmed) rather than D. cinerea (multistemmed). Total seed store per parent plant increased with plant size (best fits were mostly power curves of canopy area). A large proportion of intact seeds were viable, namely 81-84% for A. tortilis, 68-77% for A. nilotica and 63-78% for D. cinerea, with no differences between sites. Viability tended to increase with depth of burial, except for A. nilotica seeds at the 3-5 cm depths on the farm. At the landscape scale there were 1.5 million and 140 000 A. tortilis seeds/ha on the reserve and farm respectively, with corresponding values of 2000 and 31 000 for D. cinerea, and 23 000 and 86 000 for A. nilotica.
20146563|As a result of predicted regional climatic changes the need to select for the more drought-tolerant genotypes (ecotypes) among Mediterranean conifers has become clear. Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Mill.) seems to be one of the most drought-tolerant pine species. Nevertheless, the existence of geographical trends in their genetic differentiation indicates potentially large differences in drought-tolerance among provenances. This assumption was verified by the finding of large variation among provenances in their internal water relations. Hence, the aim of this study was to compare the ecophysiological behaviour of several Aleppo pine provenances under contrasting climatic conditions. Growth parameters (height and diameter) and survival rate were measured in two provenance trials, one planted under sub-desertic conditions at the northern edge of the Negev desert, and the second under thermo-Mediterranean climatic conditions in the central coastal plains, Israel. Ecophysiological parameters such as: predawn needle water potential, sap flow in the xylem (i.e. transpiration), photosynthesis and water-use efficiency were measured in trees of selected provenances. The results suggest that it is not possible to predict provenance performance under harsh conditions from their performance under more favourable ones. Therefore, selection must be carried out under the exact conditions in which the trees from the resultant selection will be planted. The present study clearly emphasises the need for broad selection programs of P. halepensis.
20051218|The germination requirements, dormancy cycle and longevity of nine Rumex species were studied in field conditions and laboratory experiments to show the adaptations of the related species to their specific habitat. Within one genus, rather striking differences were observed in germination ecology. However, the closely related species, R. acetosa and R. scutatus, are very similar: they fruit in early summer; their seeds can germinate immediately after dispersal, and they are nondormant and short-lived. R. acetosella also has fruits in summer, but the seeds do not germinate the first season after dispersal. They are long-lived, but buried seeds do not show a dormancy cycle; they might germinate in different seasons after exposure to light. Seeds of four species (R. conglomeratus, R. maritimus, R. sanguineus and R. crispus) are long-lived and undergo a seasonal dormancy cycle, with a low level of dormancy in winter and early spring and a deep dormancy in summer as was already known for R. obtusifolius. These seeds are shed in the autumn, and they germinate mainly in the spring in consecutive years. R. maritimus also germinates in summer and autumn on drying muddy soils. The seeds of R. hydrolapathum only germinate on waterlogged soils, which explains its growth at the edge of streams and ponds. Its seeds are rather short-lived. The seeds of the species on very wet places require a higher temperature for germination.
41508817|In this study, replacement of dominant populations (Phragmites australis and Phalaris arundinacea) in the plant community succession process in the Zhenjiang Waterfront Wetland was approached from three aspects: growth, photosynthesis, and specific competitive characteristics. The productivity of Phragmites, based on intrinsic rate of increase and environmental carrying capacity of the several chosen growth indices (plant length, sheath height, and biomass), was significantly higher than that of Phalaris. Phragmites had a higher photosynthetic rate than Phalaris. However, Phalaris had a markedly lower light compensation point, which suggested that it was capable of better utilization of weak light. This possibly might account for its survival beneath Phragmites. At three different coverage gradients, the relative yield total was greater than 1, indicating a certain degree of complementary resource utilization via niche separation between both species. Significant differences in the competition ratio of both species indicated a superiority of Phragmites over Phalaris in terms of competitive capability. Thus, the Phragmites population tended to exclude the Phalaris population and became the mono-dominant population in the community succession process. For Phalaris, traits such as its better utilization of weak light, its complementary resource utilization, and a partial separation of growth period compared to Phragmites prevented complete replacement of its population to some degree. In this particular study area in the Zhenjiang Waterfront Wetland, the hydrological conditions of the river beach determined by its elevation possibly acted as the dominant regulator of the plant succession process.
20051083|We report a long-term experiment on the photosynthetic response of natural vegetation of Deschampsia antarctica (Poaceae) and Turgidosculum complicatulum (Lichenes) to altered UV-B levels on Lonie Island, Antarctica. UV-B above the vegetation was reduced by filter screens during two seasons. Half of the screens were transparent to UV-A and UV-B (ambient treatment) or absorbing UV-B and part of the UV-A (below-ambient treatment). Half of the wedge-shaped filters had side walls leading to an enhancement of the daily mean temperature in summer by 2-4 C, simulating rising mean air temperature on the Antarctic Peninsula. The other half of the filters were without side walls resulting in close-to-ambient temperature underneath. Plots without filters served as controls. UV-B supplementation of an extra 1.3 kJ UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math> was achieved using UV-mini-lamp systems during 15 days in the second season. We found no evidence that altered incident UV-B levels and temperature had an effect on maximum photosystem II efficiency (<tex-math>$F_{v}/F_{m}$</tex-math>) and effective photosystem II efficiency (F/<tex-math>$F_{m}$</tex-math>) in both species. UV-B reduction did not influence contents of chlorophyll, carotenoids and methanol-soluble UV absorbing compounds in D. antarctica. Flowering shoot length of D. antarctica was not affected by UV-B reduction. Temperature enhancement tended to result in longer inflorescence axes. Results of two austral summer seasons of UV-reduction in natural stands of D. antarctica and T. complicatulum suggest that current ambient levels of UV-B do not have a direct effect on the photosynthetic performance and pigment contents of these species. Cumulative effects on growth have not been recorded after two years but can not be excluded on a longer term.
41508769|Since the 1950s, agricultural intensification has affected the structure and functioning of ecological systems including wet grasslands. Our study site, a wet grassland near Tebo, Czech Republic, was historically a sedge meadow, but increased nutrient additions, a long-lasting flood in 2002 and changed mowing patterns resulted in domination by Phalaris arundinacea. The aim of the study was to determine how different nutrient conditions may affect plant structure and production in a wet grassland used for hay production. Species composition and percent cover were determined from line intercepts. Aboveground biomass was harvested six times each in 2007 and 2008 and primary production then calculated. Ingrowth core bags were used to determine belowground production. Aboveground production was two times greater in the high nutrient versus the low nutrient area in both years, while belowground production was very similar. The high nutrient area was still dominated by P. arundinacea, but Carex gracilis was now a co-dominant in the low nutrient area. However, other factors, such as water level and mowing regime, may interact with nutrient level to govern wet grassland structure and function.
40305558|Invasive populations often grow more vigorously than conspecific populations in the native range. This has frequently been attributed to evolutionary changes resulting either from founder effects, or from natural selection owing to enemy release. Another mechanism contributing to evolutionary change has largely been neglected in the past: Many invasive plant species do actually descend from cultivated plants and were therefore subject to breeding, including hybridization and artificial selection. In a common garden experiment, we compared invasive Central European populations of the ornamental shrub, Mahonia, with native populations of its putative parental species, Mahonia aquifolium and M. repens, from North America. We hypothesized that plants of invasive populations show increased growth and retained high levels of heritable variation in phenotypic traits. Indeed, invasive Mahonia plants grew larger in terms of stem length, number of leaves and aboveground biomass than either of the two native species, which did not differ significantly from each other. Since there are no hints on release of invasive Mahonia populations from natural enemies, it is likely that hybridization and subsequent selection by breeders have lead to an evolutionary increase of plant vigour in the introduced range. Further on, heritable variation was not consistently reduced in invasive populations compared with populations of the two native species. We suggest that interspecific hybridization among the Mahonia species has counteracted the harmful effects of genetic bottlenecks often associated with species introductions. Based on this case study, we conclude that, more attention has to be paid on the role of plant breeding when assessing the mechanisms behind successful plant invasions in future.
20146667|The origin and natural range of the Stone pine (Pinus pinea L.) has been questioned for more than a century. In this work, we focus the investigation on one of the most important and controversial regions, viz., the Iberian Peninsula and, specifically, the Huelva and Cadiz populations in Andalusia, one of the most representative population cores. Although some authors maintain that it is an autochthonous Iberian species, most of them consider it to be exotic. From this idea, many works have been done and a sintaxonomic scheme has been created, which is accepted by the majority of the scientific community, not including Pinus pinea, nor its formations, since they are considered as man-induced forest crops. However, Stone has been present for several thousand years in the Iberian Peninsula and in the territory studied, as several paleobotanic and historical data show, proving that Pinus pinea is an autochthonous species of this region. This is a clear consequence to the field of geobotany, since -- at least -- the Stone pine woodlands from the Iberian Southeast must be considered as communities predominated by an autochthonous species that must be included in the sintaxonomichal schemes.
23500358|Lantana camara L. (Verbenaceae) is a weed of great significance in Australia and worldwide, but little is known about connections among components of its life history. We document over a 3-year period, the links between L. camara seed-bank dynamics and its above-ground growth, including size asymmetry in four land-use types (a farm, a hoop pine plantation and two open eucalypt forests) invaded by the weed near Brisbane, Queensland Australia. Seed-bank populations varied appreciably across sites and in response to rainfall and control measures, and they were higher ( 1,000 seeds/m 2 ) when annual rainfall was 1530 % below the long-term yearly average. Fire reduced seed-bank populations but not the proportion germinating (68 %). Nearly a quarter of fresh seeds remain germinable after 3 years of soil burial. For small seedlings (<10 cm high), the expected trade-offs in two life-history traitssurvival and growthdid not apply; rather the observed positive association between these two traits, coupled with a persistent seed-bank population could contribute to the invasiveness of the plant. Relationships between absolute growth rate and initial plant size (crown volume) were positively linear, suggesting that most populations are still at varying stages of the exponential phase of the sigmoid growth; this trend also suggests that at most sites and despite increasing stand density and limiting environmental resources of light and soil moisture, lantana growth is inversely size asymmetric. From the observed changes in measures of plant size inequality, asymmetric competition appeared limited in all the infestations surveyed.
41508775|Developing a strategy for evidence-based conservation is often problematic where a given habitat is found on relatively few small sites. Here, we investigate the important environmental variables that control species -diversity in wet mesotrophic grasslands in lowland England. We analysed data on species richness and three soils variables from 10 mesotrophic grasslands to test the following hypothesis: is species diversity related to these soil factors, and if so, which is the most important? Generalised linear modelling was used to derive minimum adequate models of these relationships. The analysis identified degree of waterlogging and its interaction with both soil available phosphorus and soil pH as significant. Species diversity decreased with increasing waterlogging and available phosphorus. If species richness is to be conserved in these mesotrophic grasslands, it would be best done by maintaining low levels of waterlogging (0-1 m weeks), and low available phosphorus concentrations (< 10 g P g). However, this approach may predicate against specialist wetland species. Our results will help develop sound conservation strategies for these mesotrophic grasslands, and points the way for further investigative research.
40305584|Early succession on large landslides in highly humanized areas that have a tropical dry climate is not well studied. This study documented vegetation recovery during the first 4 years after disturbance at a landslide on Casita Volcano, Nicaragua. We aimed to determine the main pathways and causes of change in community features, such as richness, biovolume, and species composition and verify the role played by environmental heterogeneity. Data consisting on number, covers and mean height of woody species and several abiotic factors related to fertility and stability of substrates were obtained from permanent plots in previously defined zones. Pathways of early succession were highly contingent on abiotic heterogeneity and landscape context and were mainly controlled by abiotic factors associated with fertility of substrates, and incidence of human disturbances. Those results might form the basis of a model of early succession on landslides located in densely populated areas within tropical dry ecosystems. Our results suggest that, rather than focusing research on large-scale disturbances, the study of succession in landslides of the type that occurred on Casita Volcano must point towards the response of ecosystems to a much more complex disturbance regime, in which human-induced disturbances play a major role.
20051219|The production of plant macroremains was studied in a conifer forest two months after it burned in 1996 in northern Qubec. The proportions of various types of charred and uncharred pieces (needles, cones and wood) produced by black spruce (Picea mariana) and jack pine (Pinus banksiana) were determined by sampling around individual trees. Both species produced equivalent masses of charred material, but pieces of wood charcoal from jack pine are generally larger that those of black spruce. The proportion of charred versus uncharred needles is the best indicator of the species dominance in the forest. Although the fall of uncharred needles is delayed from the time of a fire, they contribute to more than half of all remains produced. Jack pine cones remain on the tree for a long time after a fire, while charred cones of black spruce are dehiscent (cones come off the branches easily). Trees are poor wood charcoal producers compared to undergrowth shrubs. As a result, the macroremains assemblage associated with a fire event is made up of large amount of uncharred material from trees and a large proportion of charred pieces produced by undergrowth vegetation. Modern assemblages of plant macroremains indicate that in order to reconstruct past vegetation associated with fire disturbance, it is important to distinguish between the various types of remains, because wood charcoal is mainly produced by material that is already dead.
20146673|Fire modifies the germination of seeds of numerous species. One of the fire factors that cause these modifications is the ash. This study analysed the germination of seeds of Pinus sylvestris L., Pinus nigra Arn. Pinus radiata D. Don and Pinus pinaster Aiton, subjected to different ash treatments, and the development of seedlings that grew in these conditions for 14 weeks. We obtained the ash by completely burning leaves and small twigs from the most abundant woody species in populations of pines. The ash treatments applied were as follows: Control (without ash), Low (half of the amount registered in a fire), Medium (equal to the amount registered in a fire) and High (double the amount registered in a fire). Germination took place on paper inside Petri dishes and in soil, and growth was only analysed for the plants that grew in the soil. For all species, and especially P. nigra, germination rate decreased as the amount of ash applied increased. The negative effects of the ash were more apparent following treatments in Petri dishes than in the soil. In the dishes, the average germination time varies little between the four species of pine. In soil, the average germination time is more prolonged, and only some differences were observed between treatments in P. sylvestris and P. nigra. In these species the high treatment significantly increased the average germination time. We found a greater sensitivity of P. sylvestris and P. nigra to the addition of ash, showing a higher seedling mortality rate. However, it appears that seedling development (length and weight) was not affected in any of the species through the addition of ash. These tests allow us to deduce that, in P. sylvestris, P. nigra, P. radiata and P. pinaster, the ash produced by forest fires has an inhibiting effect on germination and little effect on the development of seedlings in the first months of life.
40212908|Many species in Mediterranean-type ecosystems regenerate after fire by seed germination frorn soil seed banks. Seed bank dynamics of two of those obligate seeders, Cistus monspeliensis and Rosmarinus officinalis, were investigated in relation to stand age since fire in southwestern Portugal. Soil seed density, annual seed input, annual seed losses through germination and seed persistence were compared between species at Stands differing in age since fire (5, 10 and 35 years). Soil seed density and seed input increased over the first decade after fire and were lowest at 35-year-old Stands for C. monspeliensis. In R. officinalis, few seeds were produced and found in the soil at early stages, and maximum seed input and soil seed density were attained at 35-year-old Stands. Soil seed density was mostly driven by seed produetion in both species, which is largely dependent on plant traits and population dynamics related to fire. Overall, stand age since fire had a negligible effect on seed germination, seed persistence and viability. Ten to 39% of buried seeds were not recovered after 1 year, and viability of seeds recovered was 97-100% for C. monspeliensis and only 0-3% for R. officinalis. Variation in plant traits within the seeder syndrome was evidenced by this study. R. officinalis evidenced lower seed persistence, lower Proportion of viable seed produced and lower density of viable soil seed than C monspeliensis at any stage after fire. R. officinalis is expected to depend largely on previous year seed produetion for population replacement after fire.
40305698|Floral herbivores and pollinators are major determinants of plant reproduction. Because interaction of floral herbivores and pollinators occurs when herbivores attack the flowers in the bud and flower stages and because the compensatory ability of plants is known to differ according to the timing of herbivory, the effects of herbivory may differ according to its timing. In this study, we investigated the effects of floral herbivory at different stages on fruit production and seed/ovule ratio at two sites of large populations of the perennial herb, Iris gracilipes for 2 years. Herbivory at the bud and fruit stages both tended to have negative effects on fruit production, but the former caused more severe damage. On the other hand, herbivory at the flower stage tended not to have negative effects on fruit production because the degree of flower loss was smaller in the flower stage. Although herbivory decreased fruit production, flowers did not compensate for the damage by increasing the seed/ovule ratio because reproduction of I. gracilipes was limited by pollen availability rather than resources. These results indicate that floral herbivory at different stages has different effects on plant reproduction.
20051298|This study presents a quantitative partitioning of the variance in floristic data from grazed semi-natural vegetation of summer farms in Rldal, western Norway. The data consist of 189 taxa recorded in 107 4-m sample plots within 10 summer farms with different land-use histories. Thirty-five environmental variables were recorded, including altitude, slope, radiation, geology, soil chemistry, and past and present land-use. A series of (partial) canonical correspondence analyses (CCAs) were used to partition the total variation into within-farm and between-farm components, and to investigate the explanatory power of different groups of environmental and land-use variables at the two scales. The results show that: (1) although local gradients are of overriding importance for floristic composition, landscape-scale processes also contribute significantly to the observed patterns; (2) the measured land-use and environmental factors account for comparable amounts of compositional variance at the two scales; and (3) even if the relative contributions of the two classes of explanatory variables are comparable, details differ, showing that broad-scale environmental and land-use patterns are not just scaled-up versions of the fine-scale patterns or vice versa. These results support a multi-process view of vegetation patterns.
20050444|Strong winds are an important disturbance agent in northern Minnesota forests. On June 19, 1994, strong winds (&gt 160
20050844|Six management regimes were tested during 5 years in 18 abandoned ricefields in the Rhne delta, France: two artificial floodings for 6 months (winter and summer flooding, 10 cm deep) and a control only flooded by rain, each flooding treatment either with or without grazing by cattle and horses. In the absence of artificial flooding and in presence of grazing by domestic herbivores (i.e., maintaining the initial management since the abandonment) no significant change in plant communities was recorded after 5 years. The vegetation was mainly composed of halophytes (Salicornia fruticosa and Inula crithmoides). The removal of grazing led to the dominance of a salt tolerant grass: Aeluropus littoralis. Flooding favoured the dominance of clonal plants and led to a decrease in the number of species. In the ungrazed fields, changes in plant communities were related to the height of species with Bolboschoenus maritimus and Phragmites australis becoming dominant. When grazing was combined with summer flooding, B. maritimus dominated the first two years of the experiment, but with a low cover, and was replaced in the 3rd year by Typha angustifolia. When grazing was combined with winter and early spring flooding the competitive exclusion of B. maritimus by Juncus gerardii slowed the establishment of the former. The management of former ricefields led to the establishment and dominance of emergent species common to Mediterranean wetlands. Although it is subordinate to the maintenance of artificial flooding, the project may be considered a restoration (or a rehabilitation) of seasonally flooded marshes as original functions existing before the land was put under cultivation are re-established.
40305624|We provide total vascular plant species counts for three 1-ha plots in deciduous, semideciduous and evergreen forests in central Bolivia. Species richness ranged from 297 species and 22,360 individuals/ha in the dry deciduous forest to 382 species and 31,670 individuals/ha in the evergreen forest. Orchidaceae, Pteridophyta and Leguminosae were among the most species-rich major plant groups in each plot, and Peperomia (Piperaceae), Pleurothallis (Orchidaceae) and Tillandsia (Bromeliaceae), all epiphytes, were the most species-rich genera. This dominance of a few but very diverse and/or widespread taxa contrasted with the low compositional similarity between plots. In a neotropical context, these Central Bolivian forest plots are similar in total species richness to other dry deciduous and humid montane forests, but less rich than most Amazonian forests. Nevertheless, lianas, terrestrial herbs and especially epiphytes proved to be of equal or higher species richness than most other neotropical forest inventories from which data are available. We therefore highlight the importance of non-woody life-forms (especially epiphytes and terrestrial herbs) in Andean foothill forest ecosystems in terms of species richness and numbers of individuals, representing in some cases nearly 50% of the species and more than 75% of the individuals. These figures stress the need for an increased inventory effort on non-woody plant groups in order to accurately direct conservation actions.
23500330|Morphological and physiological plasticity are crucial attributes enabling plants to acquire resources from heterogeneous habitats. Although physiological integration can modify biomass partitioning in modules, especially when connected modules experience different conditions, its ecological importance has been largely overlooked. This experiment examined its effects on above- and belowground biomass partitioning by modules in the stoloniferous herb Glechoma hederacea. We studied how biomass allocation to roots by younger ramets was affected by connection to older ramets, and by nutrient conditions. A lower proportion of biomass was allocated to roots by younger ramets growing under low nutrient (LN) conditions when connected to older ramets in high nutrient (HN) conditions than when they were isolated, demonstrating localised modification of biomass partitioning due to physiological integration. The proportion of biomass allocated to roots by younger ramets was also lower when connected to older ramets in HN conditions than when connected to older ramets in LN conditions. Thus, the effect of integration on biomass partitioning depended on the nutrient conditions experienced by connected ramets. Such changes in biomass partitioning would result in more extensive stolon growth, and greater lateral displacement of new ramets. Understanding the ecological implications of phenotypic plasticity in plants will require further examination of the effects of physiological integration when connected modules experience contrasting growing conditions. This study demonstrates that such integration affects the biomass allocation strategy of connected ramets, enhancing resource acquisition in heterogeneous habitats. The widespread success of clonality in many communities is likely to be strongly promoted by this characteristic.
40540348|In groves of ectomycorrhizal caesalpiniaceous species in the Atlantic coastal forest of Central Africa the dominant tree Microberlinia bisulcata, which is shade-intolerant as a seedling but highly light-responding as a sapling, shows very limited regeneration. M. bisulcata saplings were mapped in an 82.5-ha plot at Korup and found to be located significantly far (> 40 m) away from adults, a result confirmed by direct testing in a second 56-ha plot. Sapling growth over 6 years, the distribution of newly emerging seedlings around adults, recruitment of saplings in a large opening and the outward extent of seedlings at the grove edge were also investigated. Two processes appear to have been operating: (1) a very strong and consistent restriction of the very numerous seedlings establishing after masting close to adults, and (2) a strong but highly spatially variable promotion of distant survivors by increased light from the deaths of large trees of species other than M. bisulcata (which itself has very low mortality rate). This leads to an apparent escape-from-adults effect. To maintain saplings in the shade between multiple short periods of release ectomycorrhizal connections to other co-occurring caesalp species may enable a rachet-type mechanism. The recorded sapling dynamics currently contribute an essential part of the longterm cycling of the groves. M. bisulcata is an interesting example of an important group of tropical trees, particularly in Africa, which are both highly light-demanding when young yet capable also of forming very large forest mergents. To more comprehensively explain tropical tree responses, the case is made for adding a new dimension to the trade-off concept of early tree light-response versus adult longevity.
20050693|Over three years the flowering phenology of individuals of Lotus corniculatus has been studied in relation to fruit set and seed predation to determine the relationships between four components of flowering time, plant size and reproductive success. Timings of first and peak flowering, and duration and synchrony of flowering differed between individuals in the same years. Between years, timing of first flowering was highly correlated for the same individuals, and was closely correlated with plant size and duration of flowering--larger plants flowered earlier and for a longer period. Peak flowering and synchrony were not correlated between-years for individuals. Fruit production and seed predation were correlated with some of the components of flowering phenology in some years, but not in others. The inconstancy of these relationships suggests that directional or stabilising selection is not acting consistently on the aspects of reproductive success studied in this work. The inconstancy of selection may result in the rather asynchronous flowering phenologies of individuals of L. corniculatus observed. We emphasize the importance of studying different components of flowering phenology in relation to individual plant size over several seasons. This work has shown that plant size not only has a direct effect on individual plant fecundity but also can influency flowering time and hence indirectly affect reproductive output.
20146533| Invasions by Phalaris arundinacea (reed canarygrass) preclude establishment of sedge meadow vegetation in restored wetlands in the midwest USA. To evaluate cover crops as a potential method of P. arundinacea control, we examined the effects of lowering light availability (from 600 to 200 and 10 mol m s) on competition between P. arundinacea and a common wetland sedge, Carex hystericina (porcupine sedge), in a greenhouse experiment. Lowering light availability substantially reduced P. arundinacea total biomass, by 52% at 200 mol m s and by 99% at 10 mol m s. However, shade also reduced C. hystericina total biomass, by 62% at 200 mol m s and by 99% at 10 mol m s. Further, shade did not favor C. hystericina in competition with P. arundinacea. Instead, C. hystericina biomass was reduced significantly more by competition with P. arundinacea in partial shade than in full sun (by 69% compared to 58%), while P. arundinacea biomass was reduced significantly less by competition with C. hystericina in partial shade than in full sun (by 42% compared to 66%). Lowering light availability with a cover crop in restored prairie pothole wetlands might slow P. arundinacea invasion, but is unlikely to improve sedge meadow establishment. 
20051111|Prior to anthropogenic disturbance, the floodplains of the Illinois River (USA) experienced moderate, cyclical flooding; a phenomenon termed a 'flood pulse.' Significant changes in the hydrology of the Illinois River caused by human alteration of the river channel resulted in a decline in populations of Boltonia decurrens, a native, herbaceous floodplain species of the Illinois River Valley and the demography of the species and underlying mechanisms causing the severe decline of B. decurrens are currently being studied. One component of the river flood pulse is the increased availability of nutrients in floodplain soils. We studied the effects of increased nutrient availability on growth and reproduction of B. decurrens and Aster pilosus, a species replacing B. decurrens in the floodplain. In this study, we examined the effects of a spring nutrient pulse and a late summer nutrient pulse, as compared to a control treatment, on rosettes of B. decurrens and A. pilosus grown in three soil types: sandy loam, silty loam and clay. Biomass, plant height, inflorescences per plant, seed production, and seed mass were measured and compared. Individuals of B. decurrens grown in sandy loam, the predominant soil type of the Illinois River Valley, had the greatest increase in growth and fecundity in response to nutrient pulsing. Total biomass and inflorescences per plant were significantly greater than the control regardless of the timing of the nutrient pulse. Aster pilosus did not exhibit a clear pattern of increased growth and fecundity in a specific soil type or pulse treatment. The early pulse treatment appeared to have a greater effect across the range of soil types than the late pulse treatment; however, it did not seem to influence any particular variable(s) that we measured. A pulse of nutrients benefits B. decurrens more than A. pilosus, particularly in sandy loam. The increased vigor and fecundity of B. decurrens with a nutrient pulse could be a factor contributing to population survival during the period between disturbance events.
40305608|Sex ratio and sexual dimorphism were studied in the dioecious tree Taxus baccata. We examined five populations of T. baccata in Poland and Ukraine to identify the differences between male and female individuals. The sex of all individuals, height and diameter, needle length and area, specific leaf area (SLA), the number of stomata rows, stomatal density, and content of carbon and nitrogen were measured to identify the differences between male and female individuals. The relationship between sex ratio and climatic conditions, age and population size were analysed using data collected from the field and the literature. Female trees were shorter than males, but needles of females were longer and had larger area. Although there were no differences among sexes in SLA, nitrogen and carbon concentration, we found a positive correlation between nitrogen concentration and SLA among females. The sex ratio changed with tree height within populations, and taller height classes were biased in favour of males. Regardless of population age, the percentage of females within populations was positively correlated with precipitation. Probably high reproductive effort caused female trees to lose in competition with males, and this loss may also be enhanced by lower drought tolerance in females and could contribute to risk of extinction for T. baccata. The continental geographic range of T. baccata may be restricted by limited occurrence of females, which demand higher water resources than males.
20050798|Despite the variety of statistical methods available for static modeling of plant distribution, few studies directly compare methods on a common data set. In this paper, the predictive power of Generalized Linear Models (GLM) versus Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) models of plant distribution in the Spring Mountains of Nevada, USA, are compared. Results show that GLM models give better predictions than CCA models because a species-specific subset of explanatory variables can be selected in GLM, while in CCA, all species are modeled using the same set of composite environmental variables (axes). Although both techniques can be readily ported to a Geographical Information System (GIS), CCA models are more readily implemented for many species at once. Predictions from both techniques rank the species models in the same order of quality; i.e. a species whose distribution is well modeled by GLM is also well modeled by CCA and vice-versa. In both cases, species for which model predictions have the poorest accuracy are either disturbance or fire related, or species for which too few observations were available to calibrate and evaluate the model. Each techniques has its advantages and drawbacks. In general GLM will provide better species specific-models, but CCA will provide a broader overview of multiple species, diversity, and plant communities.
20050545|The effects of altitude and seed size on germination and seedling survival were studied in Calluna vulgaris, Erica cinerea and Erica vagans. Experiments were carried out in the laboratory over a one year period. Seeds collected from heathlands of different altitudes were divided in two size classes. They were sowed on moist filter paper inside Petri dishes which were placed in chambers at 20 C and a photoperiod of 12 h light/12 h darkeness. The seeds of Calluna vulgaris were the first to begin germination and had the highest rate and percentage of germination. The germination of Erica vagans was moderate, while seeds of Erica cinerea germinated later and the germination was very low. Seeds of Calluna vulgaris and E. cinerea collected at the highest altitudes had the highest germination percentages. Seed size in Calluna vulgaris and E. cinerea did not affect germination. However, large seeds of Erica vagans had higher germination rates and percentages than small seeds. The large seed size of Calluna vulgaris contributes to a better survival and growth of its seedlings.
40305627|Disturbance regimes in many temperate, old growth forests are characterized by gap-scale events. However, prior to a complex stage of development, canopy gaps may still serve as mechanisms for canopy tree replacement and stand structural changes associated with older forests. We investigated 40 canopy gaps in secondary hardwood stands on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee to analyze gap-scale disturbance processes in developing forests. Gap origin, age, land fraction, size, shape, orientation, and gap maker characteristics were documented to investigate gap formation mechanisms and physical gap attributes. We also quantified density and diversity within gaps, gap closure, and gap-phase replacement to examine the influence of localized disturbances on forest development. The majority of canopy gaps were single-treefall events caused by uprooted or snapped stems. The fraction of the forest in canopy gaps was within the range reported from old growth remnants throughout the region. However, gap size was smaller in the developing stands, indicating that secondary forests contain a higher density of smaller gaps. The majority of canopy gaps were projected to close by lateral crown expansion rather than height growth of subcanopy individuals. However, canopy gaps still provided a means for understory trees to recruit to larger size classes. This process may allow overtopped trees to reach intermediate positions, and eventually the canopy, after future disturbance events. Over half of the trees located in true gaps with intermediate crown classifications were Acer saccharum, A. rubrum, or Liriodendron tulipifera. Because the gaps were relatively small and close by lateral branch growth of perimeter trees, the most shade-tolerant A. saccharum has the greatest probability of becoming dominant in the canopy under the current disturbance regime. Half of the gap maker trees removed from the canopy were Quercus; however, Acer species are the most probable replacement trees. These data indicate that canopy gaps are important drivers of forest change prior to a complex stage of development. Even in relatively young forests, gaps provide the mechanisms for stands to develop a complex structure, and may be used to explain patterns of shifting species composition in secondary forests of eastern North America.
20050617|This study reports an investigation of relationships between environmental variables (electrical conductivity of groundwater, soil redox potential, water-table depth, and high-tide flooding depth) on vegetation zonation in a salt-marsh system on the coast of northwest Spain. Discriminant analysis indicated that conductivity (a measure of salinity) and redox potential are correlated with vegetation type within the study area. Conductivity declines with increasing altitude and distance from the sea, whereas redox potential does not vary along well-defined large-scale gradients. Soils with the most strongly oxidizing conditions (i.e. moderate salinity, with Eh greater than 200 mV and thus subtoxic levels of
20051180|Research in pristine forests provides a necessary reference of energy and nutrient cycling in absence of anthropogenic influence. Therefore two unpolluted watersheds in the Cordillera de Piuchu of southern Chile (42 30 S) were chosen for detailed ecosystem analysis. The goals of this study were to quantify the distribution of the living biomass in the research watershed and to document topographic gradients in the vegetation. Across a small spatial gradient from ravine bottom to ridgetop (approximately 60 m in elevation and &lt 300 m in length) in the Cordillera de Piuchu watersheds, there were significant shifts in vegetation composition, structure, and biomass. Based on sampling in 18, 100
20146931|Altitudinal variation of the zonal superpramo vegetation was studied between 4300 and 4630 m to test a possible occurrence of a fine altitudinal zonation within the superpramo belt. A rectangular grid of 1 m sample plots was established; 25 replicate plots separated by a 3 m space were located along a 100 m long transect parallel to the contours, and there were 17 such transects separated by 20 m of altitude. Species were scored using a 7-grade cover scale and basic environmental data were gathered for each sample. Major changes occur over a short altitudinal range, at around 4400 m, which corresponds to a transition between the lower and upper superpramo. Species richness sharply declines but species turnover (per altitude) increases along the altitudinal gradient. The correlation between richness and bare ground or rock cover is negative, but the correlation to rocks becomes positive above 4500 m. Species from lower altitudes tend to have narrower altitudinal range, although a large number of species appear to be indifferent to altitude. Direct ordination analyses indicate that high-altitude species show stronger correlation to environmental variables, especially rock, than species from lower altitudes. TWINSPAN cluster analysis delimited 15 groups of samples. There is a change in the clustering pattern along the altitudinal gradient from a horizontal (i.e., within altitude) to vertical (i.e., across altitude) arrangement of the cluster groups, although this pattern is partly obscured at the highest altitudes due to a large number of empty samples. MANOVA tests for samples from adjacent altitudinal levels indicate two distinct altitudinal breaks at lower altitudes, corresponding to the Loricaria-belt in lower superpramo and the transition between lower and upper superpramo, while no indication of a zonation was found in upper superpramo.
40305671|A method is proposed for estimating plant competition coefficients and predicting the dynamics of herb and grassland plant communities from nondestructive pin-point measurements. The method is applied to inter-specific competition in a natural heathland community with relatively few interacting species. The study shows that the dynamics of the heathland plant community may be thought of as essentially a two-species system of Calluna vulgaris and Deschampsia flexuosa. There were significant competitive interactions between C. vulgaris and D. flexuosa. D. flexuosa affected both the cover and compactness of C. vulgaris individuals as a function of the compactness the previous year, whereas C. vulgaris significantly affected only the compactness of D. flexuosa. There was a significant negative effect of drought on the compactness of both C. vulgaris and D. flexuosa individuals, whereas night warming had no significant effects on either species. The predicted long-term outcome of the competitive interaction between C. vulgaris and D. flexuosa was that of unstable equilibrium, where the more dominant of the two will outcompete the other. However, when both species are found at relatively high plant covers the two species are predicted to co-exist for a long time period relatively to the time scale of the ageing process of C. vulgaris. Direct analyses of the inter-specific competitive interactions in natural plant communities with non-destructive measurements can provide important new insight into the processes that determine the composition of plant communities.
20050864|Alcoa of Australia Limited has been rehabilitating bauxite mines in the jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata) forest of Western Australia for more than 30 years. Mines rehabilitated in the early 1980s using out-dated methods have built up substantial fuel loads that may be reduced through prescribed burning. The vegetation response of 11-13 year-old rehabilitated bauxite mines to fire regimes differing in intensity and season over the first two years of post-burn succession is compared to the native jarrah forest. A total of 243 species from 137 genera and 56 families were identified in the native forest reference sites and in the 11-13 year-old rehabilitated areas before and after burning. The vegetation of the pre-burn rehabilitated areas was very different to that of the native jarrah forest. While total live plant cover, Acacia density, non-native eucalypt seedling density, weed density and the evenness index were similar between the two areas, total plant density, live Acacia cover, the proportion of weeds, native species numbers and diversity were significantly different. However, the greatest difference between the vegetation of the pre-burn rehabilitated sites and the native jarrah forest was the higher dominance of seeding species (plants killed by fire) in rehabilitated areas. In contrast, native jarrah forest was dominated by resprouting species (plants that survive fire). Burning the rehabilitated sites was successful in making the areas more similar to the forest in terms of total plant density, live Acacia cover and native species numbers but decreased their similarity in terms of live plant cover, Acacia density, non-native eucalypt seedling density, weed density and evenness. The vegetation response of the rehabilitated areas to different seasons of burning showed that autumn burning led to a greater increase in plant establishment than spring burning. Autumn burning also resulted in an undesirable increase in the density of non-native eucalypt seedlings that was not observed following spring burning. Although burning these 11-13 year-old rehabilitated sites will increase similarity to the native forest, it is unlikely that they will resemble the native jarrah forest without further management intervention.
41429063|Biotic homogenization, the decrease in beta diversity among formerly distinct species assemblages, has been recognized as an important form of biotic impoverishment for more than a decade.Although researchers have stressed the importance of the functional dimension to understand its potential ecological consequences, biotic homogenization has mostly been studied at a taxonomie level. Here, we explore the relationship between taxonomie and functional homogenization using data on temperate forest herb layer communities in NW Germany, for which taxonomie homogenization has recently been demonstrated. We quantified beta diversity by partitioning Rao's quadratic entropy. We found a general positive relationship between changes in taxonomie and functional beta diversity. This relationship was stronger if multiple functional traits were taken into account. Averaged across sites, however, taxonomie homogenization was not consistently accompanied by functional homogenization. Depending on the traits considered, taxonomie homogenization occurred also together with functional differentiation or no change in functional beta diversity. The species shifts responsible for changes in beta diversity differed substantially between taxonomie and functional beta diversity measures and also among functional beta diversity measures based on different traits. We discuss likely environmental drivers for species shifts.Our study demonstrates that functional homogenization must be explicitly studied as an independent phenomenon that cannot be inferred from taxonomie homogenization.
20051146|Shade tolerance and regeneration of some heavily exploited timber species (Uvariopsis congensis, Antiaris toxicaria, Funtumia africana, Prunus africana and Aningeria altissima) were studied in two adjacent sites in Kakamega tropical rain forest. The two sites have been subjected to different logging intensities. Within one of the sites, relatively intact areas were compared with adjoining more disturbed ones. Seedling presence or absence in mature forest phase, sapling proportions in gap and the mature phase and diameter distributions were used to classify the species into shade tolerance groups. Results indicate that except for Uvariopsis, the species are non-pioneer light demanders and could fit into three shade tolerance groups: A group resembling pioneers but with seedling in shade, a mid-tolerant group and one showing a high shade tolerance. Amount of regeneration and disturbance were related: regeneration being higher in the more disturbed site except for Uvariopsis. The intersite differences were mirrored when disturbed and adjoining more intact areas within one of the sites were compared. Species more abundant in the disturbed site also generally scored low in shade tolerance. However, the mid-tolerant Funtumia and not Prunus or Aningeria that had lower shade tolerance scores, dominated regeneration in the disturbed forest parts. The shade tolerance data suggest that Uvariopsis, Funtumia and Antiaris could be amenable to natural forest management. For Prunus and Aningeria, artificial regeneration in buffer plantations around the natural forest may be a better option.
20146765|Every proposed vegetation classification is sooner or later confronted with an accumulation of new data, which has to be assigned to existing vegetation units. Calculation of similarity indices between new relevs (vegetation plots) and constancy columns of established vegetation units is a suitable method for computerised assignment of relevs to these units. This paper compares several similarity indices using simulated data set where either randomly distributed or diagnostic species prevail in the species composition of the tested relev. Traditional indices, based only on species composition, produce different results than similarity indices that consider species fidelity. However, both types of indices failed in some situations and thus cannot be widely accepted as suitable methods of additional relev assignment. Therefore a combined Frequency-Positive Fidelity Index (FPFI) is proposed. This new index includes compositional similarity of an assigned relev with vegetation unit and retains the advantages and lacks the disadvantages of tested indices. The calculation of all these indices is available in the JUICE program (http://www.sci.muni.cz/botany/juice.htm).
20050656|A number of fleshy-fruit-bearing plants of temperate regions are dispersed by migratory frugivorous birds. It has been suggested that the more southerly populations of such species should produce ripe fruits later than more northerly populations, to ensure that fruit is available when the birds arrive. I will call this the 'adaptive delay' hypothesis. To test this hypothesis, I monitored fruiting phenology of Crataegus monogyna Jacq. at ten sites (in all of which fruit consumption is very largely by redwings, Turdus iliacus, and fieldfares, Turdus pilaris) between northern Spain (42 N) and northern Scotland (59 N). There was no negative correlation between latitude and date of fruit ripening (earliest recorded date on which ripe fruits had appeared, or earliest recorded date by which all fruits had ripened). My results thus argue against the adaptive delay hypothesis.
40305620|Recently, several studies have shown changing relationships between tree growth and climate factors, mostly in the circumpolar north. There, changing relationships with climate seem to be linked to emergent subpopulation behavior. Here, we test for these phenomena in Northwest China using three tree species (Pinus tabulaeformis, Picea crassifolia, and Sabina przewalskii) that had been collected from six sites at Qilian Mts. and Helan Mts. in Northwest China. We first checked for growth divergence of individual sites and then investigated the relationship between tree growth and climate factors using moving correlation functions (CF). Two species, Pinus and Sabina, from two sites clearly showed growth divergence, not only in the late twentieth century as reported in other studies, but also over nearly the whole record. In divergent sites, one chronology shows more stable relationships with climate factors (usually precipitation). In non-divergent sites, nearly all relationships either vary in strength or become non-significant at one point. While this might possibly be related to increased stress on some trees due to increasing temperature, the exact causes for this shift in sensitivity remain unclear. We would like to highlight the necessity for additional studies investigating possible non-stationary growth responses of trees with climate, especially at sites that are used for climate reconstruction as our sites in Northwest China.
20146778|Maianthemum bifolium Schmidt (May Lily) is a woodland species with low colonisation ability and high demands for seedling establishment conditions. To study the colonisation process, we analysed the clonal organisation and population structure of Maianthemum bifolium populations in a number of forest fragments using AFLP. A total of 129 genets were identified. Most (41/53) patches of M. bifolium in recent (less than 80 years old) and old (at least 175 years of age) parts of the woodlands contained single genets. Only one of the 12 patches with multiple genotypes showed intermingled growth. Besides seed dispersal also dispersal of vegetative material contributed to colonisation since five genotypes were found in more than one patch, with patches up to 51 m apart. Population differentiation between populations in different forests was significant (
20146504|In the mid-1980's, thousands of wetlands in the mid-continental Unites States were restored by interrupting drainage lines; revegetation of these systems, often cropped for decades and positioned in a predominantly agricultural landscape, relied solely on natural recolonization. A study of 64 of these wetlands determined that by 1991, three years after initial reflooding, aquatic species had efficiently recolonized whereas sedge meadow and wet prairie species had not. In 2000, 41 of these restorations that had not been significantly altered or returned to cultivation were revisited and their floras characterized by cover within distinct zones. While species richness increased on every site, the rate of accumulation varied widely. Furthermore, species that had colonized since 1991, including a variety of native wet prairie and sedge meadow species, were detected only at very low abundance. In contrast, Phalaris arundinacea L., an invasive perennial, was now present on every site, often at covers approaching 75-100% in the zones in which it occurred. Other invasive perennials, including Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. and Typha angustifolia L./glauca Godr., had expanded significantly on many sites. The overall dominance of invasive perennials has resulted in basins that are becoming more similar over time. However, present variations in species richness and composition can be attributed to flooding frequency, and, potentially, basin size and isolation from nearby natural wetlands, as shown by TWINSPAN and graphical analysis. Basins that have not been flooded at midsummer for at least seven of 12 years are among the most depauperate in the study. Yet even frequently flooded basins lack diversity if they are small (&lt 1.5 ha) or isolated from seed sources. Across the study, numerous species common to natural systems were notably absent or infrequently occurring, including Calamagrostis canadensis (Michx.) Beauv., Carex lacustris Willd. and Lysimachia thrysiflora L. Continuous areas of sedge-dominated meadow, a signature of prairie potholes, did not exist at any study site, nor did they appear to be forming. Given the dominance of invasive perennials and absence of many native wetland species, it appears that without significant seeding, planting and aftercare wetland restorations in fragmented landscapes have a low probability of resembling those that existed historically.
41686809|Heterogeneity in soil resources is common in natural communities, in both space and time. In contrast to substantial research into plant responses to spatial nutrient heterogeneity, little is known about the factors that influence plants responses to temporally heterogeneous nutrient supplies. We examine (1) the effects of nutrient pulse length on plant biomass allocation patterns, (2) whether a plant's root system prior to a nutrient pulse influences the benefit a plant can gain from that pulse, and (3) how competition and nutrient pulses interact to influence plant biomass. To address these issues, we used a pot experiment with varying initial conditions (nutrient levels and competition) designed to produce a range of root system sizes in the grass Poa pratensis. We then subjected the plants to short-term (3 and 10 days long) nutrient pulses where the same total nutrients were delivered at varying rates per unit time (intensity). Plant biomass and tissue nitrogen concentration were lowest when pulses were short relative to either long pulses or continuous supply. Plants with larger root systems at the start of the nutrient pulse gained more benefit than smaller plants because final plant size relative to initial root system size decreased as pulse intensity (nutrients delivered per unit time) increased. This study has two important implications. First, since larger plants benefit disproportionately more from a nutrient pulse than smaller plants, pre-pulse conditions such as the competitive environment and resource supply are likely key determinants of a plant's ability to capture nutrients from a pulse. Second, the importance of prepulse size provides a belowground mechanism to enhance the size variability among plants in a community.
40606971|Phenotypic plasticity is a common feature of plant invaders, but little is known about variation in plasticity among invading populations. Variation in plasticity of ecologically important traits could facilitate the evolution of greater plasticity and invasiveness. We examined plasticity among invasive populations of Microstegium vimineum (Japanese stiltgrass), a widespread and often dominant grass of forests in the eastern U. S. with two separate experiments. First, we exposed seven Microstegium populations to a drought treatment in growth chambers and monitored growth and physiological responses. Then, we established a greenhouse experiment using a subset of the populations; two that exhibited the most divergent responses and one intermediate population. In the greenhouse, we manipulated drought and shade and evaluated biomass production and specific leaf area (SLA). Microstegium exhibited plasticity for biomass production and SLA in the greenhouse experiment, and populations significantly varied in the degree of plasticity under drought and shade treatments. Two populations significantly increased biomass production under favorable conditions, unlike the third population. The most productive populations also responded to shade stress via greater SLA, possibly allowing for greater utilization of available light, while the third population did not. These results show that Microstegium can exhibit plastic responses to environmental conditions. Moreover, variation for plasticity among populations provides the potential for further evolution of plasticity. Future studies should focus on the relative importance of plasticity for the success of Microstegium and other plant invaders and evaluate post-introduction evolution of plasticity.
20146999|Phenomena of hybridization can affect the ecology and evolution of the species involved in the process, as well as their communities. Although numerous papers focus upon the problem of taxonomy, few of these have attempted to study hybrid zones in relation to the analysis of their communities. On the Iberian Peninsula, hybridization phenomena among different oak species are frequent. It is, however, between Quercus faginea Lam. and Quercus pubescens Willd. where the most noteworthy hybridization phenomenon occurs. In this respect, we are familiar with the existence of different introgression levels but we are unaware of whether these hybrids are the transitory result of the interspecific genetic flow or whether these are maintained by means of extrinsic selection processes. Study of plant communities' flora and environment might shed light upon this issue. Comparison between plant communities dominated by one of the parental species and those dominated by individuals of hybrid origin might enable us to establish the presence or absence of an environment that is potentially selective in favour of the hybrids. Thus the possible existence of extrinsic selection. Furthermore, this information will help us to understand plant community distribution in an area that is difficult to interpret. To this purpose, we used multivariate ordination techniques (DCA and CCA) based upon a total of 395 floristic releves covering the whole range of the parental species on the Iberian Peninsula and upon climatic and edaphic variables for each of these releves. We also compared the groups obtained in relation to floristic similarity (Jaccard index), richness and diversity (Shannon-Weaver index). Forests associated with Quercus pubescens are related to heavy summer precipitation, whereas Quercus faginea forests correspond to lower values of this variable and higher ones for continentality. Between both formations, there is a broad hybrid zone, with diffused borders that are related to an environmental gradient of Mediterranean influence. In this region, two types of forest communities were distinguished, which enabled us to divide the hybrid zones into two territories. Our results allowed us to locate the hybrid zone in an ecotone. The differentiation between habitats appears to indicate models of ecological selection. These models require, by definition, the presence of an environmental gradient between the parental zones. We are, however, aware of the need for future experiments in order to establish whether the hybrids are better adapted than the parental species. Only with availability of all this information can intrinsic selection be rejected.
20146460|There is growing evidence that interactions among plants can be facilitative as well as competitive, but knowledge of how disturbances influence these interactions and how they vary with species diversity is lacking. We manipulated plant density, species diversity (richness), and a burial disturbance in a controlled, complete factorial experiment to test theories about the relationships among species interactions, disturbance, and richness. The hypotheses tested were 1) burial disturbance reduces plant performance at all levels of density and richness, 2) burial disturbance can cause net plant interactions to become more facilitative, and 3) facilitation increases with species richness. Burial decreased plant survival by 60% and biomass by 50%, supporting the hypothesis that burial reduces plant performance. In the control (unburied) treatment, there was no difference in proportion survival or per plant biomass between low and high density plots, meaning that neither competition nor facilitation was detected. In the buried treatment, however, high density plots had significantly greater survival and greater per plant biomass than the low density plots, indicating net facilitative interactions. Thus facilitation occurred in the buried treatment and not in the unburied control plots, supporting the hypothesis that facilitation increases with increasing disturbance severity. The hypothesis that facilitation increases with increasing species richness was not supported. Richness did not affect survival or biomass, and there was no richness by burial treatment interaction, indicating that richness did not influence the response of the community to burial. The influence of the disturbance on plant interactions was thus consistent across levels of richness, increasing the generality of the relationship between disturbance and facilitation.
20146995|Evidence suggests that impacts of fungal pathogens on tree recruitment tend to be greater in the forest understory than in openings, and that shade-tolerant trees are less vulnerable than shade-intolerant species. To investigate the role that harmful soil fungi may have in reducing regeneration of temperate trees, we applied fungicide to buried seeds of matched pairs of species differing in their relative shade tolerance and/or successional status (Acer negundo versus Acer saccharum, Prunus virginiana versus Prunus serotina, and Pinus strobus versus Tsuga canadensis), in three habitats that differed in their degree of openness (old field, forest gap, and forest understory). Our results indicated that soil fungi reduced germination of A. negundo, P. virginiana, P. serotina. and T. canadensis, and reduced viability of ungerminated seeds of P. strobus; no significant effects of fungi on seeds of A. saccharum were detected. However, we found seeds were not less likely to survive following burial in forest understory than in gaps. As well, results for only one species pair (A. negundo versus A. saccharum) were consistent with the prediction that shade-intolerant or successional species should be more susceptible to fungal attack than mature forest species. These results contrast with other studies of temperate and especially tropical forest trees.
20146341|Spatial characteristics of sixteen tree species were analyzed by the information from 287 permanent plots in 1986 and 1994 on North East China Transect (NECT). Some species expanded and some retracted their distribution extents. Betula costata and Phellodendron amurense spread most fast toward west and east, respectively. All tolerant tree species extended their frontiers and all intolerant tree species retracted their frontiers except Betula platyphylla. The distribution area decreased for all species except Betula costata, Juglans mandshurica, Ulmus spp. and Fraxinus rhynchophylla. The patch sizes of Pinus koraiensis, Populus davidiana, Phellodendron amurense, Juglans mandshurica, Fraxinus mandshurica, Betula dahurica, Picea spp., Abies nephrolepis and Larix olgensis decreased, however, the patch sizes of Quercus mongolica, Betula costata, Acer mono, Tilia spp., Ulmus spp., Betula platyphylla and Fraxinus rhynchophylla increased. The frequency pattern of Populus davidiana, Betula platyphylla, Fraxinus rhynchophylla and Betula dahurica changed significantly (p&lt 0.05). The dominance pattern of Populus davidiana, Tilia spp., Juglans mandshurica, Betula platyphylla, Betula dahurica and Abies nephrolepis changed significantly (p &lt 0.05). The spatial correlation between species changed, such as the spatial correlation between Larix olgensis and Betula platyphylla, Acer mono and Ulmus spp. increased. The possible cause of these changes might be climate change, disturbances and habitat loss.
40212964|Phosphorus concentrations in many south-east Asian tropical rain forest soils are very low. To determine the growth responses of seedlings of a light-demanding (Shorea leprosula) and a more shade-tolerant (Hopea nervosa) dipterocarp species to increasing P, we carried out a nursery fertilisation experiment. Responses of symbiotic ectomycorrhizal (EcM) fungi to the treatments were also determined. Seedlings were grown under high light (13 mol m d) or moderate light (4 mol m d) in shade-chambers and were fertilised with a solution containing 0, 1, 10 or 100 mg L P. The growth of Hopea and Shorea showed different responses to the light and P fertilisation treatments with Hopea having greater growth under moderate light conditions and Shorea having greater growth under high light conditions. Shorea responded to P fertilisation by increasing its foliar P concentrations and growth rates, whereas Hopea did not take up additional P and did not improve its growth rates. There was no effect of either light or P fertilisation on total EcM colonisation or EcM diversity, but around half of the EcM morphotypes observed were affected by one of these two abiotic perturbations, most notably for Riessiella sp. which increased with P fertilisation suggesting it may not be a mutualistic fungus. These results show how niche partitioning in both dipterocarp seedlings and EcM fungi can be divided along contrasting axes.
41508729|Experimental induction of plant chemical defences with methyl jasmonate (MeJa) is a valuable tool for understanding the ecology of plant defensive responses. However, few studies have examined whether MeJa-induced defences in conifers are effective against insect herbivores. We studied, in 17 halfsib Pinus pinaster families, (i) the effect of MeJa application on plant growth and on the induction of diterpenoid resin in different sections of the stem; (ii) whether MeJa-induced defences increase the resistance of living pine juveniles against the large pine weevil Hylobius abietis in an in vivo bioassay and (iii) the induction of resin content after weevil wounding. Resin concentration was greater in the upper section of the stem compared with basal sections in both MeJainduced and non-induced seedlings. Sixty days after MeJa application, treated plants showed 40% greater resin content all along the stem, but reduced height growth compared to control plants. MeJa-induction was effective against the pine weevil, as induced seedlings were 21% less damaged than control plants. Wounding activity by H. abietis produced a strong local defensive response after 48 h, where resin concentration was double that observed in the basal and apical sections not exposed to the insects.
41508705|We measured variation in the intensities of ant and non-ant anti-herbivore defences amongst ten Macaranga species in Sarawak, Malaysia. Intensities of non-ant defences were estimated by measuring effects of fresh leaves (provided as food) of these Macaranga species on survival of common cutworm larvae [Spodoptera litura (Fabricius), Lepidoptera: Noctuidae]. Intensities of ant defences were estimated by measuring ant aggressiveness in the presence of artificial damage inflicted on plants. As part of our examination of non-ant defences, we measured leaf toughness (punch strength, by penetrometry), and the contents of total phenols and condensed tannin. We demonstrated interspecific variation in intensities of both ant and non-ant defences amongst ten Macaranga species and showed that the rank order of ant defence intensity was negatively correlated with the intensity of non-ant defence. We also found that the balance between ant and non-ant defence intensity was correlated with the rates of leaf turnover and shoot growth. Species investing more in ant defence tended to have higher leaf turnover rates. Macaranga species that occur preferentially in shadier microhabitats had lower leaf turnover rates, suggesting that non-ant defences are more cost-effective in more shadetolerant species. Our results also suggest that the total intensity of non-ant defences is positively correlated with both leaf toughness and total phenol content.
41508702|Biological soil crusts are common in many arid and semi-arid regions and they can alter microenvironments which are likely to directly and indirectly influence vascular plant establishment. The effect of biological soil crusts on germination is also influenced by the biological characteristics of the seeds themselves but rarely have the effects of both crust type and seed morphology on germination been examined in the same study. In this study, seed of five semi-arid woodland species with contrasting seed morphology were sown on top of patch types that commonly occur in natural woodlands (folise lichen, short-turf moss, tree leaf litter, disturbed crust) and their emergence was followed. Percent germination varied between patch types and, for the largest-seeded species (Maireana excavata), final germination was significantly lower on the biological soil crust and litter patch types because they strongly acted as a physical barrier to seed penetration into the soil. The remaining four species showed no significant differences in final percent germination with patch type because most seeds either completely or partially penetrated the surface layer. Germination time courses, however, showed that biological soil crusts delayed the timing of germination of these species. Hence, soil crusts might differentially affect the spatial patterning of species in semi-arid woodlands by their subtle influence on seedling emergence that is determined by differences in seed morphology and subsequent positioning within crusts.
40666577|In riparian zones along the banks of streams and rivers, flooding often causes large changes in environmental conditions immediately downstream of confluences. In turn, spatial heterogeneity in flooding along rivers and streams likely affects local species diversity. Furthermore, flooding during the plant growing season can strongly affect plant survival. In this study, we hypothesized that confluences have impacts on plant species diversity, and that these impacts are larger during the plant growing season. To test this hypothesis, we measured plant species diversity and the extent of natural bare ground at 11 river confluences during two different seasons (summer and spring) within the Mukogawa River basin system, Japan. Species diversity was highest at down-confluence areas in the summer. We linked the pattern of species diversity to that of bare ground creation by floods around the confluences and to the seasonality of annual plant recruitment. The extent of bare ground was significantly greater at down-confluence areas than at up-confluence areas. The recruitment of annual species was higher in the summer than in the spring and included rapid occupancy of bare ground in the summer. We suggest that within river systems, spatial and seasonal differences in patterns of flooding function together to regulate plant species diversity.
40212850|We studied the key environmental variables shaping plant assemblages in Mediterranean abandoned ricefields with contrasting freshwater inputs over saline sediments. Plant species cover, water levels and soil variables were studied following a stratified random sampling design. Multivariate analysis identified water regime, particularly summer and autumn irrigation, as the most important environmental variable associated with vegetation composition. Distribution of annual and emergent macrophytes was not associated to salinity as found at the study site (0.57-4.1 mS/cm). Increased soil salinity, caused by summer irrigation near the soil surface did affect shallow-marsh assemblage distribution. These key environmental characteristics allowed us to identify six main assemblages. Annual macrophytes (such as Zannichellia palustris) were defined by high (over 10 cm) annual mean water level (MWL) and early successional conditions; emergent macrophytes (such as Typha spp., Scirpus lacustris) by annual MWL of 10 to - 25 cm and continuous shallow flooding in summer and autumn (MWL of 0-10 cm). The shallow-marsh group, correlated with annual MWL - 25 to - 100 cm, separated into two subgroups by salinity: grassland (including Paspalum distichum) with summer and autumn MWL below - 25 cm and brackish (with Juncus subulatus or Agrostis stolonifera) with summer and autumn MWL just below the soil surface (0 to - 25 cm). Water levels for the grassland subgroup may equate with a salinity 'refuge' for P. distichum. Time was a further determinant of variation in the full data set. Abundance of a large group of agricultural annuals (such as Sonchus tenerrimus) and damp ground annuals (including ricefield weeds such as Ammonia robusta) decreased with time as bare ground disappeared. Maintenance of spatial vegetation heterogeneity in abandoned ricefields is contingent on continued water regime management.
40607000|We examined fine litterfall fluctuations on a seasonal and annual scale for 14 years (1992-2005) in a 1.2-ha plot in an old-growth lucidophyllous (evergreen broad-leaved) forest within the Aya Research Site, southwestern Japan. The average total litterfall input was 6.32 Mg ha, of which leaf litter accounted for 60% of the total. Two high-impact typhoons struck the study area in 1993 (T9313) and 2004 (T0416) during the observation period; however, the subsequent pattern of litterfall after disturbance was different between the two typhoons. T9313 disturbance caused a reduction of biomass (ca. 10% of basal area (BA)) and a sharp decrease in litterfall input following a massive input in 1993. On the other hand, T0416 caused a minor decline in litterfall input, accompanied by a relatively small reduction of BA (5.2% of the 2001 BA). In spite of large fluctuations, litterfall input increased year by year after the T9313 disturbance. In 2000, 7 years after T9313, leaf input showed no significant differences and recorded more than 90% of pre-T9313 levels. Re-leafing from typhoon survivors may play an important role in the recovery of litterfall input in this forest. This study demonstrated how one highimpact typhoon can alter the temporal fluctuations in fine litterfall in lucidophyllous forest ecosystems.
40305552|The importance of mounds created by Macrotermes subhyalinus as safe site for tree regeneration was analysed in a savannah woodland of Burkina Faso. Plantlets (height <1. 5 m) were sampled and followed over an year in 72  4 m quadrats located on M. subhyalinus mounds and adjacent areas. The mechanisms of regeneration and plantlet mortality were also determined. We identified three regeneration mechanisms: seedlings regenerated by seed (abundant on mounds), sprouts (abundant on adjacent areas) and root suckers (a rare case on both sites). A total of 37 species representing 17 families and 30 genera were found on all quadrats, of which 29 species were found on termite mounds and 22 species on adjacent areas. Species richness and density of plantlets at the 4 m scale were higher on mounds than in the adjacent area (P < 0.05). Among plantlet categories, seedling density was significantly different among microhabitats (P < 0.001) and across sampling periods (P < 0.01) and, the majority of plantlet individuals appeared within the 025 cm height class. The mortality of plantlets and particularly seedling mortality differed significantly between microhabitats (P < 0.01) and between periods (P < 0.01), whereas more than half the variation in the death of Acacia erythrocalyx seedlings (the most abundant species) were related to the density of the live seedlings of the same species (P < 0.001). The observed mortality rate was way below 50%; plantlet density remained higher on mound during sampling periods as compared to the adjacent area. It can thus be concluded that Macrotermes termite mounds are favourable sites for the recruitments of woody plants in savannah woodlands.
40606964|Ecologists commonly use matrix models to study the population dynamics of plants. Most studies of plant demography use plot-based methods to collect data, in part, because mapped individuals are easier to relocate in subsequent surveys and survey methods can be standardized among sites. However, there is tremendous variation among studies, both in terms of plot arrangement and the total area sampled. In addition, there has been little discussion of how alternative sampling arrangements influence estimates of population growth rates () calculated with matrix models. We surveyed the literature to determine what sampling designs are most used in studies of plant demography using matrix models. We then used simulations of three common sampling techniquesusing a single randomly placed plot, multiple randomly placed plots, and systematically distributed plotsto evaluate how these alternative strategies influenced the precision of estimates of . These simulations were based on longterm demographic data collected on 13 populations of the Amazonian understory herb Heliconia acuminate (Heliconiaceae). We found that the method used to collect data did not affect the bias or precision of estimates in our systema surprising result, since the advantage in efficiency that is gained from systematic sampling is a well-known result from sampling theory. Because the statistical advantage of systematic sampling is most evident when there is spatial structure in demographic vital rates, we attribute this result to the lack of spatially structured vital rates in our focal populations. Given the likelihood of spatial autocorrelation in most ecological systems, we advocate sampling with a systematic grid of plots in each study site, as well as that researchers ensure that enough area is sampledboth within and across sitesto encompass the range of spatial variation in plant survival, growth, and reproduction.
40305705|While leaves typically emerge near shoot apices around the outer surface of a plant canopy, their relative position "moves" deeper into the canopy as additional leaves emerge. The photosynthetic capacity
20050823|We investigated the effects of short- and long-term ungulate grazing on plant species cover and composition in arid lowland and more mesic upland communities of the Pryor Mountain Wild Horse Range (PMWHR). Measurements were taken over two years which differed significantly in growing season precipitation. Interannual differences in plant cover were significantly greater than differences between grazed and ungrazed communities. In the arid lowlands total plant cover decreased from 47% in 1993, a relatively wet year, to 29% in 1994, a relatively dry year. In the more mesic uplands total plant cover decreased from 107% in 1993 to 56% in 1994. The magnitude of change in cover was greatest in the grasses, especially for Pseudoroegneria spicata, the most abundant species in the lowland communities, which decreased from 21% cover in 1993 to 11% in 1994. There was not a consistent effect of herbivory on plant cover across sites, but its effects, particularly on the dominant perennial grasses, were conspicuous at some sites. For instance, in the lowlands cover of P. spicata was 3-12% in long-term grazed sites and 9-28% in short- to long-term ungrazed sites. Our study indicates that abiotic factors (e.g., precipitation) are more likely than grazing to affect abundances of key plant species, and hence ecosystem dynamics, in the PMWHR, and that the effects of herbivory are more localized and more prevalent in the lowland grasses than in the other plant functional groups.
20050527|Disturbances in the riparian area had a large effect on each stage of regeneration in riparian forests dominated by Fraxinus platypoda in the Chichibu Mountains, central Japan. F. platypoda adapted well to various disturbances in frequency and size such as landslides and canopy gap formation. The spatial distribution and age structure of F. platypoda were studied in relation to the disturbance regime of the riparian zone. The bell-shaped size and age distributions of F. platypoda suggest that F. platypoda trees were established synchronously in a large disturbance site caused by an earthquake landslide about 200 years ago. For the past 200 years, the topography has been stable and the canopy gap has been recovered by advance regenerated saplings. The distribution of F. platypoda saplings was restricted to an abandoned channel and part of a floodplain. These topographical sites formed by gravel provided safe sites for saplings because stream disturbances did not occur for a long time. Channel bars were under low shade stress because of the lack of herbs and a litter layer, which represents a safe site for seedling establishment. However, the seedling bank could have been destroyed by high frequent flooding caused by large typhoons and the establishment of seedlings might have been prevented for a long time. The regeneration process of F. platypoda was explicated based on the gap dynamics theory during the stable period of topography. On the other hand, an even-aged forest was established in a large scale disturbance site.
41429362|Biodiversity of Central European seminatural upland grasslands is steadily declining, due to either abandonment or management intensification. Although there are several descriptive overviews of their vegetation, quantitative information on the relationship between their species richness or composition and environmental factors is still scarce. We sampled upland grasslands in the southern part of the Czech Republic in order to determine the main soil variables affecting diversity of their vegetation. The relationships between species richness and environmental variables were tested using correlation analysis and regression trees, and the relationship between species composition and environment using detrended correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis. Of soil variables, species richness of vascular plants was most strongly affected by phosphorus and, less so, by potassium and organic matter, with higher richness in habitats with less phosphorus, potassium, and organic matter. Grasslands on soils with pH < 4.6 were species-poor, but across the rest of the pH range richness was independent of pH. Most bryophyte species were present on low-pH soils poor in calcium and phosphorus and on organic soils. Red List species were best represented in fen meadows on organic soils with high calcium and low pH. Major determinants of floristic composition were soil moisture, nutrient availability, and soil pH. This study shows that conservation management of these grasslands should focus on reducing phosphorus input and protecting groundwater discharge areas from drainage.
40305576|We summarize a long-term study of the effects of edge creation on establishment of the economically important arboreal palm Oenocarpus bacaba in an experimentally fragmented landscape in central Amazonia. Recruitment and mortality of large individuals ( 10 cm diameter-at-breast-height) were recorded within 21 1-ha plots in fragmented and intact forests for periods of up to 22 years. In addition, 12 small (0.7  14 m) sub-plots within each 1-ha plot were used to enumerate the abundance of seedlings and saplings (5-400 cm tall). On average, the recruitment of large trees was over two times faster near forest edges, leading to a sharp (90%) increase in the mean population density of large individuals near forest edges, whereas the density of larger trees remained constant in the forest interior. Overall seedling and sapling density was significantly lower in edge than interior plots, but edge plots had a much higher proportion of larger (>100 cm tall) saplings. Our findings demonstrate that forest edges can have complex effects on tree demography and that one must consider all tree life stages in order to effectively assess their effects on plant populations.
20146879|Woody colonization of grasslands is often associated with changes in abiotic or biotic conditions or a combination of both. Widely used as fodder and litter in the past traditional agro-pastoral system, ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) has now become a colonizing species of mountain grasslands in the French Pyrenees. Its present distribution is dependent on past human activities and it is locally controlled by propagule pressure and abiotic conditions. However, even when all favourable conditions are met, all the potentially colonizable grasslands are not invaded. We hypothesize that management practices should play a crucial role in the control of ash colonization. From empirical field surveys we have compared the botanical composition of a set of grasslands (present and former) differing in management practices and level of ash colonization. We have displayed a kind of successional gradient positively linked to both ash cover and height but not to the age of trees. We have tested the relationships between ash presence in grassland and management types i.e. cutting and/or grazing, management intensity and some grassland communities' features i.e. total and local specific richness and species heterogeneity. Mixed use (cutting and grazing) is negatively linked to ash presence in grassland whereas grazing alone positively. Mixed use and high grazing intensity are directly preventing ash seedlings establishment, when low grazing intensity is allowing ash seedlings establishment indirectly through herbaceous vegetation neglected by livestock. Our results show the existence of a limit between grasslands with and without established ashes corresponding to a threshold in the intensity of use. Under this threshold, when ash is established, the colonization process seems to become irreversible. Ash possesses the ability of compensatory growth and therefore under a high grazing intensity develops a subterranean vegetative reproduction. However the question remains at which stage of seedling development and grazing intensity these strategies could occur.
40926893|Fire is an important factor in several ecosystems, affecting plant population biology. Campos grasslands are under constant influence of disturbance, mostly grazing and fire. However, few studies evaluated the effect of fire on plant population biology of grassland species. Therefore, we aim to analyze the effect of fire on the population biology of four species, from different functional groups and regeneration strategies: Chaptalia runcinata (forb, resprouter, absence of belowground organ), Vemonia flexuosa (forb, resprouter, presence of rhizophore), Eupatorium ligulaefolium (shrub, resprouter, presence of xylopodium) and Heterothalamus psiadioides (shrub, obligate seeder). Seven plots were established in different sites in southern Brazil: frequently burned (FB) and excluded from fire since 6 years (E). All plots were subjected to controlled burns during summer. Before experiments, populations were sampled.Further observations were carried out after 90 and after 360 days of fire experiments. In addition, we counted the number of seedlings and resprouters recruited after fire. Heat shock experiments were conducted with two species (H. psiadioides and V. flexuosa), as well as the study of the bud bank of the following species: E. ligulaefolium and V. flexuosa.The obligate seeder species had all individuals killed by fire and established only after 1 year. Resprouters, however, showed new stems immediately after fire.E. ligulaefolium and V. flexuosa showed only vegetative regeneration from belowground organs and more individuals in excluded sites 1 year after the fire. The bud bank of E. ligulaefolium tended to be larger in excluded sites, whilst V. flexuosa showed an opposite result. High temperatures did not enhance nor kill seeds from both studied species. Vegetative regeneration was the most important strategy for all studied species, except for H. psiadioides, the obligate seeder species. Fire thus, plays an important role on population structure and demography, being also important for plant recruitment.
20146949|Biological soil crusts dominated by drought-tolerant mosses are commonly found through arid and semiarid steppe communities of the northern Great Basin of North America. We conducted growth chamber experiments to investigate the effects of these crusts on the germination of four grasses: Festuca idahoensis, Festuca ovina, Elymus wawawaiensis and Bromus tectorum. For each of these species, we recorded germination time courses on bare soil and two types of biological soil crusts; one composed predominantly of the tall moss Tortula ruralis and the other dominated by the short moss Bryum argenteum. On the short-moss crust, the final germination percentage was about half of that on bare soil. Also, the mean germination time was 4 days longer on short-mosses than on bare soil. In contrast to the short-moss crust, the tall-moss crust did not reduce the final germination percentage but increased the mean germination time. Similar results were observed in the four grasses studied. To investigate the mechanism by which moss crusts affected germination, we analyzed the water status of seeds on bare soil and moss crusts. Six days after seeding, the water content of seeds on bare soil was approximately twice that of seeds on tall- or short-moss crust. Analysis of the time course of changes in seed weight and water potential in Bromus tectorum revealed that overtime seeds on tall mosses reached higher water content than those on short mosses. The increase in the water content of seeds on tall mosses occurred as the seeds gradually fell through the moss canopy. Taken together, our results indicate that biological soil crusts with distinct structural characteristics can have different effects on seed germination. Furthermore, this study revealed that a biological soil crust dominated by short mosses had a negative effect on seed water status and significantly reduced seed germination.
41508646|Peatland buffer areas are important means in reducing sediment and nutrient loading from discharge waters in a variety of landscapes; however, use of natural mires as buffer areas may induce unwanted changes in the plant species composition. Vegetation composition dynamics were studied at one rewetted peatland and two natural peatlands used as buffer areas in forested catchments in southern and central Finland. In addition to the sediment and nutrient loads from the upstream catchments, the buffer areas received nitrogen and phosphorus from two artificial additions made in 2003-2005 and 2008 in order to simulate loads caused by forestry operations. The first vegetation inventory was done in the year of buffer construction (1996 or 2000), the second inventory 4-5 years after the first one, and the third inventory after 9-13 years. The vegetation composition changed significantly at all three buffer areas. Grasses and sedges, as well as herbs were generally favored by the use of peatlands as buffer areas, and at the species level, the coverages of Menyanthes trifoliata and Calamagrostis purpurea increased the most. At the two natural sites, the change in vegetation composition was more apparent in the upstream parts of the buffer areas, probably because they received more sediments and nutrients than the lower parts. Also, the vegetation changed significantly more in the lawn-level surfaces than in the hummocks. As the vegetation composition in natural peatlands used as buffer areas is likely to undergo significant changes, the use of endangered mire site types should be avoided.
20050501|At the local scale, plant species distribution is determined primarily by the environmental characteristics of a site. In a wetland, water chemistry and hydroperiod are two of the most important of these environmental characteristics. Both are functions of water source. In central Pennsylvania, groundwater input tends to be continuous, while surface water may be permanent or seasonal. The chemistry of groundwater and surface water differs since groundwater is influenced by the substrate through which it flows. Because of these differences, and because of their effects on plant species distribution, it is possible to use vegetation as an indicator of the dominant water source of a site. Plots within 28 wetlands in central Pennsylvania were sampled, and the plots were classified by water source. The three hydrologic categories were groundwater, seasonal surface water, and permanent surface water. The core of the study was the analysis of half of the plots to identify species that were associated with a particular water source. Several groups of indicator species were identified. Some species, including Nyssa sylvatica, were strongly associated with the presence of groundwater. Others, such as Symplocarpus foetidus, were strongly associated with the presence of seasonal surface water. Several aquatic species were associated with permanent surface water. The remainder of the plots were used to test the predictive ability of the indicator species identified. The vegetation of a wetland plot predicted its hydrologic category with 72% accuracy. The identification of more indicator species could lead to the development of a useful tool for wetland research and management, since monitoring hydrology is often both expensive and time-consuming.
41508818|What species and traits signal vegetation types along prominent environmental gradients in the Central Tien Shan and what are the corresponding diversity patterns? Vegetation was sampled at 41 sites throughout the Kyrgyz Republic using quadrats stratified throughout a 1,000-m sample area. Relationships among major environmental gradients, vegetation structure, and species composition were explored with nonmetric multidimensional scaling. Species distributions were examined to characterize phytogeographic patterns. Seven vegetation types ranging from desert grassland to meadow steppe were identified with cluster analysis, ordered primarily along elevation/mean annual temperature gradients. Four arid grassland types were distinguished, ranging mainly from 900 to 1,700 m elevation, and characterized by co-dominance of grasses and forbs with secondary dominance by shrubs. Annual and biennial forbs equaled perennial forbs in total importance. Grasses include C3 and C4 species. Three montane grassland types were recognized and characterized by co-dominance of perennial C3 grasses and forbs. Transition to montane steppe occurred from 1,500 to 1,900 m and is correlated with absence of C4 grasses and dominance of Festuca valesiaca. Highest diversity was found at intermediate elevations, from 1,800 to 2,600 m, in meadow steppe habitats. Forty-six percent of 580 identified species are Middle Asian endemics and remaining species primarily have distributions including Eastern Europe, the Caucasus, and western Siberia. Although grassland degradation from overgrazing has been chronic throughout the region, grasslands are widespread throughout the Kyrgyz Republic and many, particularly mid-elevation meadow steppes, retain high levels of native species diversity.
40212991|For plants that rely on animals for pollination, the ability to attract the animals to their flowers can be a crucial component of fitness. A large number of studies have documented pollinators to be important selective agents driving the evolution of flower size and correlated traits on a large scale. In this paper, we studied variations of reproductive traits in self-incompatible Trollius ranunculoides (Ranunculaceae) among local habitats at Alpine Meadow. The results showed significant variations of floral size, seed mass per fruit and sex allocation (male/female mass ratio) between different habitats, where floral size and seed mass was not explained fully by variation of plant size among habitats. It suggested that other factors unrelated to plant size might also influence floral variation. However, in our manipulated experiment, it showed no effects of manipulated floral size not only on visit rate of effective pollinators (bees and flies) but also on female success (seed set, seed mass per fruit), irrespective of flower density. Consequently, we could not conclude that the variation of floral size in T. ranunculoides was due to phenotypic plasticity, or natural selection. But if selection occurred, it should not be mediated by pollinators. It was likely that variation of sex allocation between habitats lead to changes of flower or corolla size, because plant invested much less to male function (female-biased sex allocation and larger single seed mass) in shade habitat (bottom of bush) than other exposed habitats, to gain higher fitness. In addition, high-floral density in T. ranunculoides had a negative effect on service of main pollinator (bees) and female success. This situation would influence the strength of selection on floral size.
20146791|Parkinsonia aculeata is an invasive tree native to tropical America, but introduced to Australia. Propagation and stand regeneration is mainly by seed. To gain baseline knowledge for management decisions, seed bank dynamics were monitored for two months during the fruit dispersal period at a coastal wetland in Costa Rica (native habitat), and at a coastal wetland and two semi-arid rangeland sites in Northern Queensland, Australia (introduced habitats). Seed bank densities underneath dense, uniform Parkinsonia stands were found to be lowest in the Australian wetland but highest in the Costa Rican wetland. Post-dispersal seed losses were highest in the Australian wetland, primarily due to seed germination and/or death. At the other sites, seed losses were minor during the study period, and predation was the most important cause of losses. At the two rangeland sites bruchid beetles accounted for more than 95% of the seed losses by predation. Total predation was lowest in the Costa Rican wetland. In order to test for intrinsic differences of seed characteristics, germination trials were conducted using both canopy seeds and seeds from the soil seed bank. Dormancy release and germination rate were studied under four temperature treatments. In all populations, dormancy release increased with increasing temperature, but averaged responses were significantly different between Costa Rican and Australian seed populations, and between seeds collected from the soil and from trees. Germination rate of scarified seeds was fastest at 35 C in all tested seed populations. While high seed germination levels seem to explain low seed bank densities in the Australian wetland, the large seed banks at the rangeland sites reflect the lower incidence of favourable conditions for germination. In the Australian wetland biocontrol with bruchids is unlikely to be successful, while control by conventional methods, such as killing stands by basal bark spraying, seems feasible, due to a lower long-term risk of re-infestation from the soil seed bank. At the rangeland sites conventional control will be difficult and costly. Parkinsonia stands may be better left to their own, while bruchid populations are monitored and management efforts are concentrated on preventing further invasion.
20146373| Empirical and theoretical studies have highlighted that plant competition and species diversity are substantially affected by interactions among plant growth and nutrient uptake rates, root lateral spread, root plasticity, and small scale soil nutrient heterogeneity. This study was designed to (a) experimentally estimate parameters regarding root scaling patterns, root biomass allocation, growth rates, nutrient productivity, and root nutrient influx rates of 55 plant species common to Great Plains grasslands; and (b) determine if grasses and forbs can be classified into statistically distinct groups based on these characteristics. We found that: (1) In all species root lateral spread, root length, and root surface area had significant allometric scaling relationships with root biomass, but that the relationships were unaffected by N availability. (2) Reductions in the supply of N increased the root:shoot ratio in 62% of the species. (3) The frequency distribution and mean values of maximum relative growth rates were very similar for grasses and forbs/shrubs, but mid successional grasses had a higher relative growth rate than late successional ones. (4) In 78% of the species tested, N productivity was increased by reductions in the N supply. (5) When subjected to a high N supply, the N and P productivity of grasses was, on average, higher than that of forbs/shrubs, and the N and P productivity of C grasses was, on average, higher than that of C grasses. No differences were found under a low N supply. (6) No differences on the average maximum N and P influx rates per unit of root surface area were found between grasses and forbs or between C and C grasses, but both were correlated with maximum relative growth rate. (7) The set of parameters we measured were able to separate grasses and forbs/shrubs into statistically distinct groups that tend to follow in broad terms the "coarse" vs. "fine" scale foraging strategies hypothesis. 
40802412|In order to reveal the characteristics of the vegetation affected by monsoons at the northern border of Paleotropics, a tree-by-tree census was conducted in the lowland forests in the southernmost Taiwan (Nanjenshan) and an adjacent islet (Lanyu). The census recorded a total of 109,060 individuals (1-cm diameter at breast height) belonging to 255 vascular tree species in 1330 quadrats (10  10 m). Two-way Indicator Species Analysis first classified forest types into two groups, Lanyu and Nanjenshan, reflecting biogeographical differences. Five subgroups were further classified, showing correlations with topographic position indices. Forests located on wind-exposed slopes, regardless of elevations, were characterised by low canopy height, high stem density, high proportion of small stems, and high proportion of warm-temperate-related species, compared with the wind-sheltered communities. However, there were no significant differences in basal area and species diversity. In comparison with other tropical forests, our forests are characterised by high stem density, low diversity and a lack of the pan-Paleotropical dominant Dipterocarpaceae. In conclusion, vegetation in the studied regions not only showed a transition characteristic between Paleotropics and Holarctic Kingdoms in terms of composition, but also showed differentiations caused by their biogeographical history and the interaction between topographic positions and wind stress from monsoons.
40305706|Several factors have been proposed to explain female maintenance in gynodioecious populations. In this study, we propose and test a novel hypothesis: greater tolerance to herbivory through more beneficial interactions with plant fungal mutualists might also help to explain female maintenance. Herbivory limits the amount of carbon and nutrients available for the plants and has been shown to affect mycorrhizal colonization. We hypothesized that simulated herbivory would decrease reproductive output, mycorrhizal colonization intensity, and the phosphorus content relatively more in hermaphrodites, so females would achieve higher advantage over hermaphrodites when under herbivory pressure. We tested it in the field using the gynodioecious plant Geranium sylvaticum. We found that simulated herbivory had a negative effect on the reproductive output in both sexes and that there was a similar reduction in fruit set, seed set, and total seed number in both sexes. Defoliation did not affect any fungal parameter measured, but decreased phosphorus content relatively more in females. The plants had a sexspecific relationship with mycorrhizae, but this was not related to herbivory. Thus, we conclude that females do not gain any specific advantage under defoliation from its symbionts at short-term even though it seems that the plants have sex-specific relationship with their mycorrhizal symbionts.
40305510|Monitoring of ecological restoration treatments often focuses on changes in community structure and function. We suggest that long-term changes in community composition also need to be explicitly considered when evaluating the success of restoration treatments. In 1992, we initiated an experiment in a ponderosa pine-bunchgrass ecosystem to evaluate responses to restoration treatments: (a) thinning the overstory vegetation (' thinning'), (b) thinning plus forest floor manipulation with periodic prescribed burning (' composite'), and (c) untreated ' control.' Treatments were further stratified by forest patch type: presettlement tree clumps (trees that established prior to the onset of fire exclusion in 1876), patches of retained postsettlement trees, patches where all postsettlement trees were removed, and remnant grass openings. Species richness did not differ among treatments for 10 years, but was highest in the composite treatment in 11th and 12th year after initial treatment. Community composition diverged among treatments 5 years after initial treatment, and compositional changes were greatest in the composite treatment. Species richness and composition differed among patch types prior to treatment. Remnant grass patches were the most diverse and presettlement patches were the least diverse. Following treatment, species richness in the postsettlement removed and retained patches, gradually approached levels found in remnant grass patches. Compositional differences among patch types changed a little by 2005. Species richness at the 2 m scale increased only where the overstory was thinned and the understory was burned. However, these changes may not be detectable for many years, and can vary temporally in response to events such as severe droughts. Nonnative species establishment may be reduced by scheduling longer burn intervals or by refraining from burning where fuel loads are not hazardous, though these options may hinder goals of increasing diversity. Restoring species diversity and community composition continues to be more difficult than restoring ecosystem structure and function.
20050691|Recruitment of plant species in wetlands dominated by Phragmites australis often results in a zonation of two vegetation types. A development of reed marshes takes place in the shallow flooded parts where the dominant P. australis becomes accompanied by interstitial marsh species. The vegetation on higher elevations becomes dominated by tall forbs. We investigated whether this zonation is related to the effects of flooding on the recruitment of component species of both vegetation types. All but one species had maximum germination at field capacity and germination was strongly reduced in drier soils and flooded soils. Nearly all seedlings of reed marsh species, irrespective of whether they initially supported two or six true leaves, survived eight weeks of total inundation. Survival of tall forbs was however significantly decreased by inundation. At both seedling stages a considerable number of Cirsium arvense lost their leaves when submerged, but all plants were able to recover when drained. Eupatorium cannabinum suffered extra mortality when transferred from flooded to drained conditions, whereas only young seedlings of Epilobium hirsutum died. Of all investigated species E. hirsutum was the only one with a significantly increased stem length after one week of submergence. Root porosities did not differ between reed marsh species and tall forbs but stem porosities of the reed marsh species Mentha aquatica and Lycopus europaeus were significantly higher than those of the tall forbs C. arvense and E. cannabinum. It was concluded that both reed marsh species and tall forbs require lowered water levels for germination. Flooding during the seedling stage will assign species to their position on the elevation gradient. Reed marsh species establish at lower elevations because they are best able to survive flooding and because their higher stem porosities allows them to withstand higher levels of partial submergence.
20050631|To study the effects of competition in Mediterranean shrubland regeneration following disturbance, we used a neighborhood approach to assess the influence of mature Rosmarinus officinalis neighbors on the resprouting of Erica multiflora individuals after clipping. Sprout biomass of target plants 2 years after clipping was regressed against various measures of neighbor abundance within a 2 m radius around target E. multiflora individuals in which all vegetation except R. officinalis had been removed. The largest single influence on the biomass of sprouts produced was the previous biomass of the resprouting plant. The abundance of R. officinalis neighbors had a weak but detectable effect on resprouting of E. multiflora. Abundance of neighbors within 60 cm from target plants was the best predictor of regrowth. At this distance, two simple measures of neighbor abundance within the neighborhood, the number of neighbors and the sum of their heights, were significant in accounting for variation in resprouted biomass. None of the combinations of neighbor variables performed significantly better than single variables. The best models accounted for around 24 percent of the variation in resprout biomass. As in other studies, angular dispersion of neighbors never had a significant effect on performance of target plants. The weak but significant response of resprouting to variation in R. officinalis abundance suggests that the intensity of competition in the experiment was low because of the removal of other species.
41508832|Environmental filters act to limit the local community assemblage from the regional species pool by restricting the viable trait states that can occur there. In alpine snowpatches, the timing of snowmelt is a strong environmental filter. In coming decades, the strength of this filter is likely to relax with global climate change. We used three continuous plant functional traits (leaf area, plant height, seed mass) and their divergence (using the FD var index) to document current patterns of community assembly and predict plant community responses to future environmental filters in alpine snowpatch vegetation. The community trait-weighted mean for leaf area and height, but not seed mass, was significantly higher in early snowmelt zones relative to mid and late melting zones across all snowpatches. Mean FD var for height (but not leaf area or seed mass), by contrast, was substantially lower in early snowmelt zones, indicating that species growing in early melt zones are consistently taller than those growing in other zones. These results suggest that if climate change leads to earlier snowmelt and hence, a longer growing season, taller (more competitive) species with larger leaf areas (more productive) may replace short species in snowpatches as these plant communities re-assemble in response to changing environmental filters.
20146929|The aim of the study was to establish and verify a predictive vegetation model for plant community distribution in the alti-Mediterranean zone of the Lefka Ori massif, western Crete. Based on previous work three variables were identified as significant determinants of plant community distribution, namely altitude, slope angle and geomorphic landform. The response of four community types against these variables was tested using classification trees analysis in order to model community type occurrence. V-fold cross-validation plots were used to determine the length of the best fitting tree. The final 9node tree selected, classified correctly 92.5% of the samples. The results were used to provide decision rules for the construction of a spatial model for each community type. The model was implemented within a Geographical Information System (GIS) to predict the distribution of each community type in the study site. The evaluation of the model in the field using an error matrix gave an overall accuracy of 71%. The user's accuracy was higher for the Crepis-Cirsium (100%) and Telephium-Herniaria community type (66.7%) and relatively lower for the Peucedanum-Alyssum and Dianthus-Lomelosia community types (63.2% and 62.5%, respectively). Misclassification and field validation points to the need for improved geomorphological mapping and suggests the presence of transitional communities between existing community types.
20050624|The influence of high temperatures (dry heat and hot water) on germination of seven Mediterranean Leguminosae species typical of fire-prone ecosystems in southern Spain is analyzed, in order to know the response of seeds to wildfires and the possible implications in their regeneration after this disturbance. Seeds were heated to a range of temperatures (50 -150 C) and exposure times (1-60 min) similar to those registered in the upper soil layers during wildfires. Germination tests were carried out in plastic Petri dishes over 60 days. In general, the degree of seed germination promotion by dry heat treatments showed a wide interspecific variation, although the final germination level was increased in all the studied species except for Scorpiurus muricatus. The thermal pretreatment of 50 C, however, was not effective for germination in any species, and rising the temperature to 70 C only slightly enhanced the germination in Cytisus patens. The preheatings of 90 C (5 and 10 min), 120 C (5 and 10 min), and 150 C (1 min) were the most effective in promoting seed germination. Hot water (100 C) scarification also increased the final germination level in all cases, with the exception of C. patens. The germination rates after preheating were much lower than in mechanically scarified seeds and closely resembled those of the untreated seeds, except for C. reverchonii, whose seed germination rate decreased with heat. The response of species to heat shock had no clear relationship with life trait or with the specific post-fire regeneration strategy (obligate seeder or facultative resprouter). Those species coexisting in the same habitats had different heat optimal requirements for seed germination, an strategy suggested by some authors as minimizing interspecific competition in the secondary succession started after fire.
41508727|The seedling establishment of late colonizer may be promoted in the environments created by the early colonizer without interspecific seedling competition. To confirm the hypothesis, seed-sowing experiments were conducted in a post-mined peatland, northern Japan. Seeds on three grasses (Rhynchospora alba, Moliniopsis japonica and Phragmites australis) were sown in four vegetation sites: bareground, R. alba grassland, M. japonica grassland, and grassland mixed with three examined species. R. alba is the earliest colonizer, and M. japonica and P. australis are the later ones. Seedling emergence, survival, growth and resource allocation were monitored for two growing seasons. The seedling emergence of all the species was lowest on bareground. The emergence of R. alba and P. australis was high in R. alba and mixed grasslands, but was low in M. japonica grassland. M. japonica seedlings emerged more in vegetation with moderate plant cover and litter. R. alba seedlings yielded the highest biomass on bareground, and the biomass decreased with increasing shading. R. alba did not change resource allocation of height to above-ground biomass between vegetation types. The seedling biomass of M. japonica was affected little by shading, probably because M. japonica adjusted resource allocation with shading. In the two summers, R. alba and M. japonica seedlings survived more when the neighboring seedlings emerged more. P. australis seedlings failed in overwintering. The seedling characteristics of each species explained the species replacement, i.e., R. alba invaded bareground and facilitated the establishment of late colonizer, M. japonica, by the shelter effects of the overstory and seedling.
20051265|In the Hawaiian Islands, native Heteropogon contortus (pili grass) is being replaced by alien grasses, one of which is Pennisetum setaceum (fountain grass). Both grasses depend on seeds for population growth. To help understand factors promoting the spread of the alien and decline of the native, we investigated the effects of physical disturbance, nutrient addition, and seed supplementation on seedling recruitment in experimental field plots. In the first year, our field site experienced an unusual drought, and seedling recruitment was greater for H. contortus than for P. setaceum under all treatments. Disturbance increased recruitment of H. contortus seedlings during some sampling periods. Recruitment was not significantly increased by seed additions for either species despite our finding of only 49 and 4 seeds
41508782|Atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) enrichment may increase plant growth more than the uptake of chemical elements from soil. Increased CO also may alter element levels in biomass from multi-species vegetation by changing plant species abundances. We measured concentrations of ten elements in aboveground tissues of three C grasses that had been exposed for 2-3 growing seasons to a continuous gradient in CO from 250 to 500 mol mol. The grasses, Bouteloua curtipendula, Schizachyrium scoparium, and Sorghastrum nutans, are competitive dominants in assemblages of tallgrass prairie vegetation growing on each of three soil types along a field CO gradient in central Texas, USA. Our objective was to determine whether CO influences element concentrations in grass mixtures by changing concentrations in individual species or shifting species abundances. Increased CO had little effect on element concentrations in grasses compared to differences observed among grass species and soils. Increasing CO from the pre-Industrial to elevated levels reduced the phosphorus concentration in grasses grown on a clay and sandy loam soil. Concentrations of most other elements did not respond to CO treatment. Cover of the mid-grass Bouteloua declined at higher CO levels as cover of the taller grass Sorghastrum increased. Concentrations of several elements were lower in Bouteloua than Sorghastrum; hence, this exchange of species at higher CO increased element concentrations in grass assemblages. Potential consequences include an improvement in the nutritional quality of plants for herbivores. Results highlight the underappreciated impact that CO enrichment may have on ecosystem functioning by changing plant composition.
20146632| Several studies on herbivory have shown that plants may have different responses to foliar damage. Most studies have been done using hermaphroditic species, here we present, using a defoliation experiment, different types of response to foliar damage by the monoecious Cnidosculus acontifolius. We evaluated four treatments: natural herbivory (control), and 25%, 50% and 100% artificial defoliation. The results suggest that this species is capable of showing the following compensatory responses: (a) undercompensation in total production of flowers and in fruit set (damage &gt 25%); (b) full compensation in seed weight (all levels of damage); and (c) overcompensation in leaf growth and in the proportion of female flower production (damage  25%). The results show that C. aconitifolius can exhibit a very fast and plastic response depending on the intensity of damage and the time since defoliation. The increase in foliar growth suggests a long-term tolerance response to hervibory, whereas the change in the proportion of female flowers produced does not appear to have a long-term effect due to the decrease of fruit production in all levels of damage. We suggest that the response in foliar growth and the change in sexual expression by C. aconitifolius, are associated with the high resource availability conditions prevalent in the population studied. 
40305690|Tamarix aphylla is an evergreen tree that has invaded the drawdown zone of Lake Mead, a large reservoir on the Lower Colorado River. We performed competition experiments between T. aphylla and T. ramosissima, and between T. aphylla and the native tree Salix gooddingii. Root: shoot ratios and biomass were higher in S. gooddingii than both Tamarix species, and T. ramosissima grew taller than T aphylla and S. gooddingii when treatments with single plants and no competition were compared. Tamarix aphylla outcompeted the native S. gooddingii, but had competitive abilities that were slightly inferior to T. ramosissima. The competitive abilities of T. aphylla may and help explain why this species is not as widespread as its congeners, although because of T. aphylla' s larger size, the species may be as serious a threat to native riparian ecosystems as T. ramosissima. These results indicate that management actions should be taken to ensure that T. aphylla does not further invade riparian ecosystems in the southwestern United States.
41686806|Plant ecology spans multiple levels of biological organization and spatio-temporal scales, and over four dozen plant ecology textbooks have been published since Warming's (1895) Oecology of Plants.' With increasing emphasis on specialization, students and teachers can feel paralyzed by the vast literature, and as such may lack an adequate appreciation of the history of the field. The objective of this study was to derive a comprehensive set of topics that are covered in plant ecology textbooks, and to ask (1) what are the most important topical gradients among textbooks, and (2) has the emphasis of topics changed over time? The NMS ordination determined that the first gradient represented a clear contrast in emphasis on physiological ecology versus community ecology. The second gradient represented a contrast in emphasis on abiotic environmental factors versus biotic factors. Negative interactions, growth, demography, gas exchange, mineral nutrition, stress, diversity, disturbance, herbivory, paleoecology, ecosystem ecology, pollution, and global change have increased in emphasis over time. The increasing reliance on data and the number of authors per textbook illustrates how the discipline has matured into a rigorous quantitative science that requires a diversity of specializations. These results can be used to inform the development of curricula within a single course or across several years of study, and to assist the development of new and revised textbooks. Plant ecologists need to be familiar with this core set of topics in addition to becoming an expert in a few of them.
20146557|Bouteloua gracilis (blue grama grass) native populations have been shown to be highly variable, however the genetic basis of this variability has not been well established. Determining the extent of genetic variability within and among plant populations have important repercussions for the management and conservation of species, and in particular for those subjected to intensive use such as forage plants. Using RAPD, this study was undertaken to investigate the genetic variability of four B. gracilis native populations developed in three grasslands and one shrubland at the southernmost part of the North American Graminetum in Mxico. Significant differences in grass aboveground production were found among the study sites, while considerable genetic variation within each of the four blue grama populations evaluated was detected. The molecular analysis, based on 55 individuals, revealed a total of 108 scorable repeatable bands, with 99 of them being polymorphic (overall polymorphism = 91.7%). Within every population each individual was genetically distinct and no population-specific bands (fixed marker differences) were identified. Pair-wise
20146381|Most studies on the importance of the neighbourhood on a plant's risk of herbivory have focused on palatable plants and how they are protected by unpalatable neighbours. This study examined the grazing intensity of a relatively unpalatable shrub, Buxus sempervirens, in different neighbours. Exactly 2683 plants of Buxus sempervirens (including 172 controls) were sampled in 12 enclosed pastures belonging to 4 sheep farms. The enclosures were grazed at 3 different seasons (spring, summer and autumn). Plants were divided in 4 age/hight classes (first year, &lt 4 cm, 4-10 cm, 10-40 cm) and into 8 neighbourhoods. The first of these was characterised by the absence of any plants within a radius of 5 cm around the Buxus individual and the 7 others by the identity of the dominant species in contact with the Buxus plant. The intensity of grazing on the neighbouring plants were also recorded. At the end of one year's monitoring, 26.2% of Buxus sempervirens plants had been grazed. The proportion of plants grazed was significantly higher in spring than in the other two seasons. It decreased with increasing plant age. It was higher in neighbourhoods that were intensively grazed than in those with light grazing. The proportion grazed in the absence of a neighbour plant was intermediate between the previous two. The probability of a plant of an invading species being grazed is influenced by factors other than its life-history traits. Some neighbourhoods consisting of unpalatable plants facilitate the establishment of Buxus sempervirens by protecting the young plants from grazing, whereas other highly palatable neighbourhoods are readily grazed by sheep, thus indirectly increasing the proportion of Buxus sempervirens that are grazed. The young and short (&lt 4 cm in height) Buxus plants, which are less recognisable by sheep, are most sensitive to the impact of grazing.
40606976|This study assesses the dispersal mechanisms of the narrow endemic Polygala vayredae, analysing the functioning of its dispersal syndromes (anemochory and myrmecochory), the spatio-temporal variability of the disperser assemblage, foraging behaviour and dispersal ability, and the role of the elaiosome in ant attraction and seed germination. The dispersion of diaspores begins when either (1) capsules or seeds fall beneath the mother plant (barochory) or (2) the seeds are directly collected in the suspended capsules by ants (myrmecochory). As capsules frequently open and expose/disseminate seeds before leaving the mother plant, the adaptation for anemochory appears to be reduced and rarely functional, possibly with only occasional events of long-distance dispersal (e. g. under extreme weather conditions). P.vayredae is essentially myrmecochorous and a diverse array of ant species are involved in seed manipulation, with the elaiosome playing a major role in ant attraction. From the plant's perspective for dispersal, the majority of ant species had a positive interaction with the seeds, but negative and potential neutral interactions were also observed. Overall, dispersal distances were limited and were mainly determined by ant body size. The frequency of interactions and the ant assemblage varied significantly both spatially and temporally, and these factors may have an effect on directing or disrupting the selection of plant traits. Low seed predation and similar germination rates of intact seeds compared with seeds without elaiosome indicate that seed predator avoidance and seed germination improvement after ant manipulation are not among the selective advantages of myrmecochory operating at present. Dispersal mechanisms that enhance seed dispersal within the population and only occasionally lead to long-distance dispersal events, along with the rarity and patchiness of suitable habitats, may be the main factors explaining the actual density and narrow distribution of this species.
20146447|Imperata cylindrica is an invasive C grass, native to Asia and increasing in frequency throughout the tropics, subtropics, and southeastern USA. Such increases are associated with reduced biodiversity, altered fire regimes, and a more intense competitive environment for commercially important species. We measured rates of clonal spread by I. cylindrica from a roadside edge into the interior of two longleaf pine savannas. In addition, we measured the effects of fertilization with nitrogen and phosphorus on clonal invasion of one of these sites. Clonal invasion occurred at both sites and at similar rates. Older portions of an I. cylindrica sward contained fewer species of native pine-savanna plants. Clonal growth rates and aboveground mass of I. cylindrica were reduced by the addition of phosphorus relative to controls by the second growing season at one site. As a group, native species were not affected much by P-addition, although the height of legumes was increased by P addition, and the percent cover of legumes relative to native non-legumes decreased with increasing expected P limitation (i.e., going from P-fertilized to controls to N-fertilized treatments). Clonal invasion was negatively correlated with the relative abundance of legumes in control plots but in P-fertilized plots. Species richness and percent cover of native plants (both legumes and non-legumes) were dramatically lower in N-fertilized plots than in controls or P-fertilized plots. Species richness of native plants was negatively correlated with final aboveground mass of I. cylindrica in control and P-fertilized plots, but not in N-fertilized plots. The results suggest that I. cylindrica is a better competitor for phosphorus than are native pine-savanna plants, especially legumes, and that short-lived, high-level pulses of phosphorus addition reduce this competitive advantage without negatively affecting native plant diversity. Ratios of soil P to N or native legume to non-legume plant species may provide indicators of the resistance of pristine pine savannas to clonal invasion by I. cylindrica.
20050945|The spatial variation in epilithic lichen community structure was investigated as part of a larger study of the vegetation and ecology of the tall limestone cliffs within the Niagara Escarpment Biosphere Reserve in southern Ontario, Canada. The cover of all lichen taxa was visually estimated for a total of 199 samples taken from the top, middle, or bottom of the cliff face at five sites. Twelve environmental variables were also measured. Twenty-seven lichen taxa were identified on the samples. Multivariate ordinations of species composition (DCA, CCA, PCCA) revealed variation in community structure on multiple scales, but no groupings of sites that would have suggested the presence of several distinct species assemblages. A gradient in species composition from north to south, most clearly reflected in the decreasing cover of foliose and fruticose species, may reflect a gradient in human disturbance. There was also intermediate-scale patchiness in species composition in a horizontal plane across cliffs, but despite earlier claims made in the literature, no evidence of vertical zonation of the lichens on cliffs was found. Species composition also responded to small-scale factors possibly related to exposure, light, or moisture. Unlike community composition, the total cover of all lichens was homogeneous over large spatial scales and varied only on a small scale, illustrating that scale as well as resolution of a study may influence the ecological patterns seen. More than half of the species found on the Niagara Escarpment are rare on rock substrates elsewhere in southern Ontario, and two are new for North America (Candelariella heidelbergensis (Nyl.) Poelt and Lecanora perpruinosa Frberg). The result that cliffs support a distinct flora containing many rare species suggests that they are a reservoir for biodiversity not just for vascular plants, but also for lichens.
41508717|We describe relationships between the bioclimates and vegetation of the northwest of Mexico, including the Baja California peninsula and the stretch of the Pacific basin between the states of Sonora and Colima, a transition zone from the most arid deserts of North America to tropical rainforests. Links were inferred from temperature and rainfall data obtained from 453 weather stations that were used to construct climatograms, calculate several climate indices and describe main latitudinal and longitudinal trends, and from sampling the vegetation around these stations. Across this extensive area, spanning some 14 of both latitude and longitude as well as three zonobiomes and two zonoecotones, two macrobioclimates were identified, Mediterranean and Tropical, within which we were able to distinguish six bioclimates. For each of these bioclimates, we find different types of zonal and azonal vegetation, whose floristic composition and physiognomy are described here.
20050435|The change in the species richness following a gradual invasion of Carpinus betulus in the patch of oak forest (Potentillo albae-Quercetum) in Biaowiea was studied between years 1980 and 1994. Species richness and species deletion were compared to the spatial variation in the density and size of C. betulus individuals. The study showed that, in a microscale, (1) the rate of deletion of heliophilous species was similar to that of shade-tolerant ones and was c. 2 species per 4 m per 10 years, (2) species richness was negatively correlated with the density and size of C. betulus saplings recruited to the shrub layer, (3) species deletion was positively correlated with the number of saplings in the shrub layer. The results support the hypothesis that the invasion of C. betulus is a proximate cause of the decline of Potentillo albae-Quercetum, and in a microscale, it has three stages: (a) initial colonisation of the ground layer by the seedlings, (b) recruitment of juveniles to the shrub layer, deterioration of light conditions and rapid deletion of species, and (c) closure of the canopy and deletion of remaining heliophilous species and vulnerable shade-tolerant species.
20051020|This report presents data from experiments on seed dispersal by wind for ten species of the family Apiaceae. Seed shadows were obtained in the field under natural conditions, using wind speeds between four and ten m/s. The flight of individual seeds was followed by eye, and seed shadows were acquired, with median distances varying from 0.7 to 3.1 m between species. Multiple regression models of wind speed and seed weight on dispersal distance were significant for six out of ten species; wind speed had significant effects in seven cases, but seed weight only once. A good correlation between mean terminal falling velocity of the seeds of a species and median dispersal distance, indicates the promising explanatory power that individual terminal velocity data might have on dispersal distance, together with wind speed and turbulence. The theory that seeds that seem to be adapted to wind dispersal travel much longer distances than seeds that have no adaptation was tested. Flattened and winged seeds were indeed found to be transported further by wind, but not much further. Moreover, the species with wind-adapted seeds were also taller, being an alternative explanation since their seeds experienced higher wind speeds at these greater heights. Furthermore, flattened and winged seeds were disseminated from ripe umbels at lower wind speeds in the laboratory. This means that the observed difference in dispersal distance would have been smaller when species specific thresholds for wind speed were incorporated in the field experiments. We argue therefore, that seed morphology is not always the best predictor in classifying species in groups with distinctly different dispersal ability.
20146908|Field, greenhouse, and growth chamber experiments were conducted to determine the effects of different burial treatments on photosynthesis (carbon dioxide exchange rate), chlorophyll-a fluorescence, leaf area, biomass, leaf thickness, total chlorophyll content and chlorophyll a/b ratio of ten sand dune species: Agropyron psammophilum, Cakile edentula, Cirsium pitcheri, Corispermum hyssopifolium, Elymus canadensis, Oenothera biennis, Panicum virgatum, Strophostyles helvola, Tusilago farfara, and Xanthium strumarium. Although there were significant differences between species, all of them exhibited stimulation in growth following burial in sand. Generally, buried plants of these species showed an increase in biomass, photosynthetic efficiency, and chlorophyll-a fluorescence because of higher energy content in their roots, rhizomes, and underground stems. The main reasons for the stimulation in growth were an increase in leaf area, leaf thickness, and root biomass. The total chlorophyll content of leaves of buried plants of A. psammophilum, E. canadensis, and P. virgatum was higher than controls, but there were no significant differences for Cirsium pitcheri, O. biennis, and S. helvola. The similarities and differences exhibited by the test species in their responses to burial would be ecologically adaptive to survive the harsh environmental conditions of foredunes. All species showed a clear compensatory response following recovery from the burial episode and surpassed control by enhancing the vital physiological, morphological and growth functions.
20050462|Dynamic features of shoot phenology including leaf emergence and leaf fall, and leaf life span for eleven evergreen broad-leaved tree species were investigated in a warm-temperate rain forest in Mount Kiyosumi, central Japan. All species had periodic leaf emergence or flushing pattern, and were classified into two types; single and multiple flush and only one species, Eurya japonica, represented the latter type and the rest had single flush in spring. The single flush type can further be subdivided into two groups according to their duration of shoot growth; short and long flush. Seasonal patterns of leaf fall were categorized into four; unimodal, bimodal, broad unimodal, and multimodal type though they were not fixed pattern. The leaf emergence and leaf fall patterns were correlated for the eleven species, and five phenological types were categorized. Four of them were the single flush types, i.e., short flush of leaf emergence with unimodal leaffall (SSU) type of Castanopsis sieboldii and Quercus salicina, short flush with bimodal leaf fall (SSB) type of Quercus acuta. Machilus thunbergii, Neolitsea sericea, and Cinnamomum japonicum, long flush with bimodal leaffall (SLB) type of Myrsine seguinii, and long flush with broad unimodal leaffall (SLR) type of Symplocos prunifolia, Cleyera japonica, and Illicium anisatum. The multiple flush type is only one species, Eurya japonica, and it had multimodal leaffall pattern (MM type). The phenological pattern varied in relation to leaf life span, leaf size, and tree habit. Leaf life span ranged from 1.1 to 5.8 yr. The short flush species or SSU and SSB types were all canopy or subcanopy trees, and the former had short and the latter had long leaf life spans. The long flush species were all microphyllous small trees, and SLB type had a relatively long leaf life span in understory, SLR type had a long leaf life span in understory or in open habitat and/or forest gap as a pioneer tree. MM type had a long leaf life span and colonizing species in open habitat but they can survive in understory as well. The phenological attributes of evergreen trees were well corresponded to the ecological guild of the tree in both forest structure and successional stage, and were also constrained by phylogenetic groups.
20146887|The effect of herbivory and resource availability on the competitive ability of different plant species has been an area of intense debate amongst plant ecologists for at least two decades, but the interactive effects of herbivory and plant competition between woody and herbaceous plants are rarely studied and theory is poorly developed. This study used experimental manipulations on transplanted and naturally occurring mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) seedlings to show the effects of deer browsing and competition from deer-induced, herbaceous turf communities on mountain beech regeneration in New Zealand. Differences in the species composition of these turfs had little effect on mountain beech seedling establishment, but turf removal increased seedling growth and survivorship, showing that competition with other plants had direct effects on mountain beech regeneration. Deer browsing reduced the establishment and growth of seedlings, but the size of this effect did not vary with light and nutrient availability. There was no immediate compositional response of turf communities following the removal of deer browsing. The addition of nutrients appeared to reduce the intensity of belowground competition (stem growth increased relative to root growth) and increase seedling mortality, but there was no effect of changing levels of light. These results showed simple and direct negative effects of deer browsing on mountain beech regeneration. Indirect negative effects on regeneration were caused by deer-induced turf communities. We found little evidence for interactive effects between herbivory, plant competition and the availability of light or nutrients on seedling regeneration, which suggests that these factors acted independently.
20146388|Detailed demographic studies of herbaceuos plants in afro-tropical savannas are extremely rare in published literature. I studied phenology and population dynamics of a perennial herb, Lapeirousia rivularis Wanntorp, at a savanna site in Zambia over a 4-year period, from 1997 to 2001, using enumeration techniques in permanent and temporary quadrants. The age of the plants was accurately determined from persistent annual sheaths that accumulate around the corm throughout the life of the plant while the estimated survivorship of the 1998 cohort was developed from a mathematical model based on the observed mortality of the cohort over a 3-year period. L. rivularis completed its annual phenological cycle in a single rainy season. Plants sprouted from perennating corms in early December, flowered, fruited and dispersed seeds by end of January. Seeds germinated immediately after dispersal and seedlings produced small corms before aerial parts died early in the dry season. L. rivularis has two morphs: a vegetative morph and a reproductive morph; the latter bears several leaves and flower stalks. In the vegetative morph, the corm is renewed annually while the corms of the reproductive morph did not appear to be renewed. Instead corms grew larger and produced lateral daughter corms that became independent ramets the following rainy season. Most L. rivularis plants reached reproductive maturity when they were 6-10 years old. Reproductive success, seedling establishment and recruitment varied from year to year in the grassland plot perhaps because of fluctuations in weather conditions and heavy episodic insect herbivory. The survivorship curve of L. rivularis was characteristically concave due to high juvenile mortality (0.2-0.5) and very low adult mortality (0.03). Although about 3% of the plants live to be up to 30-35 years, the mean age of the population in 2001 was 6.4 years because of the predominance of juvenile plants. The production of a protective sheath at the end of the rainy season and the accumulation of old sheaths around the fleshy corm are apparent adaptations against desiccation during the long dry season drought when the topsoil remains below wilting point. The high juvenile mortality during the dry season is probably caused by inadequate protection by the few sheaths around the corm against desiccation. Population dynamics in L. rivularis were caused by variable annual recruitment and high juvenile mortality. Population density doubled in 1999 due to good fruiting success in the previous season that was associated with good weather conditions and negligible herbivory. Although cultivation had a significant negative effect on the population of L. rivularis, it increased consistency in fruiting success and production of fruits per plant, presumably because of improvement in soil-moisture status, reduction in plant competition and by providing temporal escape from insect herbivory through delayed flowering. The phenology and life history of L. rivularis exhibit adaptations to a savanna environment that is characterized by disturbance and stress caused by seasonal drought, fire, episodic herbivory and cultivation.
24553707|The association of tree species with particular soil types contributes to high  diversity in forests, but the mechanisms producing such distributions are still debated. Soil nitrogen (N) often limits growth and occurs in differentially available chemical forms. In a Bornean forest where tree species composition changes dramatically along a soil gradient varying in supplies of different N-forms, we investigated whether tree species' N-uptake and soil specialization strategies covaried. We analyzed foliar 15N natural abundance for a total of 216 tree species on clay or sandy loam (the soils at the gradient's extremes) and conducted a 15N-tracer experiment with nine specialist and generalist species to test whether species displayed flexible or differential uptake of ammonium and nitrate. Despite variation in ammonium and nitrate supplies and nearly 4  difference in foliar 15N between most soil specialists and populations of generalists on these soils, our 15N tracer experiment showed little support for the hypothesis that soil specialists vary in N-form use or the ratios in which they use these forms. Instead, our results indicate that these species possess flexible capacities to take up different inorganic N forms. Variation between soil specialists in uptake of different N forms is thus unlikely to cause the soil associations of tree species and high  diversity characteristic of this Bornean rain forest. Flexible uptake strategies would facilitate N-acquisition when supply rates of N-forms exhibit spatiotemporal variation and suggest that these species may be functionally redundant in their responses to N gradients and influences on ecosystem N-cycles.
40926912|In the Mediterranean Basin, most cultivated areas were abandoned in the last century and are now in various stages of old-field succession. The aim of this work was to analyse the successional trajectories of these ecosystems, and to assess possible deviations in these pathways due to fire occurrence at high or low recurrence levels. Old-fields abandoned either about 50 or about 100 years ago were selected in SE Spain. Within the 50-year-old abandoned fields, plots were established which had been burned by 1,2 and 3 fires in the last 25 years. Cover values of vascular species were sampled and then analysed by means of multivariate analysis. Euclidean distances between resulting communities were used as an indicator of the possible deviation from the unburned successional pathway. Our results pointed to the possibility that different successional pathways may exist depending on fire occurrence and recurrence. In the absence of fire, the vegetation is dominated by pioneer species, mainly Pinus. With the passage of time this vegetation will become dominated by later successional tree species (Quercus). However, when early-successional communities are affected by fire, the succession can be diverted. A single fire is enough to change Pinus forests into alternative stable states dominated by Rosmarinus officinalis shrub communities, where the colonisation of species in later successional stages is arrested. This deviation increases in high fire recurrence regimes where the vegetation changes to dwarf shrubs and herbs.
20051315|The factors determining herbaceous canopy architecture are poorly understood, especially in natural and semi-natural plant communities. In this study, we tested three main hypotheses: (1) the structure of herbaceous canopies can be explained by the vertical distribution of functional groups defined by leaf width and the presence/absence of leaves on upright stem; (2) the degree of canopy stratification is greater in habitats that experience lower spatial heterogeneity in the supply of light (i.e., grasslands as opposed to forest herb layers); and (3) there is significant variation among species within a growth-form, with respect to their vertical position in the canopy. We used plant foliage height distribution data from 14 grassland and 13 forest herbaceous communities to test these hypotheses. A general linear mixed model was applied to specify the proportions of total variance in the foliage height, accounted for by the fixed effects of plants' basic growth-form properties (growth-form) and community type (forest/grassland), and by the random effects of sampling site, sampling point, and individual species. We were also interested in the correlation of the degree of the stratification with various community characteristics (productivity, other canopy properties, species richness, variation of species' traits) and light availability. There was some evidence of overall canopy stratification according to plant growth-form, since plants with leafy stem were located significantly higher. However, such a pattern of two more or less distinct layers (grasses + upright forbs and rosette forbs) occurred with consistency only in grasslands (greater homogeneity in light). The between-species variation within a growth-form was a highly significant predictor of canopy vertical structure in the 27 communities. The proportion of total observed variance, explainable through species-specific effects, was comparable to that caused by between-site differences. The effect of community horizontal pattern was less obvious, but still significant. The site by site analysis revealed that the degree to which horizontal patchiness explained variation in vertical canopy structure was negatively related to the relative importance of species-specific effects, showing that small between-species differences lead to a more obvious within-community horizontal pattern, and vice versa. The upper bound of the degree of foliage stratification, according to growth-form, was related to the variability of species light requirements and to relative (to community pool size) richness, indicating that certain aspects of canopy architecture might be explained through community species composition and diversity pattern.
20050636|The clonal growth pattern and demography of clonal fragments (aggregation of ramets derived from a common parent ramet) in the pseudoannual plant Trientalis europaea were studied in field conditions from 1991 to 1993. During this period the population of clonal fragments declined, with a half-life of 7.4 years. Number and size of the clonal progeny and stolon length were positively related to the size of the mother ramet. Survival rates of ramets and tubers increased with size. The rate of clonal growth was low: after three years, about 70% of the clonal fragments had only one ramet. This suggests that the pseudoannual growth habit in T. europaea is more important as mechanism of perennation than of ramet multiplication. Field data were used in a simulation model of architecture and population dynamics of clonal fragments. About 10% of the clonal fragments survived to the end of the simulation (15 years) and the mean survival was 4.7 years. The model predicted a positive correlation between persistence of the clonal fragment and number of ramets produced. Sensitivity analysis showed that the production of a daughter ramet of at least the same size as the parent ramet was the most important pathway for the survival and the number of ramets of the clonal fragment, whereas the production of secondary ramets had a very small effect. This confirms the interpretation of the pseudoannual life-cycle as a mechanism of ramet replacement in this species. Sensitivity analysis also revealed that changes in survival probabilities of the smallest ramets had the largest impact on clonal fragment dynamics. This reflects the important role of the smallest size class of ramets as a source of new vegetative propagules, maintaining a hierarchy in the size structure of the population.
41429058|Changes in species composition during succession are driven by biotic and abiotic factors leading to a multitude of niches occupied by distinct species. Gradient analyses of plant communities provide opportunities to approximate the niche position of species along a successional gradient. Several plant traits have been used to explain mechanisms governing successional sequences, but generalising changes in species traits during primary succession is still controversial. This study examined whether the seed mass and the optimum temperature for germination could explain the niche position of several glacier foreland species along a primary successional gradient in the Austrian Central Alps. We hypothesised that pioneer species should possess lighter seeds and a lower optimum temperature for germination than late successional species. We found significant differences in the seed mass between species, but the seed mass did not correspond with the assigned niche position on the successional gradient. Germination responses to temperature also differed significantly between species.Pioneer species performed better at lower temperatures than late successional species, suggesting that the optimum temperature for germination is a driver of niche separation. We discuss the interactions between seed traits and environmental conditions along the primary successional gradient emphasising the importance of temperature requirements for the germination. Differences in the regeneration characteristics are a major cue governing species turnover in glacier foreland succession.
20146906| Precipitation quantity has been shown to influence grassland aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) positively whereas experimental increases in of temporal variability in water availability commonly exhibit a negative relationship with ANPP. We evaluated long term ANPP datasets from the Konza Prairie Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) program (1984-1999) to determine if similar relationships could be identified based on patterns of natural variability (magnitude and timing) in precipitation. ANPP data were analyzed from annually burned sites in native mesic grassland and productivity was partitioned into graminoid (principally C grasses) and forb (C herbaceous) components. Although growing season precipitation amount was the best single predictor of total and grass ANPP (r = 0.62), several measures of precipitation variability were also significantly and positively correlated with productivity, independent of precipitation amount. These included soil moisture variability, expressed as CV, for June (r = 0.45) and the mean change in soil moisture between weekly sampling periods in June and August (%wv) (r = 0.27 and 0.32). In contrast, no significant relationships were found between forb productivity and any of the precipitation variables (p &gt 0.05). A multiple regression model combining precipitation amount and both measures of soil moisture variability substantially increased the fit with productivity (r = 0.82). These results were not entirely consistent with those of short-term manipulative experiments in the same grassland, however, because soil moisture variability was often positively, not negatively related to ANPP. Differences in results between long and short term experiments may be due to low variability in the historic precipitation record compared to that imposed experimentally as experimental levels of variability exceeded the natural variability of this dataset by a factor of two. Thus, forecasts of ecosystem responses to climate change (i.e. increased climatic variability), based on data constrained by natural and recent historical rainfall patterns may be inadequate for assessing climate change scenarios if precipitation variability in the future is expected to exceed current levels. 
41429361|Euphorbia pedroi is a narrow endemic species with three known populations located in coastal areas of western Portugal. This study focused on the reproductive biology of this species from flowering to dispersal, aiming to identify the factors causing decrease in seed production potential and to assess the spatio-temporal patterns of seed production at the individual and population levels. The abortion of reproductive structures, particularly seeds, represented a major fraction of losses in the potential seed production of E. pedroi. Moth larvae destroyed a variable proportion of cyathia in a large number of plants from the two populations regardless of their degree of isolation. Furthermore, generalist and specialist pre-dispersal seed predators were responsible for temporally variable seed losses unrelated with variables indicative of plant size and fecundity, and showing no consistency at the individual level. Specialist seed-wasps inflicted the highest losses to E. pedroi and their impact was intimately associated with the magnitude of yearly variation in seed production. This finding highlights the role of the inter-annual variation in seed production as a key feature in this plant-seed predator system. The effect of the two groups of seed predators on the reproductive output of E. pedroi was additive and those insects do not seem to exert an important selective pressure on the traits studied. The proportion of intact seeds produced by E. pedroi differed between locations, but not between individuals within each population, highlighting the major contribution of larger plants to the seed pool.
40305456|We conducted a comprehensive census of the vascular epiphytes in a lowland forest in Panama by means of a canopy crane. In 0.4 ha of ca. 40-m tall forest, 103 species of vascular epiphytes with 13,099 individuals were found. The orchids were the most important family both in species and individual numbers, accounting alone for > 40% of all species and > 50% of all individuals. There was a clear vertical segregation of species with a concentration at intermediate heights: more than 50% of all individuals were found between 15 m and 25 m above ground. Tree species identity, tree size and the position of a tree in the forest ("space") all influenced species composition. However, none of the two environmental variables nor space alone explained more than 10% of the total variation in epiphyte assemblages in several canonical correspondence analyses. By far the largest proportion of the observed variation remained unexplained and is arguably due to mere chance. In the future, our results will be used as a baseline data-set for the direct observation of the long-term dynamics in a diverse epiphyte community.
20146871|We studied avian frugivory and seed dispersal in a dioecious shrub, Rhamnus alaternus, focusing on the quantitative and qualitative components of effectiveness. The study took place at three locations in the northeast of the Iberian Peninsula, and examined bird behaviour, intensity of feeding, and the consequences for seedling emergence. The coincidence between the bird breeding season and fruit ripening of R. alaternus in the absence of other ripe fruit, generates a monospecific interaction. The extant frugivorous species were mainly legitimate seed dispersers and their abundance was low. Sylvia melanocephala and S. undata were the most important at one site whereas S. atricapilla, Erithacus rubecula and Turdus merula predominated at the other two sites. Fruit handling took place directly on the branches. Bird species used microhabitats differently as first post-feeding perch, which usually was a short distance away. The low density of frugivorous birds in all localities, among others factors, resulted in satiation of the disperser community and many mature fruits unconsumed. Both adults and juveniles feed upon the plants and their foraging patterns are similar. Adults of S. melanocephala were observed to feed fruit to nestlings and consequently a second phase of dispersal potentially arises from the transport of fecal sacs. Pulp removal and passage through the digestive tract increased the probability of seedling emergence. This plant-dispersal interaction has important consequences, both positive and negative for the plant. Positively, the fruiting of R. alaternus at a time when other ripe fruits are not available avoids interspecific competition for seed dispersers. In addition, a low density of seed rain may reduce intraspecific competition. Negatively, the low density and small size of the breeding frugivorous bird community limit fruit handling and removal away from the parent plants, while the territorial behaviour of birds at that time of the year reduces the potential distances of seed dispersal.
23267396|In California prairies, native perennial grasses have been almost entirely replaced by Eurasian winter-annual grasses. Landscape-scale descriptions of perennial versus annual grass distribution are lacking. To quantify perennial persistence in California grasslands, 50 randomly selected grassland meadows were sampled within three latitudinal belts of central California, from the Pacific coast inland to the Central Valley. Native perennial grasses were present at all but four of the sampling sites, although usually at low density. Proximity to the Pacific coast was positively correlated to perennial grass cover at all latitudes. Annual degree days above 18 C and increasing slope were significantly negatively correlated to perennial grass dominance, and average warm season precipitation was significantly positively correlated to perennial dominance. Cover of non-native annual grasses was significantly lower in prairies <2 km from the coast than in all other sites. Non-native perennial grasses were occasionally important grassland community components at sites near the coast, but relatively uncommon inland. These results suggest that environmental conditions near the California coast tend to increase the success of perennial grasses, including exotic perennials. Intensity and duration of seasonal water stress likely play a central role in determining perennial grass distribution in California.
41508846|The impact of herbivores on herbaceous plant communities is usually attributed to direct consumption of plants. We hypothesized that goats affect herbaceous plants both directly (consumption by foraging) and indirectly, by changing environmental conditions through modification of woody plant structure. We assessed the effects of goats browsing on environmental conditions, landscape structure, and herbaceous plants to link the direct and in indirect, effects of goats on herbaceous communities. Our model system was the Mediterranean woodland in Mt. Carmel, Israel. This is a two-phase mosaic landscape, composed of herbaceous (open) and woody patches. We delineated 10 plots of 1000 m, goats were introduced to five plots and five plots remained without goats. We monitored plant species richness and composition in two adjacent patch types (woody and open) in each plot. For each patch type, in all plots, we collected data on environmental conditions. We analyzed landscape structure using landscape metrics derived from a high-resolution vegetation map. We found that goats modified the structure of woody plants and hence the landscape mosaic. This alteration was associated with changes in environmental conditions, with more light penetration and higher temperatures. The impact of goats on the herbaceous plant community depended on patch type. In open patches, goats affected the herbaceous community mostly by direct consumption, whereas in woody patches they affected the herbaceous community mainly by modification of abiotic conditions. Our results stress the importance of considering landscape and patch structure in analyzing the effect of herbivory on plant communities.
20146818|The causes of linear relationships between local species richness and the size of the actual species pool in closed subalpine meadow communities and open plant communities of the alpine stony substrate (the Greater Caucasus Mountains) were analyzed using a computer simulation model. The results demonstrated that this relationship is insufficient evidence for the variation of local species richness among communities is wholly or partly determined by regional processes (the species-pool hypothesis). A relatively proportional ratio between these variables can also arise where local species richness and the size of the species pool both depend on local processes, or where local species richness is determined by local factors alone while the size of the species pool is determined by both local and regional factors.
40305614|Nine temperate grass species were screened for their potential to grow in the low-light conditions typical of gaps in dense vegetation. To this end, photosynthetic photon flux densities (PFD) were simulated in a growth chamber (PFD 100, 50 or 25 jimol photons m s ). Relative and absolute growth rates (RGR and AGR, respectively) of the species were regressed on ten different ecophysiological and morphogenetic plant attributes. No significant relationships were found between plant attributes and relative growth rate, while six attributes explained a significant proportion of the interspecific variance in absolute biomass growth: net photosynthetic rate at growth PFD (
20146370|We examined the importance of the dwarf mistletoe Arceuthobium americanum in determining the size-class structure of Pinus contorta var. murrayana forests in the central Oregon pumice zone. We considered the interrelationships among A. americanum abundance, P. contorta population structure, soil type, site topography, the density of competing tree and shrub species, and understory woody litter. We found that A. americanum was associated with reduced live basal area (P &lt 0.001) and increased bole diameter variability (P &lt 0.001) of P. contorta, and also with an increase in the density of saplings and seedlings (P &lt 0.001) at the expense of dominant and tall-intermediate trees. Saplings and seedlings were over 15 times as dense in heavily infested stands as in uninfested stands. Reflecting this shift toward smaller size classes, each unit increase in stand-level dwarf mistletoe rating (DMR) reduced live basal area by 1.32 m/ha and reduced the density of dominant-sized trees by 45 trees/ha. The significant reductions in live basal area and the density of dominant trees contrast with other studies conducted in P. contorta stands containing A. americanum. However, DMR uniquely explained less than 25% of the total site-level variance in all size class variables except sapling density (36%), and varied in importance relative to interspecific competition between Pinus ponderosa and P. contorta, the effects of abiotic factors, and intercohort dynamics in determining the structure of P. contorta stands across the study site. DMR uniquely explained less of the variance in live basal area (12%) than abiotic factors (28%) and P. ponderosa density (16%), and only 15% of variability in the density of the dominant P. contorta size class. Furthermore, the relative effects of DMR on specific P. contorta size classes varied across patch- and stand-level spatial scales. We conclude that the relative importance of the effects of A. americanum on specific P. contorta size classes depends on spatial scale, and should be interpreted in relation to patch dynamics, site-level topoedaphic variability, and interspecific competition among the dominant tree species present.
23267471|One of the challenges of understanding habitat requirements of endangered species is that the remaining populations may not be in optimal habitat, requiring experimentation to determine optimal habitat and to guide management. A better knowledge of its habitat requirements is important for the conservation of Streptanthus bracteatus, a rare annual of central Texas woodlands. The habitat requirements of a rare, declining species like S. bracteatus can also provide insights into anthropogenic habitat degradation and into previous disturbance regimes. We conducted a garden experiment and a transplant experiment to determine the effect of different light environments on the growth and reproduction of S. bracteatus. Higher levels of light improved S. bracteatus performance, especially fecundity. The optimum level of combined canopy and understory cover at the height of a S. bracteatus plant (0.5 m above ground) was less than 50 %. The remaining populations of S. bracteatus are in sub-optimal habitat because it is not open enough. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that this species was a "fire-follower." The results also support the hypotheses that central Texas woodlands were once more open and that fire played an ecological role in these woodlands, an example of the ecological requirements of a rare species revealing past community structure and dynamics.
20050842|The sources of seed for seedbank build-up in an acidic grassland were identified from analysis of differences in seedbank build-up over one year between plots where the input of rabbit pellets to 'seed-free' soil had either been left or removed. In parallel, the flux of seed arriving in rabbit pellets was monitored. Pellet seed content and total seed input were highest in late summer/early autumn and again in the spring. The seed content of the pellets was dominated by a small number of species: Sagina apetala, Senecio jacobaea, Urtica dioica and Veronica arvensis. Smaller seeded species were more likely to be present as germinable seed in the pellets. Seedbank build-up as a result of wind, splash or adhesive dispersal totalled 547 seeds
41508749|This study aimed to better document the diversity and distribution patterns of vascular cryophilous species across major habitat types in a highelevation Mediterranean system in central Italy. The research addressed the following questions: (a) whether different habitats support similar levels of biodiversity in terms of total vascular plants richness and cryophilous species richness, and (b) how each habitat contributes to the total cryophilous species diversity. A random stratified sampling approach based on a habitat map was applied to construct rarefaction curves for overall cryophilous species richness and habitat type-specific cryophilous richness. Rarefaction curves were also constructed for all-species and exclusive species. To determine whether the targeted species represented a constant proportion of all species, the ratio between the rarefaction curves of the cryophilous species and all species was also calculated. The results highlight the importance of the different habitat types in overall and cryophilous species conservation because these different habitat types had progressively higher richness values. At the regional scale, steep slopes had the highest species diversity, the greatest exclusive species richness and a steep rarefaction curve. The diversity pattern of cryophilous taxa was not related to the general pattern of total species richness, with these species being more common in three habitat types with extreme environmental conditions: ridges, cliffs, and screes. For the establishment of successful biodiversity conservation programs, it is imperative to include species-poor habitats containing a high proportion of cryophilous species, which are considered to be threatened by climate warming.
20050730|In 1947, W. J. Eggeling published an account of forest succession at Budongo, Uganda. This interpretation was based on a large-scale comparative plot study, performed in the 1930s and 1940s. This account, with its implication that species richness declines in late succession, endures as a controversial corner-stone in theories and disputes about community diversity. Data have now been collected over six decades from five of Eggeling's original plots. This paper evaluates Eggeling's successional interpretation of the Budongo vegetation. The first set of analyses assesses the consistency of the original data with the predictions of compositional progression and convergence implicit in Eggeling's model. The second analyses do the same for the time-series observations. A logical approach shows how temporal information may be derived from both between plot, and within plot, evaluations using size-structured data. A Detrended-Correspondence-Analysis (DCA) of canopy-tree composition, from the original data, ranks the plots in perfect correspondence to Eggeling's successional sequence. A 'development-scoring' procedure is developed using passive-ordination against this sequence; this is then applied to composition by plot and stem-size class. Eggeling's original data are consistent with each prediction assessed. The analyses show compositional progression and apparent convergence across the plot series, and also progression and convergence within each plot. A monodominant-Cynometra forest is the natural end-point of this progression. The time-series results, though in apparent agreement for one early successional plot, do not generally accord with Eggeling's ideas. The analyses illustrate a general means for evaluating explicit and implicit compositional trends in communities with structured populations.
20146380|Barrier island dune systems exhibit strong geographic contrasts in the interaction between extrinsic disturbance from storm overwash and intrinsic biogeomorphic recovery processes. To examine how these interactions shape dune plant species diversity, I sampled species cover and topography along frequently storm-overwashed (South Core Banks, North Carolina) and infrequently overwashed (Sapelo Island, Georgia) barrier islands. The observed compositional and diversity patterns were in agreement with a complex systems model in which extrinsic overwash exposure is either reinforced (South Core Banks) or dampened (Sapelo Island) by intrinsic biogeomorphic controls of topography. A large spatial-scale regularity in the distributional pattern of along-shore species diversity was correlated to primary foredune height on South Core. On Sapelo, a fine-spatial scale differentiation of species diversity patterns was less strongly correlated to topographic metrics. There were no significant differences between islands in along-shore alpha diversity (Shannon-Weiner index). However, Sapelo was more diverse given its smaller area and finer-scale habitat heterogeneity. I posit that the relevancy of the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis is weak when examining diversity patterns along a shore disturbance gradient. Intrinsic biogeomorphic processes decouple the direct cause-and-effect relationship between disturbance and diversity, a basic assumption of IDH. I posit that the Dynamic Equilibrium Model may be a more generally applicable conceptual framework. DEM incorporates the interaction of intrinsic and extrinsic processes that shape habitat heterogeneity, a prerequisite for understanding how complex systems interactions shape diversity patterns.
20146956|We studied mechanisms of vegetation change in fens subject to succession from open water to floating mats and finally herbaceous rich-fens. Earlier research showed that these systems are characterized by transient seed banks. Our main question was whether seedlings of later successional fen stages are already present in earlier stages, remaining subordinate in the vegetation until conditions become suitable for them. If, however, conditions during succession change in a way that only a limited set of species can survive as seedlings during each of the successional stages, no seedling bank will exist. The transient character of the seeds would then imply that seeds will not germinate and will subsequently die and that seeds that have germinated in the "wrong" stage will not become established. We hypothesized that: (1) germination and seedling survival of fen species are significantly better in the successional fen stage for which these species are characteristic, (2) as a consequence no seedling banks occur in these fens. In a field experiment, seeds of five characteristic fen species in the standing vegetation of three successional fen stages i.e. raft fen, quaking fen and rich fen were sown in each of these stages in a turf pond in the Tienhoven area, The Netherlands. Germination and seedling survival were measured over two growing seasons together with environmental variables. Germination was higher in the "own" stage for all species groups as was survival for quaking fen species and rich fen species. For both these stages, percentage of germination and survival of four out of five characteristic species were significantly higher in the "own" stage. Germination and survival can be considered stage-dependent and it was concluded that seedling banks do not exist in these fens. Site-specific environmental variables act as a sieve and differentiate on species presence already during early life history stages. We found clues that the environmental sieve acts at the level of nutrient availability, tolerance for high sulphide concentration and light climate. Because of the transient seed bank and absence of a seedling bank in these fen wetlands, successful establishment of species necessitates a continuous dispersal of characteristic species until the environmental conditions permit establishment. This also implies that species of the whole successional sere should be present within dispersal distance.
23500368|Soil resource heterogeneity has clear effects on plant root development and overall plant performance. Here we test whether contrasting vegetation types have similar or different responses to soil patches of differing resource availability. We examined the fine root responses of grassland and forest vegetation at the northern edge of the Great Plains to transplanted patches of resource-poor and resource-rich soils, using rhizotron imaging. Every aspect of measured root behavior, including root length, production, mortality, turnover, variability and size distribution, varied significantly between patch types, and most aspects also varied between vegetation types. Most importantly, differential responses to patches between grassland and forest were shown by significant interactions between patch type and vegetation for two response variables. First, root length variability was significantly lower in resource-rich compared to resource-poor patches in forest but not grassland. Second, the proportion of very fine roots was significantly greater in resource-rich than resource-poor patches in forests but not grassland. Thus, compared to grassland, forest more fully occupied resource-rich patches relative to resource-poor patches by allocating more growth to very fine roots. We report the first example of significant differences between vegetation types (grassland and forest) in root responses to soil resource heterogeneity measured in a field experiment. The relatively high ability of forest roots to more fully occupy resource-rich patches is consistent with the global expansion of woody vegetation and associated increases in soil heterogeneity.
20146371| Eleven Midwest North American grassland plant species differed in their construction, production, and placement of fine and coarse belowground biomass in the soil profile after having been grown in containers in the field for two and a half growing seasons. Based on the patterns of root system structure and resource utilization, the species we examined could be classified as 1) legumes, 2) high-nitrogen rhizomatous C species, and 3) a separate gradient of differentiation from tall- to short-statured species (i.e. tallgrass to shortgrass species). Legumes depleted water evenly throughout the soil profile, with little capacity for acquisition of inorganic nitrogen throughout the 1m soil profile. The three rhizomatous species had shallow fine root distributions, a large relative investment in shallow rhizomes, and moisture and
40606973|Grazing constitutes a selective pressure on vegetation recruitment through modification of the seed banks. Here we address changes in seed bank density and its life history trait composition in centuryold pastures, where contrasting reindeer densities have developed during the last decades. We cover the actual scales used by these wide-roaming herbivores by sampling 70 productive tundra habitats over 7,421 km in the reindeer summer pastures of Northern Norway. Results showed that the seed bank density was significantly lowered where reindeer densities had increased in recent decades, whereas the century-long history of grazing probably explains the main seed bank traits typical of grazing tolerant plants. The dominant trait characteristics were small seeds (< 0.5 mg), seeds lacking dispersal mechanism and individuals with a graminoid growth form. Finally, differences between regions introduced trait variation independent of grazing history, reinforcing the importance of using scales covering several contexts when designing ecological studies.
41508746|Anemone coronaria, an attractive Mediterranean geophyte, seems to disappear from grazingprotected areas in Israel. We experimentally examined the ecological mechanism driving the decline of this geophyte. Ten plot-pairs were established, half we fenced as grazing exclosures and half were grazed by beef cattle. Grazing clearly reduced herbaceous biomass, increased relative solar photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) at ground level, but had almost no effect on soil properties. Grazing did not affect the number of flowers and young fruits produced by A. coronaria, nor the percentage fruit-set at the plot scale, indicating no effect on flowering, pollination, or on resource allocation to reproduction. Five years after grazing exclusion, Anemone seedling and adult plant densities were higher in grazed than in ungrazed plots. We propose a model explaining our results that can be applied also to other similar ecosystems: excluding grazing increased biomass and height of the herbaceous community and reduced relative PAR at ground level. Consequently, seedling, adult plant and flowering Anemone plant densities were lower in ungrazed plots. We recommend adding seasonal grazing as a management tool when vegetation outcompete light demanding geophytes that we wish to conserve.
23362472|Tree carbohydrate reserves are usually compromised following insect outbreak, which results in a delay in leaf emergence and a reduction in growth, especially in cold environments. However, in recent times, severe defoliation of subarctic mountain birches (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) by the winter moth (Operophtera brumata) has not induced such responses. This may be the result of a warming climate stimulating plant primary metabolism. We examined if increasing thermal sum (sum of daily mean temperatures above +5 C, d.d.) and complete foliage loss affected the concentrations of carbohydrates in sap, juvenile leaves, and fine roots of mountain birches in northern Finland and Norway. The sampling was conducted at the beginning of the growing season, two years after the insect outbreak. We also investigated the morphologic properties of mature leaves and the shoot growth of the trees. Our results showed that the carbohydrate concentrations in leaves and roots (averages 67.8 and 12.5 mg g -1 DW, respectively) decreased in defoliated trees with increasing thermal sum (>400 d.d.), whereas the response in intact trees was the opposite. The carbohydrates in the sap were unaffected by defoliation or thermal sum accumulation. The leaf area of mature leaves and the height growth of long shoots were greater in trees at warmer sites, irrespective of defoliation. However, defoliation increased the leaf weight per area (SLW: specific leaf weight). We conclude that under warmer growing conditions, low early-season leaf and fine root carbohydrate concentrations of previously defoliated trees cannot be used as indicators of aboveground growth.
40305657|Globally, temperate grasslands and meadows have sharply declined in spatial extent. Loss and fragmentation of grasslands and meadows may impact biodiversity, carbon storage, energy balance, and climate change. In the Pacific Northwest region of North America, grasslands and meadows have declined in extent over the past century. Largely undocumented in this regional decline are the grass balds of the Oregon Coast Range, isolated grasslands in a landscape dominated by coniferous forests. This study was conducted to quantify the spatial extent and patterns of grass bald change. Five balds in the Oregon Coast Range were evaluated using historical aerial photographs and recent digital orthophoto quadrangles (DOQ). Over the time period of study (1948/1953 to 1994/2000), bald area declined by 66%, primarily from forest encroachment. The number and average size of bald vegetation patches declined, while edge density increased. Tree encroachment into balds was inversely related to distance from nearest potential parent trees. Spatial patterns of bald loss may result from a forest to bald gradient of unfavorable environmental conditions for tree establishment and/or seed dispersal limitation. Species dependent on balds may be at risk from loss of bald area and increased fragmentation, although metrics of habitat fragmentation may not reflect species- specific habitat requirements. Tree encroachment patterns and increased bald edge densities suggest increasing rates of bald loss in the future. The remote sensing nature of this study cannot determine the fundamental causes of bald decline, although prior research suggests climate change, cessation of native burning, successional changes in response to prior wildfires, and cessation of livestock grazing all may have potential influence.
20051208|Climbers are considered heliophytes. They are copious at the margins of forests and natural and man-made clearings. The objective of this paper was to study the initial growth of seedlings maintained under full sunlight and shaded conditions (under a vegetation canopy). The species studied were: Aristolochia galeata, Arrabidea triplinervia, Bidens brasiliensis, Canavalia parviflora, Chamissoa altissima, Cissus sicyoides, Dalechampia pentaphylla, Dicella bracteosa, Dioscorea sp., Gouania virgata, Mascagnia anisopetala, Mutisia coccinea, Oxypetalum molle, Pithecoctenium crucigerum, Rynchosia phaseoloides, Serjania multiflora and Solanum flaccidum. The initial growth of the seedlings was followed under two conditions: at the margin and under the canopy of a mesophyllous tropical forest (224955 S-470633 W). The climbers showed high rates of growth in sunlight when compared to those under canopy. Most of the species presented higher growth of the shoot than roots but in general no significative differences between root/shoot were found in both treatments. Bidens, Cissus, Mutisia and Pithecoctenium showed a very high mortality rate under canopy but, most of the studied species survived under deep shaded forest for approximately 100 days.
20050411|In several phases of assessing implications of stratospheric ozone reduction for plants, biological spectral weighting functions (BSWF) play a key role: calculating the increase of biologically effective solar ultraviolet-B radiation (
40666572|Based on the hypothesis that both plant size and local conspecific density influence allocation to female/male functions, we explored the relationship between plant height, local conspecific density, sexual expression, and fruit production in the andromonoecious shrub Caesalpinia gilliesii. We quantified the total number of perfect and staminate flowers, the pollen received and fruits produced per plant in two populations, and estimated phenotypic gender and fruit set. Local density failed to explain phenotypic gender, nevertheless, plant height and fruit set increased with local density in one population where, in addition, the slopes for the size-dependent sex allocation curve were steeper. As observed for other plant species, this suggests that between population differences in resource availability is the main underlying factor for the observed population differences in the size-dependent allocation pattern to flowers and fruits. On the other hand, the number of staminate and perfect flowers per plant increased with plant height and the fastest increase of staminate flowers resulted in a malebiased size-dependent sex allocation strategy in both populations. Since pollination intensity was not correlated with plant height in any population, the observed allocation strategy cannot be attributed to differences in pollen availability between different sized individuals, but to differences in plant size. Finally, because fruit set and total fruit number increased with plant height in one population, the obtained results provide further evidence that animal-pollinated, andromonoecious species may exhibit a male-biased size-dependent sex allocation strategy, which may favor female fecundity.
20146652|We investigated factors affecting seed rain beneath nine fleshy-fruited fruiting plant species growing in a 1-ha plot of planted Pinus thunbergii in central Japan. We tested whether the numbers of seeds and seed species dropped by birds beneath fruiting plants were correlated with the number of fruits removed by birds from the plants. Most of fruiting plant species with high fruit removal had significantly high seed rain. Both the numbers of seeds and seed species dropped were significantly, positively correlated with the number of fruits removed across for all fruiting plant species. Therefore, fruit removal predicted the difference among heterospecific fruiting plants in seed rain. We also tested whether the number of fruits removed from fruiting plants by birds was related with fruit crop size, fruit size, and height of the plants, and the numbers of fruits and fruit species of neighboring plants near the plants. Most of fruiting plant species with high fruit crop size had significantly high fruit removal. The number of fruits removed was significantly, positively correlated with both the fruit crop size and the number of neighboring fruits across the nine fruiting plant species. However, the effect of the neighboring fruit density on fruit removal was lower remarkably than that of fruit crop size. Therefore, fruit crop size best predicted the differences among heterospecific fruiting plants in fruit removal. We suggest that fruiting plant species with high fruit crop size and high fruit removal contribute to intensive seed rain beneath them.
20051185|An experiment was conducted to determine if growth and biomass responses of the annual grass Bromus tectorum are affected by the magnitude and timing of nitrogen (N) pulses and if these responses are influenced by different perennial neighbor species. Nitrogen (NH:NO) was applied in three pulse treatments of varying interpulse length (3-d, 9-d, or 21-d between N additions). The total amount of N added was the same among treatments; hence, both the frequency and magnitude of N pulses varied (i.e., the longer the interpulse period, the greater the amount of N added for a single pulse). Bromus showed little response to the different N-pulse treatments. The only characteristic that varied among pulse treatments was specific leaf area (SLA), which was significantly greater when Bromus was grown under the 21-d N pulse than when grown under the 3-d or 9-d N pulses. Bromus height, leaf and tiller numbers, leaf area and aboveground biomass were not affected by the N-pulse treatments nor were tissue-N contents and concentrations. However, Bromus production and tissue-N were significantly different when Bromus was grown with different perennial neighbor species. Tiller production, aboveground biomass, and seed numbers of Bromus were lowest when the perennial neighbor was the tussock grass Agropyron desertorum, intermediate when the neighbor was the evergreen shrub Artemisia tridentata, and greatest when the neighbor was the deciduous shrub Chrysothamnus nauseosus. N contents of Bromus leaves were also lowest when the neighbor was Agropyron. In contrast, root N uptake capacities were greatest for Agropyron-Bromus root mixes and lowest for Chrysothamnus-Bromus root mixes. These results suggest that perennial neighbors affect growth, seed production, and N uptake of Bromus to a greater extent than the timing and magnitude of N pulses.
20050750|Growth of Rumex acetosella, a root sprouting plant, was studied in a pot experiment. Each plant of R. acetosella consisted of two ramets which were interconnected by a root about 9 cm long. One of the ramets was placed in a compartment with nutrient-rich soil, the other with nutrient-poor soil. The root connection between the ramets either remained intact or was severed at the nutrient interface after planting. Growth of new roots was prevented at the nutrient interface. The presence of a connection between the ramets did not affect biomass or shoot production in either soil compartment, indicating a poor integration of the interconnected plant systems. In the nutrient-rich environment, two to four times more shoots and biomass were produced than in the low nutrient regime. A large proportion of buds initiated on roots remained dormant, forming a bud bank. When the number of shoots or buds was expressed per g of root dry weight or per m of root length, the nutrient response was no longer evident or, in a few cases, a significant effect in the opposite direction was obtained. These results show that the greater production of buds and shoots in the nutrient-rich environment reflected an allometric relationship between root biomass and the number of buds and shoots initiated on the roots.
20050629|This study demonstrates a vegetation mapping methodology that relates the reflectance information contained in multispectral imagery to traditionally accepted ecological classifications. Key elements of the approach used are (a) the use of cover rather than density or presence/absence to quantify the vegetation, (b) the inclusion of physical components as well as vegetation cover to describe and classify field sites, (c) development of an objective land cover classification from this quantitative data, (d) use of the field sample sites as training areas for the spectral classification, and (e) the use of a discriminant function to effectively tie the two classifications together. Land cover over 39 000 ha of Australian chenopod shrubland was classified into nine groups using agglomerative hierarchical clustering, a discriminant function developed to relate cover and spectral classes, and the vegetation mapped using a maximum likelihood classification of multi-date Landsat TM imagery. The accuracy of the mapping was assessed with an independent set of field samples and by comparison with a map of land systems previously interpreted from aerial photography. Overall agreement between the digital classification and the land system map was good. The units that have been mapped are those derived from numeric vegetation classification, demonstrating that accepted ecological methods and sound image analysis can be successfully combined.
40305422|We focused on land units as landscape characteristics and selected seven typical land units on a land catena comprising two areas of southern Mongolia. Hierarchical analysis was used to test the hypothesis that a land unit's edaphic factors could explain the differences in vegetation responses to grazing. We established the survey sites at increasing distances from a livestock camp or water point within each land unit, then analysed patterns of change in floristic and functional compositions, vegetation volume and soil properties within each land unit to reveal differences in vegetation responses to grazing. We also examined the variations in floristic and functional compositions across land units to identify the edaphic factors that may underlie these differences. Changes in vegetation and soil properties at increasing distances from a camp or water point within each land unit were into three different patterns. Ordination techniques consistently indicated that land unit groups categorised using edaphic factors corresponded to those categorised using response patterns. Our study revealed that edaphic factors were responsible for the observed landscapescale differences in vegetation responses to grazing in the study areas. In addition, the mechanisms underlying vegetation responses to grazing may have been primarily determined by edaphic factors.
20050554|The annual course of frost resistance (
40305673|Greenhouse experiments were undertaken to identify soil factors that curtail growth of the exotic annual grass Bromus tectorum L. (cheatgrass) without significantly inhibiting growth of native perennial grasses (here represented by Hilaria jamesii [Torr.] Benth). We grew B. tectorum and H. jamesii alone (monoculture pots) and together (combination pots) in soil treatments that manipulated levels of soil phosphorus, potassium, and sodium. Hilaria jamesii showed no decline when its aboveground biomass in any of the applied treatments was compared to the control in either the monoculture or combination pots. Monoculture pots of B. tectorum showed a decline in aboveground biomass with the addition of Na HPOand K HPO Interestingly, in pots where H jamesii was present, the negative effect of these treatments was ameliorated. Whereas the presence of B. tectorum generally decreased the aboveground biomass of H. jamesii (comparing aboveground biomass in monoculture versus combination pots), the presence of H. jamesii resulted in an enhancement of B. tectorum aboveground biomass by up to 900%. We hypothesize that B. tectorum was able to obtain resources from H. jamesii, an action that benefited B. tectorum while generally harming H jamesii. Possible ways resources may be gained by B. tectorum from native perennial grasses include (1) B. tectorum is protected from salt stress by native plants or associated soil biota; (2) when B. tectorum is grown with H. jamesii, the native soil biota is altered in a way that favors B. tectorum growth, including B. tectorum tapping into the mycorrhizal network of native plants and obtaining resources from them; (3) B. tectorum can take advantage of root exudates from native plants, including water and nutrients released by natives via hydraulic redistribution; and (4) B. tectorum is able to utilize some combination of the above mechanisms. In summary, land managers may find adding soil treatments can temporarily suppress B. tectorum and enhance the establishment of native plants. However, the extirpation of B. tectorum is unlikely, as many native grasses are likely to facilitate its growth.
20146883| Plant establishment on sites affected by major volcanic disturbances is limited by several factors, such as lack of suitable microsites for germination and establishment in sites affected by tephra from volcanic eruptions. Even after long periods of time, tephra deposited over un-vegetated areas (agricultural fields and other barren areas) lack closed vegetation cover and in many cases late successional species. To assess limiting factors for plant establishment, a field survey in a tephra deposit from the Paricutin volcano eruption (193042.4" N, 1021203.0") and greenhouse experiments were carried out. The field survey determined the relationship between tephra depth and vegetation distribution. Greenhouse experiments determined the effect of tephra depth on establishment and growth of two dominant species in the tephra deposit surveyed, Eupatorium glabratum and Lupinus elegans. Our results suggest that size and spatial distribution of vegetation patches is related to tephra depth in the field (77% of the vegetation patches were on tephra 38.8 cm deep or less and only 2% on tephra of more than 46.8 cm). Under greenhouse conditions, Eupatorium glabratum and Lupinus elegans height sharply decreased as depth of the tephra layer increased. Lupinus elegans plants growing in tephra less than 30 cm deep had a mean weight of 10.56 g (0.53 g) compared with 3.11 g (0.46 g) for plants growing in tephra more than 30 cm deep. Our results suggest that tephra depth is a limiting factor for canopy development in barren areas affected by tephra deposition. 
20050784|Soils were sampled at three different sites within the Paulshoek area of the Leliefontein District in Namaqualand, South Africa. At one site the effect of heavy grazing on soil characteristics under shrubs and from open positions was compared to a more lightly grazed area. At this site a diverse shrub community was mostly replaced by a single species, Galenia africana, when overgrazed. In another area the effects of cultivation on soil properties was investigated. At the third site the effect of Galenia shrub size on soil properties was measured. Soils from the Paulshoek area of Namaqualand are generally infertile and very low in arbuscular mycorrhizal propagules. Patterns of nitrogen distribution at the landscape level are a result of nutrient enrichment associated with perennial shrubs. Arbuscular mycorrhizal infectivity, soil moisture and pH are also affected by shrubs. Only species capable of forming arbuscular mycorrhizas support populations of mycorrhizal propagules in their rhizosphere. Differences in plant available phosphorus under some shrubs indicate that processes associated with nutrient cycling are also affected by shrubs. Galenia tended to deplete soil moisture and increase soil pH more than other shrubs. Small stock production results in a depletion of soil nutrients at the landscape scale since larger areas of low nutrient soil develop when shrub density decreases following heavy grazing. Heavy grazing also affects soil properties indirectly through a change in shrub composition. Cultivation resulted in a decrease in soil nitrogen and organic matter, a loss which was still detectable after 20 years of fallow. Zones of nutrient enrichment and higher pH were found where Galenia established in the old field. When soil was sampled under different size Galenia shrubs a positive correlation was found between shrub diameter and nitrogen, available phosphorus and pH indicating that Galenia was capable of establishing patches in the soil with different properties rather than selecting such areas for establishment. Thus, Galenia is able to maintain soil patterns typical of Succulent Karoo although it also establishes conditions which probably ensure its success. Individual shrub species also affect soil differently with respect to some components such as mycorrhizas.
41508768|Nearest-neighbour analysis was used to examine the competitive interactions between Stipagrostis brevifolia, a C perennial grass, and two leaf succulent shrubs, Ruschia robusta and Leipoldtia pauciflora, at the ecotone between semi-arid grassland and succulent shrubland in the Karoo. The root distribution in the soil was also compared to assess the degree of overlap in the potential use of soil resources. Regressions between the combined sizes of interspecific, nearest-neighbour species and the distance between them showed significant positive correlations for S. brevifolia and R. robusta, which suggest the presence of competition. We infer from individual species regressions that the grass exerted a stronger competitive force on the shrub R. robusta than R. robusta on the grass. There was also evidence for strong intraspecific competitive relationships within S. brevifolia and R. robusta. There was no evidence of competition between S. brevifolia and L. pauciflora or among L. pauciflora individuals. S. brevifolia had the deepest root system, and was recorded at depths of 70 cm. Most of this root mass occurred between 10 and 40 cm. Ruschia robusta roots were recorded as deep as 55 cm, but more than 90% was found in the top 20 cm of the soil, creating a degree of overlap with the vertical root distribution of S. brevifolia. A clear separation in rooting depths occurred between S. brevifolia, and L. pauciflora which had only 3% of the total root mass below 10 cm. The partial overlap in the vertical root distribution between S. brevifolia and R. robusta may account for the observed competitive relationship, but each species dominates in a different layer, potentially minimising the net competition between S. brevifolia and R. robusta. Our findings demonstrate the possibility of a two-layer water-obtaining strategy in a semi-desert ecosystem, where the succulent shrubs seem to be playing the typical "grass" role described in most models of water partitioning between grass and woody plants. The stronger competitive effect of S. brevifolia on R. robusta at all the sites is of significance to species dynamics, and might be related to winter/summer rainfall dynamics at the climatic transition.
20050518|Field experiments were established to assess possible allelopathic suppression by Lantana camara L. of two indigenous tree species. The design allowed comparison of allelopathic effects with density-dependent resource competition effects. Fire and its role in competitive interactions was included as an experimental treatment. Allelopathic responses were measured in L. camara thickets by germinating and growing Alectryon subcinereus (A. Gray) Radlk. in dry rainforest ecotones (Macleay River) or Cryptocarya rigida (Meissner) in warm temperate rainforest and wet sclerophyll forest (Lake Macquarie) at 10, 20 and 30 seedlings
20050776|Populations of shrubs in a winter-rainfall (ca. 70 mm
20050700|The distribution of submerged macrophytes in the littoral zone of Lake Geneva (Switzerland) was modeled from bathymetry, wave exposure, current strength, water quality, soil type and harvesting practice. Generalized Additive Models (GAM) were used to identify the responses of three Potamogeton species and Chara sp. to these environmental parameters. The maps of original data and the spatial predictions were processed in a Geographic Information System (GIS) database. The effect of the selected environmental variables on plant distribution is discussed in relation to species adaptive strategies. GIS and GAM appear as powerful tools to proceed from the description of species response curves to environmental gradients toward the spatial predictions of species distribution under changing environmental conditions.
20146852|One of the important sources of greenhouse gases is the emission of methane from rice fields. Methane emission from rice fields is the result of a complex array of soil processes involving plant-microbe interactions. The cumulative effects of these processes at the level of individual plants influence the global atmospheric composition and make it necessary to expand our research focus from small plots to large landscapes and regions. However, present extrapolations ('upscaling') are tenuous at best because of methodological and practical problems. The different steps taken to calculate regional emission strengths are discussed and illustrated by calculations for a case-study in the Philippines. The applicability of high quality, process-based, models of methane emission at the level of individual plants is limited for regional analysis by their large data requirements. Simplified models can be used at the regional level but are not able to capture the complex emission situation. Data availability and model accuracy are therefore often difficult to match. Other common sources of uncertainty are the quality of input data. A critical evaluation of input data should be made in every upscaling study to assess the suitability for calculating regional emissions. For the case-study we show effects of differences in input data caused by data source and interpolation technique. The results from the case-study and similar studies in literature indicate that upscaling techniques are still troublesome and a cause of large uncertainties in regional estimates. The results suggest that some of the stumbling blocks in the conventional upscaling procedure are almost impassable in the near future. Based on these results, a plea is made for meso-level measurements to calibrate and validate upscaling methods in order to be better able to quantify and reduce uncertainties in regional emission estimates.
40212882|I explore the use of multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM), an extension of partial Mantel analysis, in spatial analysis of ecological data. MRM involves a multiple regression of a response matrix on any number of explanatory matrices, where each matrix contains distances or similarities (in terms of ecological, spatial, or other attributes) between all pair-wise combinations of n objects (sample units); tests of statistical significance are performed by permutation. The method is flexible in terms of the types of data that may be analyzed (counts, presence-absence, continuous, categorical) and the shapes of response curves. MRM offers several advantages over traditional partial Mantel analysis: (1) separating environmental distances into distinct distance matrices allows inferences to be made at the level of individual variables; (2) nonparametric or nonlinear multiple regression methods may be employed; and (3) spatial autocorrelation may be quantified and tested at different spatial scales using a series of lag matrices, each representing a geographic distance class. The MRM lag matrices model may be parameterized to yield very similar inferences regarding spatial autocorrelation as the Mantel correlogram. Unlike the correlogram, however, the lag matrices model may also include environmental distance matrices, so that spatial patterns in species abundance distances (community similarity) may be quantified while controlling for the environmental similarity between sites. Examples of spatial analyses with MRM are presented.
23267392|Tolerance, the degree to which plant fitness is affected by herbivory, is associated with invasiveness and biological control of introduced plant species. It is important to know the evolutionary changes in tolerance of invasive species after introduction in order to understand the mechanisms of biological invasions and assess the feasibility of biological control. While many studies have explored the evolutionary changes in resistance of invasive species, little has been done to address tolerance. We hypothesized that compared with plants from native populations, plants from invasive populations may increase growth and decrease tolerance to herbivory in response to enemy release in introduced ranges. To test this hypothesis, we compared the differences in growth and tolerance to simulated herbivory between plants from invasive and native populations of Chromolaena odorata, a noxious invader of the tropics and subtropics, at two nutrient levels. Surprisingly, flower number, total biomass (except at high nutrient), and relative increase in height were not significantly different between ranges. Also, plants from invasive populations did not decrease tolerance to herbivory at both nutrient levels. The invader from both ranges compensated fully in reproduction after 50 % of total leaf area had been damaged, and achieved substantial regrowth after complete shoot damage. This strong tolerance to damage was associated with increased resource allocation to reproductive structures and with mobilization of storage reserves in roots. The innately strong tolerance may facilitate invasion success of C. odorata and decrease the efficacy of leaf-feeding biocontrol agents. Our study highlights the need for further research on biogeographical differences in tolerance and their role in the invasiveness of exotic plants and biological control.
20051274|Contrasting results regarding elevated CO effects on leaf dark respiration (Rd) have hampered efforts to incorporate this important component of the plant carbon budget into long-term predictions of ecological responses to rising atmospheric CO. To help resolve some of these inconsistencies in the literature, we used meta-analysis to quantitatively summarize 45 area-based leaf Rd (
40305478|Here we investigate the effect of 4 years simulated atmospheric deposition of ammonium (NH) and nitrate (NO), applied alone or in combination with phosphorus and potassium (PK), on the surface phosphatase activities and nutrient acquisition behaviour of two species of moss (Sphagnum capillifolium and Hypnum jutlandicum) from an ombrotrophic peatland. Phosphatase activity was significantly enhanced by both the NH and NO treatments, particularly for Sphagnum, but the activity decreased when exposed to additions of PK. Regression analysis revealed that phosphatase activity on Sphagnum was positively related with tissue N and negatively related to tissue P concentrations. For Hypnum, a negative relationship between shoot P concentration and phosphatase activity was observed. Using a P tracer, mosses removed from plots receiving PK in combination with NH maintained their affinity for increased phosphorus uptake. These findings suggest that enhanced nutrient supply, even at modest doses, significantly alter the nutrient recycling behaviour of bryophytes.
20050797|The possibility that forest characteristics on one side of a stand boundary will be related to the characteristics of the forest type on the other side of the boundary was examined in this study for the boreal forest in Quebec, Canada. It was found that alone, due to uncertainty in the photo-interpretation process, forest density and height -- as identified by photo-interpreters -- explained only about 10% of the variability inherent in total forest volume, balsam fir volume, or percentage balsam fir volume. The addition of boundary-related variables improved this to about 15% of variability explained. This led to the conclusion that the volume at any given location in the forest is related to the distance of the location from its stand boundary, as well as the characteristics of the forest type on the other side of the boundary. However, it was concluded that the relatively small improvement in R does not justify using boundary-related information for additional forest stratification in the planning of (for example) forest inventories. Nonetheless, this work has implications for all ecosystem sampling that is based on maps derived from manual interpretation of natural phenomena.
20146619|This paper examined the scale-dependent relationships between landscape structure (e.g., slope, elevation, and overstory canopy coverage) and microclimate (e.g., air and soil temperatures and soil moisture) at different spatial scales along a 10050 m transect in the Southeastern Missouri Ozarks, USA. The landscape structure and microclimate variables were measured every 10 m along the transect during the growing season, June to September, 1996. We used the simple correlation analysis and "moving window" technique (no overlap between two adjacent windows) to examine the correlation coefficients between landscape structure and microclimate variables at scales or window sizes from 10 m to 2000 m. Because the sample size decreased rapidly in the "moving window" method, we also used the standardized cross-variogram to investigate the relationships between landscape structure and microclimate variables at a larger range of scales from 10 m to 8000 m. We found that the relationships between landscape structure and microclimate were apparently scale-dependent along the transect, suggesting the interactions between landscape structure and microclimate were stronger at some scales than others. The landscape structure variables were poor in explaining the variation of each microclimate variable at fine scales (e.g., 10 m). The correlations between elevation and microclimate variables were, in general, significantly improved with the increase of scales, while the improvement was less significant for slope and canopy coverage. Of the landscape structure variables, elevation, in general, had a higher correlation with the microclimate variables than slope and overstory canopy coverage at most scales examined. Our results suggest that small scales (e.g., &lt 100 m) are not suitable to study the relationships/interactions between landscape structure and microclimate and larger scales (e.g., &gt 500 m) are more appropriate though the relationships vary at the larger scales. Both the simple correlation analysis and standardized cross-variogram analysis were effective and, in general, consistent in characterizing the scale-dependent relationships between landscape structure and microclimate. Meanwhile, the standardized cross-variogram had the advantage to examine the relationships at large scales over the correlation analysis because the sample size reduced rapidly in the correlation analysis.
20146467|Previous studies have suggested that belowground competition for nutrients influences plant zonation in salt marshes. In this study, I tested the hypothesis that competition for nitrogen structured a clonal plant community in a nitrogen-limited salt marsh in coastal Mississippi, USA. In contrast to most previous field studies that have investigated mechanisms of competition, I examined clonal growth responses of established genets of a nitrogen-demanding low-intertidal species (Spartina alterniflora) to nitrogen addition and the removal of a nitrogen-conserving high-intertidal species (Juncus roemerianus). Nitrogen addition stimulated clonal invasion of the Juncus zone by Spartina but did not reduce the significant competitive effects of Juncus on Spartina. Simulated Juncus shade did not reduce invasion of the Juncus zone by Spartina, indicating that belowground competition reduced clonal invasion. In the last year of the study, the border shifted unexpectedly towards the Spartina zone, resulting in competitive displacement of Spartina by Juncus. Nitrogen addition did not prevent or slow this displacement, further contradicting the nitrogen competition hypothesis. Although growth rates were much more strongly limited by nitrogen in Spartina than in Juncus, nitrogen addition did not cause the displacement of Juncus by Spartina after three growing seasons. I conclude that zonation of Spartina and Juncus is maintained by preemption of space and greater tolerance of low nitrogen supplies by Juncus in the high marsh. These results contrast sharply with findings of reduced belowground competition with nutrient addition in previous studies and highlight the important role of nutrient-mediated competition for space between clonal plants.
40305596|We examined the response of seeds to heat in four geographically restricted and one widespread species of shrubby Darwinia from the fireprone region of southeastern Australia. These shrubs are killed by fire and rely on seed germination after a fire to maintain populations. We replicated the germination trials across several sites and several fruiting seasons for most species. Seeds had a high level of viability and were largely dispersed in a dormant state, except in D. glaucophylla, where seed dormancy varied significantly across fruiting seasons. The indehiscent fruit of all species readily imbibes moisture when wet and seeds are not considered to be ' hard-seeded'. All species had increased seed germination in response to a limited range of heating temperatures (generally 80100 C). Higher temperatures killed increasing proportions of seeds. This pattern was broadly consistent across species, population and seasons, although the proportion of seeds whose germination was promoted by heat varied from high (D. diminuta, D. fascicularis, D. glaucophylla) to moderate (D. biflora, D. procera). Our work highlights the importance of heat as a mechanism for influencing germination in species that are not hardseeded. Consequently, soil temperatures during a fire should strongly influence post-fire germination levels in Darwinia. The roles of other cues that promote germination, i. e. smoke, seasonal temperatures and their interactions with heat, remain to be investigated.
40212984|Carex is a globally distributed genus with more than 2000 species worldwide and Carex species are the characteristic vegetation of sedge meadow wetlands. In the mid-continental United States, Carex species are dominant in natural freshwater wetlands yet are slow to recolonize hydrologically restored wetlands. To aid in Carex revegetation efforts, we determined the dormancy breaking and temperature germination requirements of 12 Carex species. Seeds were cold stratified at 5/1C for 0-6 months and then incubated in light at 5/1C, 14/1C, 22/8C, 27/15C, or 35/30C. We found that all Carex species produced conditionally dormant seeds. The optimal temperature for germination for all but three species was 27/15C. As is the case in other species with physiological dormancy, cold stratification increased germination percentages, broadened the temperature range suitable for germination, and increased germination rates for most species, but the magnitude of the effects varied among species. Many species germinated to 80% at 27/15C without cold stratification and at 22/8C with 1 month of stratification but required much longer stratification (up to 6 months depending on the species) to germinate to 80% at 14/1C and 35/30C. Our findings illustrate how a stratification pretreatment can greatly benefit Carex seed sowing efforts by triggering rapid germination to higher percentages. We recommend that cold stratification be targeted towards species with strong dormancy or used across a wider range of species when seed supplies for restoration are limiting. For Carex revegetation, establishing Carex canopies rapidly may help to prevent the invasion of undesirable species such as Phalaris arundinacea.
40305543|Stachyurus macrocarpus is a narrowly endemic endangered shrub of which only one population remains on Chichi-jima Island (Ogasawara). We surveyed its population dynamics and reproductive states for 4 years and analyzed the population viability. In a survey of its entire distribution range, a total of 87 5. macrocarpus individuals have been found and 68 individuals have been confirmed in 2007. Thus, the actual population size is estimated to be less than 100 individuals. Environmental conditions and the results of a hand-pollination experiment suggest that low fruit setting in both sexes (female: 4.9-11.2%; hermaphrodite: 0.0%) may be caused by resource limitation. In addition, fruit predation by alien Rattus rattus was observed despite the rare fruit setting. The small effective population size (23.1-24.6 individuals) and hermaphrodite-biased sex ratio (46 hermaphrodites: 12 females) would increase the risk of extinction. The habitat of S. macrocarpus was limited to dense scrubland and forest understory, and seedling regeneration was very scarce. During the survey period, 19 individuals (21.8%) were found dead, there were only two seedling recruitments, and the annual population growth rate was 0.979. The lack of occurrence on the south and west slopes and the shortness of shrubs in open spaces suggests that S. macrocarpus suffers stress from both dryness and frequent typhoons. However, S. macrocarpus also exhibited high mortality of shoot in forest understories. These findings suggest that the suitable habitat of S. macrocarpus is likely to be narrow in Ogasawara. While the recent increase of goat grazing has not affected individual mortality, 58.6% of shoots that had been grazed by goats were dead within 2 years. As elasticity analysis had shown that larger individuals make a greater contribution to the population growth rate, repeated goat grazing would impact the S. macrocarpus population in the near future by decreasing the vitality of larger individuals. Emergency measures for protecting the shrub from goat grazing and reinforcing the population through nursery cultivation were proposed.
40666578|Anthropogenic disturbances frequently modify natural disturbance regimes and foster the invasion and spread of nonindigenous species. However, there is some dispute about whether disturbance events or invasive plants themselves are the major factors promoting the local extinction of native plant species. Here, we used a set of savanna remnants comprising a gradient of invasive grass cover to evaluate whether the species richness of Asteraceae, a major component of the Brazilian Cerrado, is affected by invasive grass cover, or alternatively, whether variation in richness can be directly ascribed to disturbance-related variables. Furthermore, we evaluate whether habitat-specialist Asteraceae differ from habitat generalist species in their responses to grass invasion. Abundance and species richness showed unimodal variation along the invasive grass gradient for both total Asteraceae and habitat-generalists. The cerrado-specialist species, however, showed no clear variation from low-to-intermediate levels of grass cover, but declined monotonically from intermediateto-higher levels. Through a structural equation model, we found that only invasive grass cover had significant effects on both abundance and species density of Asteraceae. The effect of invasive grass cover was especially high on the cerrado-specialist species, whose proportion declined consistently with increasing invasive dominance. Our results support the prediction that invasive grasses reduce the floristic uniqueness of pristine vegetation physiognomies.
40305626|The Changbaishan Nature Reserve (CNR) is the largest protected temperate forest in the world. It was established in 1960 to protect the virgin Korean pine (Pinus koraiensis) mixed hardwood forest, a typical temperate forest of northeast China. Studies of vascular diversity patterns on the north slope of the CNR mountainside forest (8001700 ma.s.l.) were conducted in 1963 and in 2006. The aim of this comparison was to assess the long-term effects of the protected status on plant biodiversity during the intervening 43 years. The research was carried out in three forest types: mixed coniferous and broadleaved forest (MCBF), mixed coniferous forest (MCF), and sub-alpine coniferous forest (SCF), characterized by different dominant species. The alpha diversity indicted by species richness and the Shannon-Wiener index were found to differ for the same elevations and forest types after the 43-year interval, while the beta diversity indicated by the Cody index depicted the altitudinal patterns of plant species gain and loss. The floral compositional pattern and the diversity of vascular species were generally similar along altitudinal gradients before and after the 43-year interval, but some substantial changes were evident with the altitude gradient. In the tree layer, the dominant species in 2006 were similar to those of 1963, though diversity declined with altitude. The indices in the three forest types did not differ significantly between 1963 and 2006, and these values even increased in the MCBF and MCF. However, originally dominant species, such as Pinus koraiensis, tended to decline, the proportion of broadleaved trees increased, and the species turnover in the succession layers showed a trend to shift to higher altitudes. The diversity pattern of the understory fluctuated along the altitudinal gradient due to microenvironmental variations. A comparison of the alpha diversity indices among the three forest types reveals that the diversity of the shrub and herb layer decreased, and some rare and medicinal species disappeared. Meteorological records show that climate has changed significantly in this 43-year intervening period, and information collected from another field survey found that the most severe human disturbances to the CNR forests stemmed from the exploitation of Ginseng roots and Korean pine nuts.
41508776|For a plant with bird-dispersed seeds, the effectiveness of seed dispersal can change with fruit availability at scales ranging from individual plants to neighborhoods, and the scale at which frugivory patterns emerge may be specific for frugivorous species differing in their life-history and behavior. The authors explore the influence of multispecies fruit availability at two local spatial scales on fruit consumption of Eugenia uniflora trees for two functional groups of birds. The authors related visitation and fruit removal by fruit gulpers and pulp mashers to crop size and conspecific and heterospecific fruit abundance to assess the potential roles that facultative or competitive interactions play on seed dispersal. The same fruiting scenario influenced fruit gulpers (legitimate seed dispersers) and pulp mashers (inefficient dispersers) in different ways. Visits and fruit removal by legitimate seed dispersers were positively related to crop size and slightly related to conspecific, but not to heterospecific fruit neighborhoods. Visits and fruit consumption by pulp mashers was not related to crop size and decreased with heterospecific fruit availability in neighborhoods; however, this might not result in competition for dispersers. The weak evidence for facilitative or competitive processes suggest that interaction of E. uniflora with seed dispersers may depend primarily on crop size or other plant's attributes susceptible to selection. The results give limited support to the hypothesis that spatial patterns of fruit availability influence fruit consumption by birds, and highlight the importance of considering separately legitimate and inefficient dispersers to explain the mechanisms that lie behind spatial patterns of seed dispersal.
41508652|At scales from microsites to entire ranges, species' distributions reflect limited adaptation and/or limited dispersal. To what extent are specific distribution patterns and processes similar across scales? We investigated environmental effectspresumed because of adaptationand independent spatial effectspresumed because of dispersalon distribution at two scales (landscape patches of approximately 1,300 m, sampled along transects, and 4-m cells, sampled in contiguous grids within populations) and on individual performance (water status, reproduction) in the California annual, Clarkia xantiana ssp. xantiana. Because water limitation helps set this species' regional borders, we expected occupancy and performance at smaller scales to correlate with topographic and soil features affecting water relations. At the patch scale, environmental features associated with reduced water stress (i.e., steep slopes that face north; coarse, soft soils; igneous rather than metasedimentary parent rock) predicted occupancy. Spatial aggregation was not detected, but incomplete occupancy of apparently suitable patches indicated that dispersal limits occupancy. At the scale of small cells, relationships between environmental variables, occupancy, density, and performance varied among populations. Associations sometimes resembled those at the patch scale but sometimes opposed them. Spatial aggregation in cell occupancy and/or density occurred in all populations, implying limited dispersal, whereas spatial aggregation of water potential values in some populations might have arisen from spatially structured unmeasured environmental variables. Limited adaptation to drought and limited patch colonization appear to affect patch occupancy in C. xantiana ssp. xantiana, whereas smaller-scale patterns indicate consistent effects of limited dispersal and somewhat variable environmental effects.
20146993|Forest paths are characterised by a zonation in vegetation composition as a result of gradients in abiotical conditions and continued recreational impact. Little is known about how much seed bank composition is affected by recreation and the existing path structure. As it is difficult to assess the contribution of seed banks to vegetation restoration, this study imparts relevant knowledge to restore vegetation on paths which are closed for recreational use. We surveyed seed bank and field layer vegetation composition in transects across path ecotones in deciduous forest. Analysis concentrated on seed bank characteristics and similarities of the seed bank and field layer vegetation in terms of ecological and seed size groups. A total of 74 species and 9,815 seedlings germinated out of the seed bank samples. The total seed density does not differ between path zones, but significant differences exist in the depth distribution and composition of the seed bank throughout transects. There is a large discrepancy between the composition of the seed bank and the vegetation. Small seeded species of disturbed environments dominate in each path zone. Typical forest species dominate in the vegetation while their contribution to the seed bank is low. Only with reference to the proportion of species of forest edges and clearings, the seed bank and vegetation do not differ significantly. Similarity between the seed bank on the path centre and the vegetation in the respective path zones decreases towards the undisturbed forest vegetation. Some competitive species like Urtica dioica and Lythrum salicaria are excessively represented in the seed bank and efficiently may obstruct further visitor use. However, these early successional species may not contribute to the conservation values of forests. Therefore management should carefully consider alternative amendments (e.g. soil scarification and seeding) to stimulate vegetation restoration.
40305542|This article delineates the compositional regions present in the Iberian-Balearic fern flora and compares these regions to previously proposed biogeographic units. It also assesses the extent to which environmental variables could explain the regions and the fern species richness gradients found within them. A combination of 40 previously published and new maps were used to compile the distribution of 123 pteridophytes on a 50 x 50 km UTM grid. Cluster analysis of the resulting 257 squares was used to classify 10 regions based on fern species assemblages. Discriminant function analysis identified the environmental variables that best explained these fern composition regions. Using generalized linear models; the number of species in each square was regressed against topography, climate, geology, environmental diversity, land use and spatial variables within each region. Two main latitudinal pteridophyte zones can be recognized in the Iberian Peninsula. These two zones are longitudinally subdivided into two sub zones. The 10 regions established significantly differ both in species richness and influential environmental variables. Climatic variables discriminate the most among regions, followed by topography, heterogeneity and geology. Pteridophyte richness varies, with richer areas being located along the coast and the main mountain ranges and the poorest areas being in the central plateaus and some north eastern and south western river basins. Species richness variation in Iberia is positively correlated with altitude range, precipitation, maximum altitude and area with siliceous soils. It is negatively correlated with the total annual days of sun, however. The fact that species richness is explained by different variables within each of the 10 regions indicates that the specific factors determining the spatial distribution of species richness vary from region to region. Some coastal regions are poorly explained by the model, and display a negative correlation with the selected causal factors. This finding suggests that persistent historic effects might play a local role in determining species assemblages in these regions.
40305721|There is still little information on effects of habitat degradation on post-dispersal seed predation at the landscape scale. The aim of this study was to determine the influence of habitat degradation and seed species on the variability of post-dispersal seedpredation rate. Experimental seed removal was investigated in six Mediterranean woody plant species, four trees (Pinus sylvestris, Quercus ilex, Acer opalus ssp. granatense, and Sorbus aria) and two shrubs (Berberis vulgaris and Crataegus monogyna), in an extensively used mosaic landscape on the Sierra Nevada massif (SE Spain). Seed depots were distributed over 2 years in five differently degraded landscape units, each one with three plots: shrubland; native forest; and dense, cleared and fenced reforestation stands. Predation was the highest in native forest, shrubland, and fenced reforestation, and the lowest in dense and cleared reforestation stands, being partially due to a positive correlation between shrub cover and post-dispersal seed predation. However, the main factors driving post-dispersal seed predation were intrinsic to seeds, as species preference explained most of the variance in our model for predation. The plant-species ranking was Quercus > Pinus > Sorbus > Berberis > Acer > Crataegus, the dominant tree species being the most depredated. These findings are novel because they suggest for the first time that species-selection patterns by postdispersal seed predators tended to remain constant through both study years in all habitats comprising a mosaic landscape, whether native forest, reforestation stands or successional shrubland.
20146797| The impacts of forest fragmentation on the pteridophyte communities of the Una region of Bahia, Brazil, were investigated by comparing species richness and ensemble diversity among areas of large forest fragments (&gt 900 ha), small forest fragments (&lt 100 ha), and landscape matrix. We inventoried the pteridophytes below 1 m in height in interiors of small fragments, interiors of large fragments (control areas), edges of fragments, edges of continuous forest, capoeiras (initial stages of forest regeneration) and cabrucas (cocoa plantations). All ferns were collected following the plot method (plots of 120  10 m, each). Sampling units were established in the six main ecotypes of the Una region. These units were allocated within three sampling blocks of 5 per 5 km, which were chosen in order to include the largest forest patches that still remain. Results suggest that fragmentation has a negative impact on species richness at the matrix and the edges of forest remnants. A similar negative matrix end edge effect is reported for diversity of those sites measured by the  Log-series Index. However, small forest fragments have pteridophyte species richness and diversity rates similar to large ones so they should be considered of utmost importance to the conservation of forest-related species in the region. 
40305742|Many areas in Europe are dominated by agricultural land use, and as a consequence, many typical forest plant species suffer from habitat loss and fragmentation. Hedgerows, one of the common elements of rural landscapes, have been considered as potential refuges for these species. The main objective of this study was to examine whether forests and hedgerows differ in environmental conditions, and whether important life-history attributes of the populations differ between the two habitat types. We selected five species commonly found in the region in both forests and hedgerows (Adoxa moschatellina, Anemone nemorosa, Circaea lutetiana, Polygonatum multiflorum and Stellaria holostea), and sampled data on 10 populations of each species in each habitat type, including measurements of light and various soil factors. Hedgerows had higher relative light availability and tended to have higher soil nutrient contents and lower soil water values than forests. The comparison of plant performance values between habitat types did not show consistent patterns across species. Anemone and Polygonatum performed equally well in hedgerows and forests, whereas Stellaria appeared to have a higher fitness in hedgerows. In contrast, Circaea showed a higher reproduction under forest conditions. For Adoxa, the results were somewhat contradictory: whereas the reproductive output of this species was higher in forests, population density was higher in hedgerows. The abiotic factors most closely related to the performance values were relative light and soil water availability. The majority of plant performance values did not differ between hedgerows and forests. We therefore conclude that the tested forest species are capable of growing also in hedgerows and will survive equally well in forest and its "surrogate" habitat.
20146925| In order to analyze the extent to which allelopathic action of Cistus ladanifer may influence the successional progression towards Mediterranean sub-climatic shrublands and the geographical distribution of other species, the inhibitory effect of Cistus ladanifer extracts on the germination of 20 Mediterranean species was analyzed. Five of the species tested were characteristic of maquis sub-climacic shrublands: Arbutus unedo, Adenocarpus argyrophyllus, Phillyrea angustifolia, Phillyrea latifolia, and Rhamnus alaternus. Tests were also carried out on 6 Cistaceae species in order to evaluate the auto-toxicity rate of allelopathic extracts: Halimium umbellatum subsp. viscosum, Halimium ocymoides, Cistus ladanifer, Cistus salvifolius, Cistus monspeliensis, and Cistus populifolius. Nine herbaceous species sharing the natural habitat with C. ladanifer were also examined. Results confirmed a clear inhibitory and delaying effect of aqueous C. ladanifer-leaf extracts on the germination of P. angustifolia, P. latifolia, R. alaternus, H. ocymoides, C. populifolius, Erysimum lagascae, Brassica barrelieri, Silene tridentata, and Moricandia moricandioides. Assays with soil collected below the canopy of the C. ladanifer community showed more pronounced inhibitory effect on sub-climacic shrub species than the aqueous extracts. In contrast, the opposite pattern was detected when analyzing the allelopathic effect of natural soil on Cistaceae and herbaceous species. Allelopathic compounds produced by C. ladanifer showed little auto-toxicity. The inhibitory effect of phytotoxic compounds accumulated in the jaral soil upon germination of A. unedo, B. barrelieri, and M. moricandioides was eliminated by heating soil at 150 C for 10 min. Phenolic compounds (i.e. ferulic, p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillic, p-coumaric, and caffeic acids) and terpenes (i.e. and -pinene) with allelopathic documented effect were detected in the aqueous extracts and soil samples used in the analyses. We suggest that the allelopathic effect of C. ladanifer may influence the composition and structure of Mediterranean communities where the species is present, since it hinders the establishment of some sub-climacic species and may reduce the area occupied by numerous herbaceous species. 
20050672|Species occurrences gathered from the literature, from atlases or from field surveys are currently used to analyze multispecific patterns, such as species richness or species geographic ranges. Such occurrences result from the independent recognitions of specimens by several botanists in particular places and at particular occasions. Thereby, the analysis of the resulting occasional 'relevs' involves the assignment of the species occurrences to spatial units such as a grid of quadrats. As a result, the distribution of occurrences among quadrats is controlled while their distribution among species is observed. In this paper we show how non-symmetric correspondence analysis (NSCA) enables the investigation of data structure by taking into account this fundamental asymmetry. We apply this new ordination technique to a list of endemic tree species occurrences in the Western Ghats (South India). We explore the interesting properties of NSCA as an ordination technique and demonstrate the usefulness of the method as a tool in biogeography. Regarding the Western Ghats, NSCA brings out the preponderance of deforestation over biogeographic history in explaining the observed multispecific patterns.
20050658|A survey of syntaxa of vegetation of North American boreal forests (class Vaccinio-Piceetea) is presented. This phytosociological survey, carried out combining the Braun-Blanquet method with numerical syntaxonomical analyses (cluster and correspondence analysis), describes the associations of the North American boreal forests, which have several species, varieties or vicariant species in common with their Eurasian counterparts, and can be placed in the class Vaccinio-Piceetea. By means of tabular and multivariate analyses, 2084 North American relevs were compared with 3273 relevs from European, Japanese and Korean boreal forest, to describe and typify 4 orders, 10 alliances and 37 associations. Diagnostic tables, ordination, clustering, and climatic, edaphic and biogeographical data were used to show floristic affinities among these syntaxa and interpret their distribution areas. Syntaxa were briefly characterized by their floristic composition, physiognomy, succession, zonation, and biogeographical distribution.
20146505|We used a common garden experiment to evaluate the isolated and combined effects of a biocontrol agent, the insect (Agapeta zoegana, Lepidoptera), and a native North American fungal pathogen (Sclerotinia sclerotiorum) on competition between the noxious weed Centaurea maculosa and the native Festuca idahoensis. In 0.5-m plots with 24 plants per plot, competition between Centaurea and Festuca was highly asymmetrical, with Centaurea strongly reducing the final biomass and reproduction of Festuca, and Festuca having no effect, or possibly a positive effect, on Centaurea. The direct effects of the biological control agents differed entirely. All Centaurea individuals died in plots receiving Sclerotinia, but Agapeta did not significantly reduce the growth of Centaurea, and apparently stimulated a compensatory reproductive response in the weed. Individual Centaurea plants that had been damaged by Agapeta produced more flowerheads, and the number of Centaurea plants with Agapeta root damage in a plot was positively correlated with total Centaurea biomass. These differences in the direct effects of the consumers were reflected in their indirect effects. In plots where Sclerotinia killed Centaurea (strong direct effects) Festuca growth and reproduction was equal to that in Festuca plots without Centaurea and the reproductive output of Festuca increased substantially (strong indirect effects). However, in the absence of Sclerotinia, the application of Agapeta did not significantly decrease Centaurea biomass (weak direct effects) and actually stimulated small, but significant decreases in Festuca reproduction and trends towards lower Festuca biomass (weak and opposite indirect effects -- Agapeta does not eat Festuca). If the direct effects of biocontrol agents on Centaurea are weak, as suggested by our results, natives are unlikely to be released from the competitive effects of Centaurea, and natives may suffer from Centaurea's compensatory response to herbivory.
20050682|In this study, we examined the effects of water depth and temperature on seedling recruitment from a prairie wetland seed bank. We collected seed-bank samples from natural and restored prairie pothole wetlands in northwestern Iowa and combined them into a single sample. We examined seedling recruitment from this seed-bank sample in an experimental study using a factorial design of 4 temperature treatments (5 night and 15 day to 20 night and 30 day) and 3 water-depth treatments (0, 2, and 7 cm). Principal Components Analysis showed that both water depth and temperature had significant effects on the composition of the seedling community as measured by changes in relative stem density and biomass. Water depth had its strongest effects on stem density while temperature had its strongest effects on biomass. For the 22 most common species, stem density varied with water depth for 95% of the species and with temperature for 50% of the species. Most species with water depth responses had lower stem counts as water depth increased, and for the majority of species with temperature responses stem density increased with temperature. Total, annual, and perennial species richness was negatively correlated with water depth. Total and annual species richness was positively correlated to temperature, while perennial species richness was unresponsive to temperature. In addition, species found at low elevations as adults emerged at higher rates in the deep water treatments while species that occurred at higher elevations as adults had their highest emergence rates in the low water treatments. Our results suggest that differences in environmental conditions along coenoclines can affect the initial distribution of species emerging from the soil seed bank. Water depth sorted seedlings according to their adult water-depth tolerances, and temperature determined the proportion of annuals in the seedling community.
20146583|Plasticity in fitness components including seed weight and seed number and fitness-related traits including biomass, plant height, leaf area, and reproductive allocation at various organization levels in response to low- and high-nutrient patches was examined in the tillering grass Panicum miliaceum. Plants were planted in boxes consisting of two patches, the central patch (CP) and surrounding patch (SP), with each containing soil with either low or high nutrients. Nutrient status of the CP and contrast between the CP and SP significantly affected root performance, leaf photosynthesis and turnover, and growth and allocation. The effects of nutrient status of the CP and contrast between the CP and SP on the fitness and fitness-related traits differed between the ortet (the original organism from which a clone was derived), tiller, and genet, suggesting that patchy soil nutrients might have different effects on plasticity in the fitness and fitness-related traits at various levels, or even at the same level. Seed weight and seed number of a genet increased with increasing leaf mortality and leaf natality, respectively. Individual seed weight of the genet was restricted by that of the ortet and tiller together, whereas the number of seeds of the genet was determined mainly by the total number of seeds of the tillers. It is inferred that reallocation of genet-leveled fitness to the ortet and tillers may be beneficial to lower and spread risk of whole genet, and that plasticity in the fitness may help whole genet better adapt to variable environments.
40305426|Successional dynamics in Mediterranean forests have been modulated by anthropogenic disturbances during thousands of years, especially in areas densely populated since ancient times. Our objective is to determine whether pine tree cover (early-successional species) and oak tree cover (late-successional species), used as a surrogate of successional stage of peri-urban fragmented forests in the Valls lowlands (Catalonia, NE, Spain), are primarily determined by (1) climate and topography; (2) anthropogenic disturbances; (3) patch structure; or (4) patch dynamics from 1956 to 1993. Quercus spp. and Pinus spp. tree cover were separately recorded on 252 randomly selected plots of 100 m, within forest patches ranging in size from 0.25 to 218 ha. Multiple linear regressions indicated that forest patch history is the most important variable determining oak and pine tree cover: new forest patches showed higher pine and lower oak tree cover than recently split patches (i.e. those that became fragmented from large forest areas after 1956). Patches already existing as such in 1956 (pre-existent patches) showed higher pine cover than recently split patches. Oak cover increased and pine cover decreased with increasing forest connectivity of the patch. Finally, highly frequented forests were related to high cover of pines. Climatic and topographic variables were not significant. We conclude that pine and oak cover in these peri-urban forests are mainly determined by recent patch dynamics, but also by the spatial pattern of patches. However, human-induced disturbance can modulate this as there is some evidence for pine being associated with a high human frequentation.
40212873|Dominant understorey species influence forest dynamics by preventing tree regeneration at the seedling stage. We examined factors driving the spatial distribution of the monocarpic species Isoglossa woodii, a dominant understorey herb in coastal dune forests, and the effect that its cover has on forest regeneration. We used line transects to quantify the area of the forest understorey with I. woodii cover and with gaps in the cover. Paired experimental plots were established in semi-permanent understorey gaps with I. woodii naturally absent and in adjacent areas with I. woodii present to compare plant community composition, soil, and light availability between the two habitats. Isoglossa woodii was widespread, covering 65- 95% of the understorey, while gaps covered the remaining 5-35% of the area. The spatial distribution of this species was strongly related to tree canopy structure, with I. woodii excluded from sites with dense tree cover. Seedling establishment was inhibited by low light availability (< 1% of PAR) beneath I. woodii. When present, I. woodii reduced the density and species richness of tree seedlings. The tree seedling com- munity beneath I. woodii represented a subset of the seedling community in gaps. Some species that were found in gaps did not occur beneath I. woodii at all. There were no significant differences between the sapling and canopy tree communities in areas with I. woodii gaps and cover. In the coastal dune forest system, seedling survival under I. woodii is dependent on a species' shade tolerance, its ability to grow quickly during I. woodii dieback, and/or the capacity to regenerate by re-sprouting and multi-stemming. We propose a general conceptual model of forest regeneration dynamics in which the abundant understorey species, I. woodii, limits local tree seedling establishment and survival but gaps in the understorey maintain tree species diversity on a landscape scale.
20146403| In the Ninole ridges of Hawai'i we investigated how landslides influence ecosystem development and modify land cover and the distribution of biomass. We estimated above and below-ground biomass, and N and P concentration in leaves (Metrosideros polymorpha) and very fine roots (all species), for vegetation developing on landslides of three age classes (young, &lt 18 yr; intermediate,  42 yr; and old ca. 124 yr) and on undisturbed soils (ca. 430 yr). The undisturbed soils were derived from ash underlain by basalt. To quantify changes in land cover and the distribution of biomass we combined our estimates of biomass with estimates of the area covered by each vegetation class. The latter estimates were obtained from the analysis and classification of color-infrared aerial photographs. Average above- and below-ground biomass for the herbaceous vegetation (young landslides) was 10.4 and 3.2 t/ha, whereas for the ohia-non ash forest (intermediate and old landslides) was 37.5 and 5.2 t/ha, respectively. For the ohia-ash forest (undisturbed sites), average above and below-ground biomass was 354.6 and 9.5 t/ha, respectively. Average foliar N for the herbaceous and ohia-non ash forest ranged between 0.80-0.84%, whereas root P between 0.056-0.040%, respectively. For the ohia-ash forest, average foliar and root P was 0.918% and 0.036%, respectively. Based on changes in vegetation cover during the last 430 yr, we estimated rate of disturbance at 15% per century or equivalently that 53 t/ha biomass per century exited through the system. The removal of ash-derived soils by landslides significantly alters successional trajectories and by doing so may be transforming the Ninole ecosystems in irreversible ways. 
40607014|Grasses and forbs compete heavily with young tree seedlings for available resources, greatly reducing tree seedling establishment success. Soil nutrient enrichment associated with agricultural intensification can increase the growth of both herbaceous and woody lifeforms growing in isolation, but may change the balance of competitive advantage when growing together. The effects of nitrogen and phosphorus enrichment on pasture biomass and competition with two Australian grassy woodland trees (Eucalyptus albens and Eucalyptus microcarpa) was investigated in a field plot trial. Soil nutrients increased pasture biomass, but had no measurable effect on tree growth in our experiment. Competition from pasture species, even at low levels, led to high tree seedling mortality and greatly reduced tree seedling growth compared with pasture-free plots. However, when pasture-free plots were excluded from the analysis, tree seedling leaf area was not strongly correlated with herbaceous biomass. Tree seedling establishment was severely restricted even at the lowest levels of pasture biomass. We conclude that increased soil fertility resulted in a competitive advantage to the pasture, and does not improve tree seedling establishment when grown either with or without exotic herbaceous pasture (grassy understorey) species.
20051323|The origin of the grassy habit during the Eocene and the development of C4 grasses during the Miocene/Pliocene boundary are discussed before the origin of primary and secondary grassland in Eurasia and North America are discussed. A comparison shows that both Northern and Southern hemisphere primary grassland originated due to climatic changes to drier conditions during the end of the Eocene, and that modern grassland vegetation types can be traced back to the Oligocene. The Eurasian steppes becomes more fragmented towards the west and south and relicts of primary grassland exists only in the most xerothermic localised habitats in central and western Europe. Secondary grassland clearly due to manmade deforestation, started with the spread of Neolithic husbandry. Southern African grasslands were however not only determined by droughty conditions, but cooler conditions at high altitudes are one of the major driving forces that prevent colonisation by trees of a generally tropical origin.
40305585|Common yew (Taxus baccata L.) stands are recognized as prioritary habitats for biodiversity conservation within the European Union. The effects of browsing on the regeneration capacity and spatial dispersal of T. baccata recruits at the European southern limit of the species in the Mediterranean Basin have been herein studied. The efficacy of T. baccata recruitment has been evaluated at six localities in the Northern Sardinia mountains, which have similar altitude, climate, soil, and vegetation but have different types of uses (three were grazed by livestock and three were not). At each site, five habitats have been identified for T. baccata seed dispersal: reproductive female T. baccata canopy, reproductive female Ilex aquifolium canopy, nonfleshy-fruited tree canopy, fleshy-fruited shrubs, and open areas. The density of seedlings was found to be greater under fleshy-fruited trees (reproductive female T. baccata and I. aquifolium) than under shrubs, whereas the sapling density was higher in shrubby habitats, especially at grazed sites due to the mechanical protection afforded by the spiny shrubs against herbivores. Land use (LU) has been found to be the most important factor in determining the spatial distribution of seedlings and saplings in relation to forest habitats. Although browsers had an ephemeral but positive effect on seed germination through their trampling and the resultant scarification, this process eventually became ineffective as was shown by the occurrence of the lowest density of saplings in those habitats where the density of seedlings was the highest. The ultimate and most important effect of browsing was the sharp decrease in the density of saplings, and their almost complete extinction, in non-shrubby habitats. This study highlights the result that, in Mediterranean ecosystems, browsing constitutes the main negative factor on T. baccata seedling-sapling transition and furthermore confirms the necessity to preserve shrubby patches in the vicinity of reproductive female T. baccata and I. aquifolium to permit the regeneration of T. baccata in the presence of livestock. Moreover, at ungrazed sites, T. baccata is able to colonize non-shrubby shady habitats. The application of different management strategies to ungrazed and grazed sites should therefore be the main direction in the management and preservation of T. baccata stands in the Mediterranean region.
41508651|Phenotypic variation within species is widespread among salt marsh plants. For Spartina alterniflora, the dominant species of low intertidal wetlands across the Altantic and Gulf coasts of the US, distinct phenological and morphological differences among populations from different latitudes have been found. To determine whether S. alterniflora plants from lower latitudes and those regenerated from Delaware tissue cultures would maintain differences from that of native plants, we conducted a field study in a natural salt marsh in Delaware, US. After two growing seasons, plant height, stem density, above-and belowground biomass, elemental composition, and nutrient resorption were measured. Natural variation in porewater salinity influenced physiological traits of Na/K ratio regulation and nitrogen resorption efficiency similarly across populations. While plant height exhibited plasticity where populations tended to converge to a similar height, several other traits remained distinct. Delaware plants had a greater rate of rhizome growth than Georgia and Louisiana plants, which correlated with a greater magnitude of fall senescence. If traits such as seasonal translocation are plastic and can change with the length of the growing season, climate warming may alter belowground biomass production of S. alterniflora in wetlands of the mid-Atlantic.
40305654|In natural plant communities, reproductive allocation can be affected by complex interactions among abiotic resources, species competition and plant size. This topic was addressed using a variety of designed mixed stands of five species (Carex elata, Carex flava, Lycopus europaeus, Lysimachia vulgaris and Mentha aquatica) under four abiotic conditions to investigate how competition and abiotic resources influence the reproductive allocation of one of the five species, C. flava. The plant mixtures varied systematically in both the relative abundance of the five species and the absolute density, and were each established with two levels of water and nutrients. In total, 176 mixtures were maintained for two growing seasons in large pots in an experimental garden. Reproductive allocation of C. flava increased from 6.8% to 9.7% under high nutrient application; however, for both nutrient levels, reproductive allocation was independent of shoot mass (sizeindependent allocation). Under low competition, reproductive allocation of C. flava decreased as its shoot mass increased, indicating a relatively high investment in vegetative structures under higher light availability. However, under strong competition, the allocation pattern changed and a constant reproductive allocation for different plant sizes was observed. Different water levels did not influence the shoot mass, seed mass or reproductive allocation of C. flava, indicating that the species was not stressed under dryer conditions. When under competitive pressure, however, the species responded with reduced shoot and seed production under more favourable water conditions. This behaviour indicates a trade-off between the ability to tolerate stress and the competitive and reproductive response of C. flava. In conclusion, C. flava was adversely affected by competition with some of the species, and competition, mediated by plant size, indirectly affected reproductive allocation. C. flava was able to modify its allocation pattern depending on the available resources and retained its reproductive allocation even under unfavourable conditions for varying plant sizes, which is interpreted as an advantageous reaction to greater competition pressure.
20146944|We combined laboratory and nursery experiments to analyse the effectiveness of sheep as endozoochorous seed dispersers of six native shrubby Cistaceae species collected in SE Spain (Helianthemum apenninum (L.) Mill., H. violaceum (Cav.) Pers., Fumana ericoides (Cav.) Grand., F. thymifolia (L.) Spach, Cistus monspeliensis L. and C. laurifolius L.), considering the main stages after seed ingestion, i.e. seed recovery, seed germination, seedling emergence and early seedling establishment. Seed recovery after gut passage was high (around 40%) for all the species, except F. thymifolia (12%). Most seeds (ca. 90%) were recovered within 48 h after ingestion for all the species, although seeds were still recovered up to 96 h after ingestion. Gut passage increased germination up to seven-fold compared to non-ingested seeds. Furthermore, seedling emergence from seeds contained in pellets was overall similar (intact pellets) to or higher (crumbled pellets) than emergence from seeds without dung. Survival of emerged seedlings and mass of seedlings after 20 days were not reduced by dung. Sheep act therefore as effective dispersers of these Cistaceae species by scattering seeds and promoting germination, while faeces do not hamper seedling establishment. We conclude that the interaction between herbivorous ungulates and these dry-fruited species may be considered a mutualism qualitatively similar to the mutualism between frugivorous vertebrates and fleshy-fruited plants.
20146873|Livestock browsing and grazing are considered serious threats to the conservation of the Juan Fernndez Islands' flora, Chile. Nowadays the elimination of grazing by cattle is very difficult. In order to prevent the entrance of cattle into the native forests, an 8.3 km-long fence was established on the main island (Robinson Crusoe). The response of the vegetation was evaluated during 27 months of exclusion. The changes in abundances and composition of species were monitored in 12 permanent plots, each of 25 m, located in ungrazed and grazed areas. We expected an increase in plant height and total ground cover in the ungrazed area, and also a directional compositional change towards forest species. We found five different patterns of variation or non-variation for the 22 species observed: (i) one species (Acaena argentea) diminished in abundance in the ungrazed area; (ii) another one (Conium maculatum) increased in the ungrazed area; (iii) one species (Vulpia bromoides) increased in the grazing area; and some species displayed no net variation, but they showed (iv) a nearly constant occurrence, or (v) they appeared and disappeared sporadically. Contrary to our hypothesis, the vegetation showed no net differences in cover on both sides of the fence. As expected, plant height increased in the ungrazed area. In this area, we detected no noteworthy changes in floristic composition towards forest species. On the contrary, four new pastureland species appeared outside of the exclusion area during the last year of evaluation. Other ungrazed sectors of the island showed qualitative differences from grazed sectors, such as major height and density of plants, and lower intensity of browsing, grazing, and trampling, attributable to a reduction of herbivorous pressure. The modest responses reported in this study could be related to the short lapse of time since the exclusion, soil compaction, overgrowth by a single species (A. argentea), great seasonal variations in different species' abundances, the reduction in the number of cattle grazing the area previous to the fence's installation, and persistent herbivory by rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus L.). We conclude that the effect of grazing by cattle is less than expected, and that there are other factors that delay the recovery of the Juan Fernndez pasturelands.
20050651|Relationships between habitat structure and spatial variations in vegetation composition were determined in catenas of central Argentina salt marsh landscapes. Vegetation was classified following a multi-technique strategy. An analysis of species distributions along an environmental gradient was made and a redundancy analysis was used to relate the environmental variables to vegetation data. The spatial covariation was evaluated through fractal analysis. The vegetation can be divided into four discrete noda that correspond to different topographic positions (summit, backslope, footslope and toeslope, respectively): nodum of Stipa trichotoma + St. tenuissima, nodum of Distichlis scoparia, nodum of Distichlis spicata and nodum of Spartina densiflora. Each of these nodum is characterized by a definite combination of floristic groups. Symmetric aggregation of vegetation borders was observed in all three sites. The existence of vegetation discontinuities along the catenas depended largely on water table depth and salinity which in turn controlled the edaphic salinity. The arrangement of sites by multivariate analysis reflected the influence of a complex gradient representing halomorphic and hydromorphic factors. -diversity was associated with abrupt changes in the physical structure of the catena for a reduced spatial dimension (300-m scale). Absolute diversity and evenness were higher on the summit and declined progressively toward the toeslope. The rate of change was higher on the backslope and the dominant species have different ecological amplitudes overlapping along the gradient. The main operational factors associated with the floristic differences are: (i) the variations in the chemical composition and the seasonal dynamics of the soil solution in the aerated layer of soils, (ii) the salinity and dynamics of groundwater, and (iii) the length of time that the soil is flooded during the rainy season (summer). The fractal dimension was close to 2, implying weak spatial dependence. Fractal dimension varied as a function of scale. The fractogram only revealed a significant spatial dependence on the summit. This spatial dependence was associated with short distances of gradient showing that the organizational pattern of Distichlis spp.- Spartina was related to combinations of underlying environmental factors rather than to a specific position in the catena. The catenas are highly structured spatially, floristic compositions are inextricably linked to this structure. Habitat complexity may directly affect associated vegetation by regulating the hydrohalomorphic conditions in the aerated layer of the soils. The relationships of the habitat-floristic groups are not simple, hydromorphism interacts in a complex was with halomorphism.
40305418|We determined the incidence of curculionid beetles of the genus Lonchophorus on aborted and not aborted flower buds and developing fruits of the tree Ceiba pentandra in southeastern Costa Rica. Beetle larvae were found in reproductive parts of all trees sampled trees. The frequency of beetle larvae was greater in aborted buds and immature fruits. A positive correlation between larvae development and flower bud development indicates that female oviposition occurred in an early flower developmental stage and time until bud abortion is variable. Weevil herbivory could be considered as one of the main factors that cause flower bud and fruit abortion in C. pentandra. /// Determinamos la incidencia de curculinidos del gnero Lonchophorus en botones florales y frutos inmaduros tanto abortados como no abortados en el arbol Ceiba pentandra en el SE de Costa Rica. Las larvas de curculinidos fueron encontradas en todos los rboles muestreados. La frecuencia de larvas fue mayor en botones y frutos abortados. Una correlatin positiva entre el desarrollo larval y el desarrollo del botn indica que la oviposicin ocurre en una fase temprana de este y que el tiempo hasta el aborto es variable. La herbivora por larvas de curculinidos puede ser uno de los factores ms importantes en el aborto de botones y frutos inmaduros en C. pentandra.
23500415|The combustion of fossil fuels and associated warmer temperatures are causing a global increase in the availability of soil nutrients such as nitrogen. This will have pronounced effects on plants at northern latitudes that are adapted to low nutrient conditions. An experiment in northern Canada set up in 1990 has investigated the effects of long-term nutrient enrichment (fertilizer addition) and mammalian herbivore exclusion (fencing) on an understory plant community. We used this experiment to assess how 22 years of fertilization has affected investment in sexual reproduction in four herbaceous understory species. We measured reproductive output at the plot level (proportion of plants flowering) for four species (Mertensia paniculata, Epilobium angustifolium, Achillea millefolium and Festuca altaica) and at the individual plant level (biomass allocation to flower parts) for M. paniculata and E. angustifolium. Fertilization increased the probability of flowering for A. millefolium and resulted in a higher allocation of biomass to flower parts for E. angustifolium. Sexual reproduction in M. paniculata and F. altaica was largely unaffected by increased nutrient supply, and, as expected, herbivore exclusion had almost no effect on any species. Whereas plants in northern ecosystems currently reproduce mainly through clonal growth, rapidly changing environmental conditions and warmer temperatures will likely result in increased benefits of sexual reproduction. This could give a competitive advantage to species such as A. millefolium and E. angustifolium that increase investment in sexual reproduction when released from nutrient limitation.
20146702|Meadow classification studies have demonstrated the importance of water table fluctuation patterns in determining plant community composition in the western United States. However, a mechanism causing an overall increase in Poa pratensis ssp. pratensis populations and local declines in Deschampsia cespitosa populations in western montane meadows over the past century has not been defined. In order to better understand plant species interactions in these often highly grazed systems, we observed aboveground responses of Poa and Deschampsia to changes in species composition, soil moisture gradients, and clipping in the field. As well, we conducted a factorial greenhouse experiment, varying plant density, water availability, and clipping. While Poa is adapted to dry meadows and Deschampsia to wet meadows, their ranges overlap in wet conditions where soil moisture averages 50% in the early growing season. Deschampsia appears to be excluded from dry meadows where Poa is prevalent and soil moisture is closer to 30% water content in the early growing season. Our greenhouse experiment revealed that Deschampsia's competitive ability decreases, while Poa's increases, at soil moistures of 19%. However in more mesic conditions (50% soil moisture), each species aboveground biomass, tillering, and inflorescence weight was adherent to soil moisture conditions, and species interactions were less important. Our early growing season clipping treatments significantly reduced biomass of both grasses, but did not appear to favor one species over the other. This work points to the importance of soil water content in determining the performance of each plant species and the level of species interactions in montane meadows.
40305704|In habitats where disturbance is frequent, seed banks are important for the regeneration of vegetation. Sand dune systems are dynamic habitats in which sand movement provides intermittent disturbance. As succession proceeds from bare sand to forest, the disturbance decreases. At Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, we examined the seed banks of three habitat types across a successional gradient: foredunes, secondary dunes, and oak savanna. There were differences among the types of species that germinated from each of the habitats. The mean seed bank density increased across the successional gradient by habitat, from 376 to 433 to 968 seeds m, but with foredune and secondary dune seed bank densities being significantly lower than the savanna seed bank density. The number of seeds germinated was significantly correlated with soil organic carbon, demonstrating for this primary successional sequence that seed density increases with stage and age. The seed bank had much lower species richness than that of the aboveground vegetation across all habitats. Among sites within a habitat type, the similarity of species germinated from the seed banks was very low, illustrating the variability of the seed bank even in similar habitat types. These results suggest that restoration of these habitats cannot rely on seed banks alone.
23500421|Future climate change is likely to involve changes in the amount and intensity of precipitation, but also its timing during the year. To better understand how the timing of precipitation impacts plant productivity, a 27-year dataset on grass productivity for a mesic North American grassland was analyzed. Along with other climate parameters, the ability of the average date precipitation fell during different climate periods to explain grass productivity was tested. Across the 27 years, grass productivity was greater in years with more precipitation between April 15 and August 2. After accounting for differences in the total amount of precipitation during this time period, in years when precipitation between May 9 and August 27 fell later, measured grass productivity was less. Variation among years in precipitation timing was of similar importance as temperatures during critical climate periods and about 40 % of the importance of the total amount of precipitation. In all, although the mechanisms generating these responses are uncertain, precipitation timing within a growing season has substantial effects on productivity.
20050497|At regional to global scales the only feasible approach to mapping and monitoring forests is through the use of coarse spatial resolution remotely sensed imagery. Significant errors in mapping may arise as such imagery may be dominated by pixels of mixed land cover composition which cannot be accommodated by conventional mapping approaches. This may lead to incorrect assessments of forest extent and thereby processes such as deforestation which may propagate into studies of environmental change. A method to unmix the class composition of image pixels is presented and used to map tropical forest cover in part of the Mato Grosso, Brazil. This method is based on an artificial neural network and has advantages over other techniques used in remote sensing. Fraction images depicting the proportional class coverage in each pixel were produced and shown to correspond closely to the actual land cover. The predicted and actual forest cover were, for instance, strongly correlated (up to r = 0.85, significant at the 99% level of confidence) and the predicted extent of forest over the test site much closer to the actual extent than that derived from a conventional approach to mapping from remotely sensed imagery.
23267444|There has been a renewed interest in allelopathy as a plantplant interaction as more plant ecologists have become involved in studying biological invasions. This resurgence highlights a major deficiency in our understanding of allelopathythe lack of a well-developed ecological context for the interaction. In contrast to allelopathy, the plantplant interaction of competition has a strong theoretical foundation as well as a large body of supporting empirical studies. We suggest that the plant-herbivore defense literature provides a mature and well-developed framework from which a broader ecological context for allelopathy can be developed. Here, we discuss three broad classes of questions, drawn from the herbivore defense literature, which may help to develop an appropriate ecological context for allelopathy. These questions focus on (1) variation in allelopathic expression within species, (2) community level variation in allelopathy across species, and (3) variation in the impacts of allelopathy on associated species. Addressing such broad population and community level themes in a variety of systems will be necessary to fully develop an ecological context for allelopathy and provide a theoretical basis for understanding its role in plant communities.
20051173|Sixteen stands of dry alvar grassland in Estonia, representing the same vegetation type in similar ecological conditions, were investigated in order to study a considerable variation in species richness within and between stands. Alpha diversity and within stand beta diversity (spatial turnover of species) were negatively correlated. The distribution of species frequencies across the stands was clearly U-shaped, which made it possible to distinguish core species (occurring in more than 75% of stands) and satellite species (occurring in less than 25% of stands), including most of species from the total species pool. Species richness showed significant nestedness -- scarce species occurred more often in species-richer stands. Both mean alpha diversity and the size of the community species pool were significantly positively correlated with the number of core species found in a stand, while beta diversity was correlated with the number of satellite species. Species frequencies across the stands were negatively correlated with species average height, seed mass and requirement for soil fertility. These differences were also evident in comparison of core and satellite species by 14 Phylogenetically Independent Contrasts. Also, satellite species had a significantly higher variation in average height and seed size than core species. It was concluded that the community matrix is made up of core species, which are better suited to dry oligotrophic conditions. Beta diversity is largely caused by satellite species, the optimum conditions of which may be found in other neighbouring communities. Further studies have to show whether stands with higher richness and thus a higher number of satellite species are those which were or are surrounded by communities which may potentially act as sources of satellite species.
40212871|Vegetative and chemical responses to simulated leaf browsing during the growth season, and their subsequent effect on herbivory, were studied on Combretum apiculatum Sonder (Combretaceae) in Botswana. Treatments (50% and 100% leaf and shoot apex removal) were performed just before the shoot growth curve levelled out, and responses recorded 3 months later, just before leaf fall. Compared to controls, defoliation treatments, removing apical dominance, reduced growth in tree height and increased shoot mortality, although the production of lateral shoots increased. At the end of the trial, there was no difference in total length of annual shoots between treatment groups. Significant refoliation occurred only after 100% defoliation. Refoliated leaves were smaller and the 100% defoliated trees had a lower final leaf biomass. Total leaf biomass production was, however, equal for all treatment groups. Refoliated leaves contained higher levels of N, lower levels of aciddetergent fibre (ADF) and total phenolics, and showed a trend towards lower levels of condensed tannins, compared to leaves on control trees. Such chemical changes may be due to either carbon stress or to younger physiological age of new leaves. In spite of the observed potential increase in food quality, we found no evidence of increased levels of insect or ungulate herbivory on refoliated leaves, which, at least for insect herbivory, may be explained by the reduction in temporal availability of leaves. We conclude that the single severe defoliation was not detrimental to C. apiculatum in the short-term, although the resource loss and induced compensatory growth may produce negative effects during subsequent growth seasons.
40212894|Soil seed banks can exert a strong influence on the path of vegetation succession following fire, with species varying in their capacity to persist in the seed bank over time, leading to changes in seed bank composition and propagules available for post-fire colonisation. This study examined the effect of time since fire on soil seed bank dynamics in a chronosequence of seven sites spanning 26 years in a south-eastern Australian sand heathland. No significant change was evident in the species richness and density of the germinable soil seed bank, but species composition differed significantly among young (0-6 years since fire), intermediate (10-17 years since fire) and old-aged (24-26 years since fire) sites (using presence/absence data). No significant trend was observed in the similarity between the extant vegetation and the soil seed bank with time since fire. A total of 32% of the species recorded in the soil seed bank were not present in the above-ground vegetation at the same site, which suggests that species requiring fire for germination may be present in the seed bank. Most species present in the extant vegetation were not recorded (63%) or were in very low abundances in the soil seed bank (29%). The mode of regeneration appears to be the major determinant of species absence in the soil seed bank, as 66% of species occurring in the extant vegetation but not in the seed bank have the capacity to regenerate by resprouting. This study shows that a major shift in the successional pathway after fire due to altered seed bank composition is unlikely in this vegetation; most species not recorded in the seed bank are either resprouters (obligate or facultative) or serotinous, suggesting that they will readily regenerate following fire. Unless fire frequencies are high and kill fire-sensitive obligate seeders before they reach maturity, the chance that the soil seed bank could substantially alter vegetation composition within the study area after fire is low. However, it is unclear how successional pathways may alter in response to severe fires with the potential to kill both seeders and resprouters.
20146578|Pines have been extensively used for land restoration in the Mediterranean basin and in other parts of the world, since the late 19th century. The theoretical basis supporting pine utilisation was its stress-tolerant and pioneer features, and their attributed role of facilitating the development of late-successional hardwoods in the long-term. In the present work, the use of pines and hardwoods in forest restoration is discussed in the frame of the current disturbance regime and social demands for Mediterranean forests. Large pine plantations have recently disappeared because of their sensitivity to fire (e.g., Pinus nigra) or because of the short fire-intervals (e.g., Pinus halepensis). Combined pine and oak plantations are proposed for degraded land restoration on the basis of the complementary features of both groups of species. Seeding and containerised seedling plantation, soil amendments and plantation techniques to reduce transplant shock are evaluated for reforestation under water-stressing conditions, on the basis of several experiments performed in eastern Spain. Both P. halepensis and Quercus ilex are tested.
20050808|Plant zonation patterns across New England salt marshes have been investigated for years, but how nutrient availability differs between zones has received little attention. We investigated how N availability, P availability, and plant N status varied across Juncus gerardii, Spartina patens, and mixed forb zones of a Northern New England high salt marsh. We also investigated relationships between several edaphic factors and community production and diversity across the high marsh. P availability, soil salinity, and soil moisture were higher in the mixed forb zone than in the two graminoid zones. NH-N availability was highest in the J. gerardii zone, but NO-N availability and mid season net N mineralization rates did not vary among zones. Plant tissue N concentrations were highest in the mixed forb zone and lowest in the S. patens zone, reflecting plant physiologies more so than soil N availability. Community production was highest in the J. gerardii zone and was positively correlated with N availability and negatively correlated with soil moisture. Plant species diversity was highest in the mixed forb zone and was positively correlated with P availability and soil salinity. Thus, nutrient availability, plant N status, and plant species diversity varied across zones of this high marsh. Further investigation is needed to ascertain if soil nutrient availability influences or is a result of the production and diversity differences that exist between vegetation zones of New England high salt marshes.
20146941|Old-growth deciduous forests in western Europe, for the most part, consist of small tracts that often may be atypical due to human disturbance, poor soil productivity or inaccessibility. In addition, very little information on tree age distributions, structural heterogeneity and tree spatial patterns appears to be available for west-European forests. Characterization of the structural features of tree populations in these old-growth stands can provide the basis to design conservation plans and also inform on how present forests might look in the absence of human interference. Four old-growth stands in a deciduous forest in the Cantabrian lowlands, northern Spain, were surveyed to determine forest structure and spatial patterns. Live and dead trees were identified, measured and mapped, and live trees were cored for age estimation. Structural heterogeneity was analyzed by means of the spatial autocorrelation of tree diameter, height and age, and the uni- and bivariate spatial patterns of trees were analyzed. The dominant species, Fagus sylvatica and Quercus robur, showed reverse-J shaped size distributions but discontinuous age distributions, with maximum ages of 255-270 yr. Tree ages suggested that the forest was largely modified by past changes in forest-use, especially by temporal variation in grazing intensity. Spatial autocorrelation revealed that former parkland stands were heterogeneous with respect to tree height only, while high forest stands were composed of patches of even-aged and even-sized trees. Young trees were clumped at varying distances and establishment occurred preferentially in canopy gaps, except for Ilex aquifolium that mainly occurred beneath mature Quercus trees. Surviving trees became less intensely clumped in the dominant species, and more strongly clumped in understorey ones, which may have been due to the effects of intraspecific competition and of canopy trees on tree survival, respectively. The spatial associations between species varied within the forest, probably as a consequence of specific establishment preferences and competitive interactions.
41686805|Resprouting of trees and shrubs in forestgrassland ecotones is a key process to understand the dynamics of these systems under different disturbance regimes. This study integrates resprouting of grassland shrubs and pioneer forest trees ('gullivers'), burned in subtropical lowland grassland and cut in temperate highland grassland of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Per grassland site, 20 individuals each of 1-2 grassland shrub species (Asteraceae) and two forest tree species (Myrsinaceae, Myrtaceae) were tagged, and postdisturbance survival and growth monitored for 1 year at 2-4 month intervals. Differences in resprouting vigour (summed-up basal area of resprouted shoots per pre-disturbance summed-up area of basal stems), and in density and allometry of resprouted shoots (allocation mode) were compared between tree and shrub species by linear mixed effects modelling and multiple comparisons, using the Tukey test. All grassland shrub individuals resprouted and regained 73-142 % (species average) of pre-disturbance basal area within one year, as opposed to 14-24 % in trees. All Myrtaceae 'gullivers' resprouted, but up to two-thirds of Myrsine individuals did not survive disturbance. Tree species tended to produce either many slender or few stout shoots, while shrub species were intermediate between these extremes. Forest trees regained 22-46 % of predisturbance height, independent of allocation mode, and grassland shrubs up to 73 %. This suggests that grassland fires allow grassland shrubs but not forest trees to persist and to grow to reproductive size. Differing sprout allocation modes may reflect allometric constraints rather than strategies to outgrow the fire-prone grass matrix.
40212995|The evolution of increased competitive ability (EICA) hypothesis states that plants introduced into a new range experience reduced herbivory, which in turn results in a shift in resource allocation from herbivore defense to growth. If genotypes of an invasive plant species from its native and introduced ranges are grown under common conditions, introduced genotypes are expected to grow more vigorously than conspeciflc native genotypes. We tested predictions of the EICA hypothesis with the invasive species Lepidium draba by comparing the growth of genotypes from its native European and introduced western US ranges under common conditions. To test potential differences in competitive ability, we grew L. draba from both continents with either Festuca idahoensis, a weak competitor native to North America, or Festuca ovina, a strong competitor native to Europe. Contrary to EICA predictions, there were no differences in the performance of native and introduced L. draba, independent of whether plants were grown with F. idahoensis, F. ovina, or alone. The strong competitor, F. ovina impaired the growth of L. draba more than the weak competitor F. idahoensis and conversely, F. idahoensis was generally more impaired by L. draba than was F. ovina. While the native F. idahoensis was equally affected by L. draba regardless of range, F. ovina was not: US L. draba had a stronger negative effect on F. ovina growth than European L. draba. Our data suggest that the EICA hypothesis is not suitable to explain the invasion success of L. draba in the US. Instead, the greater competitive effect of L. draba on the North American F. idahoensis and the asymmetric competitive effect of L. draba from different origins on F. ovina may indicate superior competitive ability for resources, or the presence of allelopathic traits in L. draba, to which plant species in non-native ranges are maladapted.
20051358|Invasive exotic plants can persist and successfully spread within ecosystems and negatively affect the recruitment of native species. The exotic invasive Ailanthus altissima and the native Robinia pseudoacacia are frequently found in disturbed sites and exhibit similar growth and reproductive characteristics, yet each has distinct functional roles such as allelopathy and nitrogen fixation, respectively. A four-month full additive series in the greenhouse was used to analyze the intraspecific and interspecific interference between these two species. In the greenhouse experiment, the inverse of the mean total biomass (g) response per plant for each species was regressed on the density of each species and revealed that the performance of the plants was significantly reduced by interspecific interference and not by intraspecific interference (p &lt 0.05). Other biomass traits such as root dry weight, shoot dry weight, stem dry weight, and leaf dry weight were also negatively affected by interspecific interference. Competition indices such as Relative Yield Total and Relative Crowding Coefficient suggested that A. altissima was the better competitor in mixed plantings. Ailanthus altissima consistently produced a larger above ground and below ground relative yield while R. pseudoacacia generated a larger aboveground relative yield in high density mixed species pots.
40540382|We investigated initial establishment and regeneration of an outlying isolated Fagus crenata forest stand at the northernmost boundary of its range in Hokkaido, northern Japan. The study site was located in the Sannosuke beech forest (4246'48''N, 14023'43''E), a representative outlying beech stand beyond its continuous range. A rectangular 0.75 ha plot was established on a southwest-facing slope and divided into 300 square sub-plots of 25 m. Within each sub-plot, stems over 5 cm in diameter at breast height (DBH) were identified and measured. Furthermore, the location of stems over 10 cm in DBH (canopy stem) was recorded within each sub-plot, and their increment core samples were extracted. Wood from fallen logs was sampled to estimate the species composition of the coarse woody debris. Micro-relief of the plot was investigated by leveling with compasses for a 2.5 m  2.5 m grid system. In the plot, the population of F. crenata was divided into three sub-populations by their frequency distribution of age. The oldest sub-population, over 121 years old, had been established in small-localized gap in the plot. The sub-population between 81 and 120 years old and the sub-population less than 80 years old were regenerated after a landslide and windthrow in a 1954 typhoon, respectively. Furthermore, dominant species in the plot shifted from Quercus mongolica var. grosseserrata to F. crenata. Consequently, regeneration of F. crenata, i.e., expansion of forest stands, at the northernmost boundary of its range was primarily dependent on episodic natural disturbance, which may be responsible for the reduction of their migration rate in Hokkaido, northern Japan.
20146648|Standing crop and species composition in semiarid grassland are linked to long-term patterns of water availability, but grasslands are characterized by large single-season variability in rainfall. We tested whether a single season of altered water availability influenced the proportions of grasses and shrubs in a semiarid grassland near the northern edge of the North American Great Plains. We studied stands of the clonal shrub snowberry (Symphoricarpos occidentalis) and adjacent grassland dominated by the native grasses Stipa spartea and Bouteloua gracilis. Rain was excluded and water supplied in amounts corresponding to years of low, medium, and high rainfall, producing a 2-4-fold range in monthly precipitation among water supply treatments. There were ten replicate plots of each water treatment in both snowberry stands and grassland. Grass standing crop increased significantly with water availability in grassland but not inside snowberry stands. Total standing crop and shrub stem density increased significantly with water supply, averaged across both communities. In contrast, water had no effect on shrub standing crop or light penetration. In summary, our finding that water has significant effects on a subset of components of grassland vegetation is consistent with long-term, correlational studies, but we also found that a single season of altered water supply had no effect on other important aspects of the ecosystem.
40666617|While several studies have documented that invasive plants can change the microbial communities, little is known about how soil microbial communities respond to population variation of invasive plants. Here, nine populations of Spartina alterniflora were selected from the east coast of China along latitudinal gradient to compare bacterial diversity of rhizospheres among these populations. The bacterial diversity in S. alterniflora rhizospheres was valued by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis. Shannon-Weaver diversity index (H') and number of DGGE bands showed that rhizosphere bacterial diversity of S. alterniflora populations increased along a latitudinal gradient when all the populations were grown in a common garden. These findings suggest that population variation of S. alterniflora can differentiate the rhizosphere bacterial diversity, and the latitudinal gradient can shape the specific plant-bacterial diversity relationship. Our results adding to the recent literature suggest that invasive plant-soil biota interactions would have clinal variation with environmental gradients and improve our understanding of the mechanisms and processes of plant invasions.
20050456|Seed density, seed colour and the number of seed damaged by birds were monitored for several months, after a late-spring fire, in two Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Miller) stands growing in South Italy. In one stand (S) the trees were completely burned ('charred'), in the other one (S) the trees were only 'scorched', with a crown in part still alive after fire. 37% and 61% of seeds were released during the first month, respectively in S and S. Damaged seeds accounted for 43% and 23% of seeds collected in the whole period, respectively in the charred and in the scorched stand. In both stands the percentage of empty seeds increased in late-dispersed seed lots. The colour of released seeds changed with time: dark grey-brown seeds were released at first, whereas late-dispersed seeds showed a yellowish colour. The principal component analysis performed on the categorical colour variables produced a good discrimination between seed lots collected at different dates. Seed dispersal and the characteristics of released seeds have been discussed in relation to the post-fire recruitment process and, in particular, to the possibility that the predation risk by granivorous birds may be reduced by a mimicry effect of seeds to the underlying soil.
40305632|Although modern forestry takes into consideration the analysis of the effects of forest management on plant structure, diversity and seedlings, little is known about how those parameters respond to harvest techniques in the Mediterranean region. We investigated the effect of three different harvest intensities, respect to uncut controls, on understory plant species functional groups, richness, diversity and pine seedlings in a natural Maritime pine stand in Spain, three years after harvesting. The harvest treatments produced a reduction of the number of Pinus pinaster seedlings and woody species cover, and an increase of species richness (total and of annual species) and plant cover of annual species respect to control plots (CO). The Shannon diversity values showed no differences between treatments. These results emphasize that the tree harvest treatments analyzed are not suitable for the management of this P. pinaster stand. Otherwise, the reduction of pine seedling density by harvest treatments and the changes in richness and cover of functional groups would not induce the natural regeneration of this stand maintaining the understory plant layer.
40212929|In this study, we built up a database of 570 species from an alpine meadow on the eastern Tsinghai-Tibet plateau. We examined the correlation of seed mass and germination with phylogeny, habitat and altitude, and the relationship between seed mass and germination. We found that: habitats had no significant effects on seed mass and germinability, which was in accord with the former studies; there was a significant negative correlation between seed mass and altitude, as well as between germinability and altitude, which was opposite to most of the former studies; there was a significant negative correlation between seed mass and germinability, which was in contrast with other studies that have found a positive relationship, and seed mass could explain 24.1% of total Variation in germinability; in GLM, family and genus accounted for 43.9% and 83.9% of total Variation in seed mass, and 34.1% and 65.4% in germinability, respectively, thus, it was evident that seed mass and germinability were strongly related to phylogeny. We considered that seed mass and germination might be the result of both selective pressures over long-term ecological time and the constraints over long-standing evolutionary history of the taxonomic membership. We suggest that correlates of ecology and phylogeny should be taken into account in comparative studies on seed mass and germination among species.
20050982|We present a technique for estimating size-age relations and size-dependent mortality patterns of long-lived plants. The technique requires two sets of size data of individual (non-marked) plants that should be collected with a time-lag of several years in the same area of a study site. The basic idea of our technique is to assume general (three parameter) families of size-dependent functions which describe growth and mortality that occurred between the two data gathering events. We apply these growth and mortality functions to the size data of the early data set and construct predicted size-class distributions to compare it, in a systematic way, to the size-class distribution of the later data set. In a next step we calculate the size-age relations from the resulting growth functions, which yield the smallest difference between observed and predicted size-class distribution. Applying this technique to size data of five dominant shrub species at the Tierberg study site in the semiarid Karoo, South Africa produced new insight into the biology of these species which otherwise cannot be obtained without frequent measurements of marked plants. We could relate characteristics of growth behavior and mortality, for certain subgroups of the five species, to the life-history attributes evergreen vs. deciduous, succulent vs. woody, and early reproductive vs. late reproductive. The results of our pilot-study suggest a broad applicability of our technique to other shrublands of the world. This requires at least one older record of (individual) shrub-size data and performance of resampling.
20051321|A comparison between fire-prone ecosystems in the Mediterranean basin and Western Australia shows convergent adaptations in structure, life forms and flora evolution. Both areas have in common summer drought and winter rainfall. Reproductive biology is mainly correlated with fire ecology; the different length of human impact and history seem to be responsible for floristic divergency in both areas. The ecological significance of pollination by insects, birds and mammals and problems of the seed banks are discussed.
20050525|The halophilous vegetation of the Orumieh lake salt marshes has been studied, using the Braun-Blanquet method. Vegetation types have been defined by physiognomic-floristic system. The following six main groups of communities are recognized: (1) Semi-woody shrub and perennial halophytic communities (Class Halocnemetea strobilacei) including 6 associations and 5 subassociations, (2) Annual halophytic communities (Class Thero-Salicornietea) including 5 associations and 1 subassociation, (3) Salt marsh brushwood communities (Class Tamaricetea) including 4 associations, (4) Rush and herbaceous perennial halophytic communities (Class Juncetea maritimi) including 7 associations and 1 subassociation, (5) Rush and herbaceous perennial halotolerant communities (Class Agrostietea stoloniferae) including 5 associations, (6) Hydrophilous halotolerant communities (Class Phragmitetea) including 3 associations and 2 subassociations. The soil of these communities has been analysed and their habitats are described and discussed.
20051017|The non-native invasive plant Chromolaena odorata (Asteraceae) was studied at 6 sites, with a chronosequence of ages from &lt1 to 15 years, at St Lucia, South Africa. C. odorata density, biomass, seed production and soil seed banks were quantified in three microsites: sun, semi-shade and shade. C. odorata density decreased with invasion age, apparently as a self-thinning process. Biomass per unit area and seed production/plant increased over the first 10 years, but declined greatly at 15 years. C. odorata plants grew larger and had much greater seed production in the sun relative to semi-shade, with small plants producing few if any seeds in the shade. Seed production in the sun varied from 2000 (&lt1-year old site) to 260 000 (10 year) seeds
40540327|Increasing elevation can restrict the expansion of tree species by negatively affecting growth. In this study, we estimated growth velocity and evaluated the effects of extreme elevation on radial growth of the Andean tree Polylepis tarapacana Philippi (Rosaceae). We also developed different models to predict the relationship between age (number of tree-rings) and allometric characters (total height and diameter). Samples of trees and shrubs were collected between 4,200 and 4,600 m asi and analyzed using standard dendrochronological methods. Results evidenced that P. tarapacana is a slowgrowing species since it grows less than 5 mm per year. Furthermore, elevation has a negative effect on radial growth. Morphometric models showed that a positive relationship between total height and diameter exists but not a significant relation between number of tree-rings and morphometry. Elevation had a major role in the radial growth of P. tarapacana which interacts with microclimatic conditions. Careful considerations should be made at the moment of using allometry as a surrogate for age in ecological studies.
40305487|In 1972(74)-1996(98), repeated phytocoenological surveys of natural mixed forest remainders were made on permanent plots in the umava Mts. in the south-western part of the Czech Republic. The surveys were made in localities with subsoils poor in nutrients (Boubn-Mileice27 plots) and in a locality with nutrient-rich subsoil (Stoec15 plots). Vegetation dynamics were studied according to the year of measurement and the nutrient capacity of the geological bedrock. We used the indices of floristic similarity, the calculation of plant communities' characteristics (Shannon-Wiener's index, equitability index), the calculation of taxa characteristics (fidelity, average cover, constancy) and multivariate ordination analysesindirect (DCA) and direct (CCA). Changes in environmental conditions were studied between the years of measurement and between the localities using bioindicationby the calculation of Ellenberg indicator values (EIV) for plant communities. Over 24 years both the nutrient-poor site and the nutrient- rich site showed a considerable reduction in the tree layer cover and conversely the advancement of shrub layers. The coverage degree of dominants in the main tree layer (Fagus sylvatica, Picea abies and Abies alba) markedly decreased. Abies alba also exhibited a pronounced drop in constancy. On the other hand, the lower tree layer and shrub layers in Boubin-Milesice exhibited a distinctive invasion of Fagus sylvatica. An increase in the frequency of Sorbus aucuparia and a decrease in the frequency of Ulmus glabra were determined too. Herb layer changes were highly significant between the 1970s and the 1990s with qualitative changes being greater than quantitative changes. The number of species and Shannon-Wiener's index increased. A significant difference was recorded between the nutrient-poor and the nutrient-rich sites in the values of the quantitative similarity of relevs with other differences being insignificant. The nutrient-poor sites exhibited herb layer homogenisation. A significant increase of EIV for light was found on both site types. The changes in phytocoenoses were interpreted partly as developmental trends (caused by indirect impact of mane. g. fluctuations in game populations since the 18th century, the impact of air pollution); partly as cyclical changes connected with the developmental cycle of the natural temperate forest.
20050994|Vascular plants represent one strategy of adaptation to the uneven and erratic supply of water on land. Desiccation-tolerant (DT) bryophytes represent an alternative, photosynthesising and growing when water is freely available, and suspending metabolism when it is not. By contrast with vascular plants, DT bryophytes are typically ectohydric, carrying external capillary water which can vary widely in quantity without affecting the water status of the cells. External water is important in water conduction, and results in bryophyte leaf cells functioning for most of the time at full turgor; water stress is a relatively brief transient phase before full desiccation. All bryophytes are C3 plants, and their cells are essentially mesophytic in important physiological respects. Their carbohydrate content shows parallels with that of maturing embryos of DT seeds. Initial recovery from moderate periods of desiccation is very rapid, and substantial elements of it appear to be independent of protein synthesis. Desiccation tolerance in effect acts as a device that evades the problems of drought, and in various adaptive features DT bryophytes are more comparable with (mesic) desert ephemerals or temperate winter annuals (but on a shorter time scale, with DT vegetative tissues substituting for DT seeds) than with drought-tolerant vascular plants.
20146764|The present study aims to identify and characterize the relationships among landscape structure and plant diversity in a tropical landscape forest in Quintana Roo, Mexico. Total species richness as well as that of trees, shrubs and vines species were identified from 141 sampling quadrats (16,543 individuals sampled). Based on vegetation classes obtained from multi-spectral satellite image classification, I constructed plant diversity maps of the landscape under study using stratified kriging. I calculated the mean number of species in individual patches as the average values of kriging estimates inside of each patch. I then explored the relationships between landscape pattern metrics and the species richness of trees, shrubs and vines, as well as all groups combined using regression analysis. I employed Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) to select a set of candidate models. Based on akaike weights, I calculated model-averaged parameters. Results show that plant diversity of the patches depends on both the quality of the surrounding habitats and the proximity of surrounding patches (i.e., patch isolation).
20146494|Cecropia peltata L. is a myrmecophyte, with a wide distribution in the neotropics, predominantly associated with ants of the genus Azteca. It has been shown that Azteca ants defend Cecropia plants against herbivores, and that the plants provide housing (hollow stems) and food (Mllerian bodies) for the ant colony. In the field, occupation by ants does not take place until plants have reached a minimum colonisable size (ca 1 m height), and defensive ants do not occupy small plants. Therefore, juvenile individuals lack such biotic defence. This constitutes an ontogenetic constraint to biotic defence in these plants. We tested the hypothesis that in the stage previous to colonisation plants of Cecropia peltata in a Mexican tropical forest may exhibit some alternative or complementary defensive mechanism against herbivores. We compared, in pre-colonised and colonised plants: rates of herbivory, concentrations of potentially defensive secondary metabolites (total phenolics and condensed tannins), and trichome density. We also conducted acceptability bioassays with a generalist herbivore (Spodoptera fugiperda). In addition, we measured plant growth to investigate if, by using alternative defence mechanisms, pre-colonised plants experience a reduced performance. Rates of herbivory were higher in pre-colonised individuals. Accordingly, leaf phenolics and tannin concentrations, as well as trichome density, were higher in colonised plants. In addition, acceptability bioassays showed that S. fugiperda preferred the leaves of pre-colonised plants. Relative growth rate was not statistically different between both types of plants. Contrary to our expectation, colonised plants, besides biotic defence by ants, also had higher concentrations of secondary metabolites, higher trichome density and lower herbivory and palatability than pre-colonised plants. This suggests that pre-colonised plants may deal with herbivores by other means and that older, larger plants invest more in all defences rather than shifting defensive mechanisms with ontogeny. Since growth rate of pre-colonised plants was comparable to that of colonised plants (despite the higher levels of herbivory of the former), we suggest that plant tolerance leading to compensation may be used by pre-colonised juveniles of C. peltata.
40666576|Recent interest in spatial pattern in terrestrial ecosystems has come from an awareness of the intimate relationship between spatial heterogeneity of soil resources and maintenance of plant species diversity. Soil and vegetation can vary spatially in response to several state factors of the system. In this study, we examined fine-scale spatial variability of soil nutrients and vascular plant species in contrasting herb-dominated communities (a pasture and an old field) to determine degree of spatial dependence among soil variables and plant community characteristics within these communities by sampling at 1-m intervals. Each site was divided into 25 1-m plots.Mineral soil was sampled (2-cm diameter, 5-cm depth) from each of four 0.25-m quarters and combined into a single composite sample per plot.Soil organic matter was measured as loss-on-ignition.Extractable NH and NO were determined before and after laboratory incubation (28 days at 27  C) to determine potential net N mineralization and nitrification.Cations were analyzed using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry. Vegetation was assessed using estimated percent cover. Most soil and plant variables exhibited sharp contrasts between pasture and old-field sites, with the old field having significantly higher net N mineralization/nitrification, pH, Ca, Mg, AI, plant cover, and species diversity, richness, and evenness. Multiple regressions revealed that all plant variables (species diversity, richness, evenness, and cover) were significantly related to soil characteristics (available nitrogen, organic matter, moisture, pH, Ca, and Mg) in the pasture; in the old field only cover was significantly related to soil characteristics (organic matter and moisture). Both sites contrasted sharply with respect to spatial pattern of soil variables, with the old field exhibiting a higher degree of spatial dependence. These results demonstrate that land-use practices can exert profound influence on spatial heterogeneity of both soil properties and vegetation in herb-dominated communities.
20050541|Variability in seed germination behaviour of Cistus ladanifer L. (rockrose), a Cistaceous species widely distributed in the Mediterranean Basin, was studied in a central Spanish population under controlled conditions. No correlation between seed moisture content and germination was found. Great variability in germination was found among seeds of the population studied, not only between seeds belonging to different mother plants, but also between those collected from different capsules on the same plant. In most cases, seeds preheated at 100 C for 30 minutes showed a significant increase in germination. This germination behaviour is related to fire regimes as this plant is a typical shrubby element of the mediterranean shrublands. Percent germination did not vary significantly after several months of seed storage at room temperature. In the same way, no difference was found in final germination percentage of seeds stored under room temperature vs. seeds stored under cold conditions.
20146604|Germination and emergence are stimulated by environmental cues, but strongly influenced by maternal controls. However, traits related to seed dispersal may have important influences on germination as well. For example, the "sibling rivalry" hypothesis suggests that germination may be inhibited when sibling seeds remain within a single dispersal unit. These two influences on germination suggest different, and possibly conflicting, evolutionary strategies for optimizing individual fitness. Using an invasive annual grass that produces dispersal units with dimorphic seeds, I found significant reductions in seedling emergence that suggested the presence of both strong maternal and sibling influences on the germination of the smaller seed of dimorphic pairs. Both influences were capable of nearly complete germination suppression of the small seed, but there was no strong evidence for a hierarchy among the two factors. The maternal effect is consistent with a bet-hedging strategy for survival in variable environments where resource availability can be unpredictable, but the sibling effect likely represents a mechanism for reducing competition between closely related individuals, particularly under conditions of resource limitation.
20051068|Invertebrates mediate several important ecological processes, including pollination and seed predation, and events that affect invertebrate diversity or behaviour can potentially disrupt forest regeneration processes. This study investigates the impact of logging in Thailand and forest fragmentation in Costa Rica on the pollination and seed production of two self-incompatible forest trees. Logging in a dry deciduous dipterocarp forest in Thailand resulted in reduced densities of the common dipterocarp tree Shorea siamensis and variably isolated individual trees. The number of flower visits to S. siamensis by pollinating Trigona bees was not affected by logging disturbance. However, pollinators did spend longer periods of time foraging in the canopies of isolated trees which were more prevalent in logged areas where tree density had been reduced. Consequently, at the logged site few cross-pollinations were effected and fruit set of S. siamensis was considerably lower than at nearby unlogged sites where distances between flowering conspecifics were smaller. Reduced fruit set has long-term implications for the recovery of S. siamensis populations in disturbed areas, and local population genetic structure is likely to be affected as reduced outcrossing rates among trees in disturbed regions results in relatively inbred seed. In Costa Rica forest fragmentation has restricted the once widespread tree Anacardium excelsum to forest patches located in an agriculturally-dominated landscape. As with S. siamensis, the abundance of pollinators, also Trigona bees, in the canopies of A. excelsum was largely unaffected by fragment size. Nevertheless, pollination success and seed production was positively correlated with fragment size. We propose that small bees rarely move between forest fragments and gene exchange through pollination occurs predominantly among trees within fragments and, together with likely low genetic variability in small fragments, that this contributes to the observed reduced fertilisation and seed set of A. excelsum. Thus increased tree isolation tree through selective logging or habitat fragmentation by forest clearance can result in reduced seed set due to changes in the foraging patterns of poorly mobile pollinators. Even if population sizes of the pollinators are maintained following environmental perturbation, this study shows that disturbance may disrupt pollination processes through changes in pollinator foraging behaviour. More attention needs to be focussed on changes in the behaviour of species involved in key ecological interactions following disturbance events in tropical forests.
23362495|Cogongrass (Imperata cylindria) is an invasive weed and harmful to ecological systems and agricultural production in many countries. It was found that plant extracts and root exudates of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) exhibit allelopathic potential and inhibit the growth of cogongrass to a greater extent than either barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crus-galli), Indian goose-grass (Eleushine indica), or lettuce (Lactuca sativa) in bioassays. Greenhouse trials indicated that sweet potato soil reduced the emergence of the noxious weed by 50 %, yet exhibited either weaker inhibition or the promotion of barnyardgrass, Bidens (Bidens pilosa), and Leucaena (Leucaena leucocephala), while the desired growth of upland rice (Oryza sativa) was not affected. In cogongrass fields, the incorporation of 12 tons aboveground parts and cultivation of sweet potato provided 8085 % weed control. On the other hand, the reduction of congograss in fields may be offset by the alternate invasion of B. pilosa which multiplied its biomass by 26 times with sweet potato amended soils. The findings of this study indicate that sweet potato is an effective crop in the biologic management of the invasive cogongrass in agricultural fields, thus the interactive mechanism between sweet potato and the invasive weed demands further investigation. Ecologically, this study highlights the specificity of allelopathic interactions between cogongrass and sweet potato that is helpful to minimize the disturbance from infestation of this invasive weed against native species and crops.
40212934|The way competition structures plant communities has been investigated intensely over many decades. Dominance structures due to competitive hierarchies, with consequences for species richness, have not received as much experimental attention, since their manipulation is a large logistic undertaking. Here the data from a model system based on bryophytes are presented to investigate competition structure in a three-species system. Grown in monocultures, pairwise and three-species mixtures under no and high nitrogen supply, the three moss species responded strongly to treatment conditions. One of them suffered from nitrogen fertilisation and hence performed better in mixtures, where the dominant species provided physical shelter from apparently toxic nitrogen spray. Accordingly, no linear competitive hierarchy emerged and qualitative transitivity remains restricted to the unfertilised treatments. Faciliation also affected other properties of the competition structure. The reciprocity of competition effects could not be observed. Moreover, the performances in three-species mixtures were not well predictable from the knowledge of monocultures and pairwise mixtures because competitive effects were not additive. This had implications for community stability at equilibrium: all two-species systems were stable, both fertilised and unfertilised, while the three-species system was only stable when fertilised. This stability under fertilisation has probably to do with the facilitative effect of the two dominant species on the third. In this experiment, little support for commonly held ideas was found about the way competition in plant communities is structured. On the other hand, this study shows that moss communities are ideal model systems to test predictions of theoretical models concerning properties and consequences of competition in plant communities.
20051226|We used minirhizotrons to determine patterns of root longevity and turnover for the perennial bunchgrass Bouteloua gracilis in the shortgrass steppe of eastern Colorado, USA. We hypothesized that root longevity would be partially controlled by root diameter, following previously observed patterns in woody plants. In addition, we hypothesized that root turnover would be greatest in surface soil horizons and decrease with depth due to variation in soil moisture availability and temperature. Root longevity was correlated with root diameter. Median life span of roots &gt 0.4 mm was approximately 320 days, while roots &lt 0.2 mm had a median life span of 180 days. There was approximately a 6% decrease in the likelihood of mortality with a 0.10-mm increase in root diameter, controlling for the effect of depth in the soil profile. Root length production and mortality were highest in the upper 20 cm of the soil profile and decreased with depth. However, because root length density also decreased with depth, there were no significant differences in turnover rate of root length among sampling intervals. Turnover was approximately 0.86
20050751|Axis splitting is a widespread phenomenon in desert shrubs, and has been reported for shrubs from several plant families, both in old- and new-world deserts. It is so common in dwarf shrubs of arid environments as to be a defining characteristic of this growth form. Although anatomists described this phenomenon several decades ago, there has been only one ecological study of one species, Ambrosia dumosa. The anatomical nature of the various splitting mechanisms that have been found suggests axis splitting to be an extreme form of hydraulic segmentation. The adaptive advantage of clonal splitting in desert shrubs has yet to be determined, but it appears to be largely a risk-spreading mechanism that enables independent mortality of integrated hydraulic units (IHUs) or ramets. This should be especially advantageous in heterogeneous, water-limited environments, where soil water occurs in pockets too small to support a large shrub-genet. Clonal splitting may cause an increase in intraclonal competition among ramets, but there are also indications that at least some species possess mechanisms to reduce competition by minimizing root system overlap among ramets. Many desert shrub species that undergo clonal splitting maintain a dense clump growth form, possibly because such a growth form has positive effects on water and nutrient status of the soil and long-term effects on other soil properties.
20051267|Mexican cloud forest vegetation has been recorded in temperate humid conditions at rather different elevations ranging from 600 to 3000 m. They are characterised by high biodiversity under continuous foggy situations. Some authors state that many genera are quantitatively important to depict cloud forest conditions. Detailed quantitative studies comprising most of the localities of Mexican cloud forests to depict altidudinal distribution ranges on basis of preferential genera have not been previously conducted. The aim of this study is (1) to recognise characteristic preferential genera of Mexican cloud forest conditions, and (2) to determine quantitatively the current altitudinal distribution pattern of this vegetation type. From a database composed by 995 genera inhabiting in the Mexican cloud forests, six genera were chosen preliminary as preferential characteristics. These were Clethra, Magnolia, Meliosma, Styrax, Symplocos, and Ternstroemia. These genera include 70 species that occur at over 70% of the current Mexican cloud forest fragments. The mean elevation of these genera records were 1853 m (600 at 95% confidence interval). The results showed that Mexican cloud forests occur optimally between 1250 and 2450 m. Additionally, Mexican cloud forest is the best distributed within some provinces of the "Regin Mesoamericana de Montaa", chiefly at "Serranas Meridionales", "Sierra Madre Oriental", and "Serranas Transstmicas". The results are discussed in light of the importance of these regions as diversification centres.
20051054|Arthropods were collected by insecticidal tree fogging on the understorey tree species Rinorea beniensis Engler (Violaceae) in Budongo Forest, a seasonal rain forest in Uganda. Eight trees were fogged in adjacent plots of primary, selectively logged and swamp forest during the wet season and again in the dry season. In all forest types, Psocoptera, parasitoid Hymenoptera, and especially Formicidae and Auchenorrhyncha were more abundant during the dry season, while Ensifera, Heteroptera, Lepidoptera, Diptera, and Coleoptera were more abundant during the wet season. Seasonal change in arthropod composition was very low in the swamp forest located near a stream, where permanent water supply is crucial for the development of the distinct swamp vegetation, with comparatively constant microclimatic conditions all over the year. Seasonal change increased in the primary forest, and shows most significant changes of athropod abundance between dry and wet season in the selectively logged forest which also had the highest heterogeneity in forest structures. Especially small and soft bodied arthropods probably accumulate along a humidity gradient in the dense canopies of Rinorea during the dry season, when the forest floor outside the swamp forest is dry. This effect, which is also strongest in the selectively logged forest, leads to a much higher density of canopy dwelling arthropods during the dry season.
23362497|Forest restoration uses active management to re-establish natural forest habitat after disturbance. However, competition from early successional species, often aggressively invasive exotic plant species, can inhibit tree establishment and forest regeneration. Ideally, restoration ecologists can plant native tree species that not only establish and grow rapidly, but also suppress exotic competitors. Allelopathy may be a key mechanism by which some native trees could reduce the abundance and impact of exotic species. Allelopathy is a recognized tool for weed management in agriculture and agroforestry, but few studies have considered how allelopathic interactions may aid restoration. Here we introduce the "Homeland Security" hypothesis, which posits that some nave exotic species may be particularly sensitive to allelochemicals produced by native species, providing a tool to reduce the growth and impacts of invasive exotic species on reforestation. This article explores how exploiting allelopathy in native species could improve restoration success and the re-establishment of natural successional dynamics. We review the evidence for allelopathy in agroforestry systems, and consider its relevance for reforestation. We then illustrate the potential for this approach with a case study of tropical forest restoration in Panama. C 4 grasses heavily invade deforested areas in the Panama Canal watershed, especially Saccharum spontaneum L. We measured the effect of leaf litter from 17 potential restoration tree species on the growth of invasive C 4 grasses. We found that leaf litter from legume trees had a greater inhibitory effect on performance of S. spontaneum than did litter from non-legume trees. However, allelopathic effects varied greatly among species within tree functional groups. Further evaluation of intra- and inter-specific interactions will help to improve our selection of restoration species.
40305553|In the Northern Hemisphere, the surface of south-facing slopes orients toward the sun and thus receives a greater duration and intensity of solar irradiation, resulting in a relatively warmer, drier microclimate and seasonal environmental extremes. This creates potentially detrimental conditions for evergreen plants which must endure the full gamut of conditions. I hypothesize that (1) increased southerly aspect will correlate negatively with evergreen understory plant distributions; (2) derived environmental variables (summer and winter light and heat load) will predict variance in evergreen distributions as well as topographic position (aspect, slope, and elevation) and (3) winter light will best predict evergreen understory plant distributions. In order to test these hypotheses, survey data were collected characterizing 10 evergreen understory herb distributions (presence, abundance, and reproduction) as well as the corresponding topographical information across north-and south-facing slopes in the North Carolina mountains and Georgia piedmont. The best predictive models were selected using AIC, and Bayesian hierarchical generalized linear models were used to estimate the strength of the retained coefficients. As predicted, evergreen understory herbs occurred and reproduced less on south-facing than north-facing slopes, though slope and elevation also had robust predictive power, and both discriminated well between evergreen species. While the landscape variables explained where the plants occurred, winter light and heat load provided the best explanation why they were there. Evergreen plants likely are limited on south-facing slopes by low soil moisture combined with high temperatures in summer and high irradiance combined with lower temperatures in winter. The robust negative response of the understory evergreen herbs to increased winter light also suggested that the winter rather than the summer (or growing season) environment provided the best predictive power for understory evergreen distributions, which has substantive implications for predicting responses to global climate change.
20050721|Frequent fire is an integral component of longleaf pine ecosystems, creating environmental conditions favoring survival and growth of juvenile pines. This study examined stand structure, species composition, and longleaf pine regeneration in an old-growth tract of longleaf pine forest (Boyd Tract) experiencing long-term (&gt80 yr) fire exclusion in the Sandhills of North Carolina. Sampling of woody stems (i.e., 2.5 cm diameter at breast height) and tallies of longleaf pine seedlings were carried out in plots established randomly on upland, mesic areas and lowland, xeric areas within the Boyd Tract. Dominant woody species in mesic plots were black oak, hickories, and large, sparse longleaf pines. Xeric plots had high densities of turkey oak with the large longleaf pines, as well as higher frequencies of smaller longleaf stems. These differences between areas were associated with higher clay content of upland soils and higher sand content of lowland soils. Age-class frequency distributions for fire-suppressed longleaf pine following the last wildfire at the Boyd Tract approximately 80 yr ago contrasted sharply with data from an old-growth longleaf tract in southern Georgia (Wade Tract) that has been under a long-term frequent fire regime. Post-burn recruitment for the Boyd Tract wildfire appears to have been initially high on both site types. Longleaf pine recruitment diminished sharply on the mesic site, but remained high for 60 yr on the xeric site. Currently, longleaf pine regeneration is minimal on both site types; several plots contained no seedlings. Sharp contrasts in longleaf pine dominance and stand structure between the Boyd and Wade Tracts demonstrate the importance of large-scale disturbance, especially hurricanes and fire, in shaping the structure and function of longleaf pine ecosystems of the southeastern United States. In particular, long-term exclusion of fire on the Boyd Tract has altered stand structure dramatically by permitting hardwoods to occupy at high densities the characteristically large gaps between longleaf stems that are maintained by fire and other disturbances.
20051108|The restoration of degraded peat-grasslands is an important nature conservation goal in The Netherlands. We investigated the effects of ceased fertilization (15 years) combined with a groundwater-raised water table (6 years) on the production of the peat-grassland vegetation and soil nutrient availability in a meadow. Furthermore, we evaluated whether and how this difference between meadows affected the balances between nutrient inputs and outputs in the ecosystem. We used an adjacent fertilized meadow in which the water table followed agricultural practice as a control. Yield of the grassland vegetation was significantly lower in the wet than in the control meadow. The tissue concentrations of N, P, and K in the harvested vegetation were significantly lower, but those of Ca higher in the wet than in the control meadow. The difference between both meadows significantly affected the annual nitrification rate, but not the annual C and N mineralization rates and the annual net P and K release rates. The difference between both meadows also significantly affected the seasonal nitrification and K release rates. Season exerted a significant effect on the seasonal C and N mineralization and nitrification rates. The elemental balances and relative contributions of the balance terms to elemental inputs and outputs varied considerably with element. Annually, the wet meadow lost N, P and K, while the control meadow gained these elements. The elemental demand of the grassland vegetation in the wet meadow was met for N for a large part by mineralization and for the remainder by atmospheric deposition, for P it was in the same order of magnitude as the net soil-P release, as it was for K. It is to be expected that the soil resources of N, P and K will continue to decrease under a continued regime of ceased fertilization and a raised water table, with those of N decreasing with the same rate, of P more rapidly and of K more slowly than estimated from regressions.
40926887|We investigated vertical stratification and effects of crown damage on maximum tree height in two mixed conifer-broadleaf forests in Yakushima Island, southern Japan. In both research plots, the conifer trees dominated the upper canopy while the broadleaved trees dominated the middle to lower canopy. Most broadleaved trees were shorter than the median crown-base height (H CB ) of the conifer trees. Estimates of the maximum height (H max ) of the conifer trees were greater than those of the broadleaved trees.Crown damage had significant negative effects on maximum height of the conifer trees. Crown damage was observed for 72.8-88.7% of the conifer trees, and severe types of damage such as stem breakage and top die-back were the most predominant. The H max of the damaged conifer trees was 16-17% shorter than that of the intact trees and as much as 16-28% shorter than the potential maximum height estimated from the diameter-height relationship of the tallest intact trees. We inferred that crown disturbance is an important factor determining the maximum height of the canopy of the two mixed forests. Our results suggested that vertical stratification between conifer and broadleaved trees may be an important mechanism contributing to their coexistence and additive basal area of mixed forests on Yakushima Island.
20146954| Intensity of the abrasive effect of wind-borne sand -- sandblasting -- in addition to other environmental factors was measured at two vegetation zones on a sandy beach and one site at an inland area. One zone on the beach included foredunes sparsely vegetated by dune species such as Carex kobomugi and Calystegia soldanella. The other zone which was located 50 m inland from the first zone was flat grassland dominated by inland species such as Miscanthus sinensis and Imperata cylindrica var. Koenigii. The inland site consisted of short grassland located 3 km inland from the beach. Intensity of sandblasting was estimated by the whiteness of a transparent plastic sheet exposed to the air for 2 weeks. This sheet turned whitely opaque when it was abraded by wind-borne sand. The other environmental factors measured at the beach were intensity of salt spray, soil water content, soil salinity, and sand accumulation, while intensity of salt spray was the only additional factor measured at the inland site. Intensity of sandblasting was considerably higher at the foredune zone, while that at the grassland zone was as low as that at the inland site. Considerable salt spray was detected at the foredune and grassland zones. Differences in other environmental factors were small between the two zones on the beach. In order to compare the difference in tolerance to sandblasting, a jet of sand was applied to one ordinary species, C. kobomugi, from the foredune and two species, M. sinensis and I. cylindrica, from the grassland zone. The difference in tolerance was determined by the decrease in the area of green leaf after applying sandblasting with commercial sandblaster and/or spraying with sea water. M. sinensis and I. cylindrica lost much of the leaf area after sandblasting and salt spraying, while C. kobomugi lost little. These results indicated that one of the characteristic environmental factors of a foredune is the high intensity of sandblasting accompanied by salt spray, and that species found in the foredune are more tolerant to sandblasting than species distributing in more inland areas. 
24552026|Bird flight distances for the small Zosterops capensis, the medium-size Pycnonotus capensis and the large Colius striatus were extracted from these birds' initial ring and subsequent recapture locations and expressed on equivalent per km bases. The products of the bird-ring recapture records in nine different flight distance categories and daily consumption rates by these birds of seeds of two native (Chrysanthemoides monilifera and Olea europaea spp. africana) and two alien (Lantana camara and Solanum mauritianum) shrubs were used to construct seed dispersal curves. The dispersal distances to which ingested seeds were theoretically restricted were computed from the product of the retention time of seed in the birds' guts and their flight speeds using published functions. All three bird species displayed thin long-tailed seed dispersal curves characterized by peaks at distances below 1 km which declined progressively with increasing distances, the tails extending to distances of up to 400 km. Flight distances corresponding with predicted seed gut retention times were 9.4 km in the small Z. capensis, 17.8 km in the medium size P. capensis and 21.2 km in the large C. striatus. These potential seed dispersal distances were much greater that the frequently reported long distance seed dispersal threshold of 1 km by frugivorous birds in fragmented landscapes.
40305795|The reserve ovary model is a key hypothesis proposed to explain why plants produce surplus flowers and posits that plants may utilize surplus flowers to compensate for losses from floral herbivory. We tested this hypothesis in the prairie plant Eryngium yuccifolium and its floral herbivore Coleotechnites eryngiella. At five Illinois tallgrass prairie sites, we collected central, primary lateral, and secondary lateral inflorescences from E. yuccifolium to determine whether damage by the larvae of C. eryngiella to the flowers in earlier developing inflorescences would be compensated for in later developing inflorescences. Coleotechnites eryngiella does extensive damage to the central and primary inflorescences and little damage to the secondary inflorescences. Later maturing inflorescences did not compensate for early damage by increasing seed production in later inflorescences. The secondary inflorescences of E. yuccifolium may only compensate for catastrophic damage done to the central and primary inflorescences early on in development, serve as additional advertisements for pollinators, act as pollen donors, or allow the plant to take advantage of "ecological windows" of high pollinator and low herbivore abundance. Our findings were spatially and temporally consistent and did not support the predictions of the reserve ovary model in the E. yuccifolium-C. eryngiella system suggesting that in this system, alternate, proximate, and ultimate causes need to be explored for the production of surplus flowers.
20146775|We investigated the spatial patterns of perennial species (Stipa tenacissima, Anthyllis cytisoides, Globularia alypum, Brachypodium retusum and chamaephytes) in a 50 m  50 m semi-arid steppe by using the combination of a linear model of coregionalization (LMC) and sampling units of varying size (1.25 m  1.25 m, 2.5 m  2.5 m, and 5 m  5 m). The data-adjusted LMC showed the patchy structure of the vegetation, which was especially evident with the highest resolution grid. It also detected a periodic pattern in the distribution of S. tenacissima, as well as autocorrelation at two spatial scales for A. cytisoides and G. alypum. The latter species was negatively associated with the other species at both short and long distances. These negative associations were consistent for all sampling grids and suggest the presence of interference between G. alypum and the rest of the evaluated species. Despite species-specific differences, the LMC was fitted satisfactorily to all of them. This suggests a common variation pattern for all the species, which may be caused by an underlying environmental property driving the patterns of all the species or, alternatively, by the dominance of some species' spatial pattern, or another kind of species association, over the rest. The spatial patterns found were profoundly affected by the observational scale. Our results reveal that the multivariate geostatistical approach introduced in this paper is a suitable technique for the spatial analysis of semi-arid plant communities. It allows plant ecologists to evaluate if the species forming the plant community of interest share a common spatial pattern, and to assess the spatial covariation between the species forming a plant community at different spatial scales independently.
20050492|The effect of stand structure on the diversity of the forest's ground vegetation was examined based on data on permanent sample plots collected in the northern parts of North-Carelia, eastern Finland. Different ordination methods (DCA, GNMDS, LNMDS, and HMDS) were used together with the TWINSPAN classification method. The aim was to construct a basis for classifying forests with respect to the biodiversity of the forest vegetation. Fertility and stand age showed the strongest correlation with the variation in ground vegetation. Other important factors were basal area, tree species composition, and crown cover. These variables were important in the division of the sample plots into different classes. According to the diversity indices, species diversity was at its highest in young stands on fertile forest sites. As a result, twenty-one different classes were formed based on the relative abundance of understorey species. The variables with the highest correlation were used to describe the stand structure in these classes.
20146821|The Evolution of Increased Competitive Ability (EICA) hypothesis proposes that exotic plants may become superior competitors in their introduced ranges because they have evolved reduced defense allocation and increased growth in response to low herbivory. Long-term common garden studies with Chinese tallow tree (Sapium sebiferum), a problematic invader in the southeastern United States, support EICA predictions of invasive ecotypes displaying rapid growth with poorly defended leaves, whereas native ecotypes are slower growing and have nitrogen rich, highly defended leaves. We conducted two full-factorial experiments designed to assess the effects of leaf herbivory and soil fertility on growth of Sapium seedlings derived from seeds obtained in the species' native Chinese range and introduced range along the Texas Gulf Coast. The first was a field study employing simulated defoliation to examine herbivory tolerance, while the second was a pot study using grasshopper bioassays to measure the compensatory regrowth of native and introduced Sapium ecotypes. In accordance with EICA predictions, introduced Texas ecotypes compensated for mechanical and natural defoliation regardless of resource conditions while growth of native Chinese ecotypes was significantly reduced as a result of both simulated and natural herbivory damage. These results demonstrate that invasive Sapium ecotypes have a greater capacity to compensate for herbivory damage than native Sapium ecotypes. The differences between Sapium ecotypes are consistent with the mechanisms of EICA and other findings demonstrating that invasive ecotypes have become herbivory tolerant due to post-introduction changes in tissue quality.
40212967|Measurements of leaf gas exchange were made in contrasting wooded ecosystems in West Africa. Measurements were made on 10 species: seven from humid rain forest in Cameroon and three from the semi-arid Sahelian zone in Niger. For each species, two models of photosynthesis were fitted: the first based on a rectangular hyperbolic response to photosynthetic photon flux density (Q), and the second the biochemical model of Farquhar et al. (1980). In both communities, the species studied could be divided into those characteristic of early and late successional stages, but photosynthetic parameters were not closely related to successional stage. The data identified significant relationships between
23500367|Termites are considered to be ecosystem engineers because they modify their biophysical environments. We tested the effects of soil-nutrient alteration in termite-enriched soils compared with termite-free open savannas. We also tested whether non-nutrient alterations (soil disturbance) induced by termites led to changes in tree-seedling growth. Soil samples taken from termite-enriched soils and adjacent open savanna sites in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa were analyzed for nitrogen, pH, organic carbon and water-holding capacity. Seeds from three dominant tree species, Acacia sieberiana, Celtis africana and Ziziphus mucronata, were grown in soils taken from termite-enriched soils and adjacent savannas. Overall, organic carbon and nitrogen content were higher in termite-enriched soils than in adjacent savannas. We found that these differences in nutrients did not directly affect seedling growth rates or final height. However, C. africana had increased growth rates in compacted termite-enriched soils, while A. sieberiana seedlings were taller in non-compacted soils. We conclude that the indirect effects of disturbance by termites may be as important as the direct effects of increased nutrients for growth of savanna trees.
20051110|Species turnover and speed of primary revegetation on uranium-mining spoils are described from the Centre-West part of Spain. Four 21-yr-old successional seres differing in substrate-grain size (broken/unbroken waste) and slope orientation (North/South) are compared. Qualitative and quantitative changes in species composition and the time required for recovery of a terminal stage are analysed, using an undisturbed pasture as reference. Revegetation succession is faster on the broken waste and on the North slope. Moreover, there is a combined effect of both abiotic factors on the pattern and duration of revegetation succession. 195 plant taxa are recorded showing one of four patterns of change: (1) 'pioneer'; (2) 'intermediate'; (3) 'late coloniser'; (4) 'fluctuating'. Multivariate analysis allows us to identify species following each of these patterns on each substrate.
40305567|The tree community (dbh > 5 cm) of a fragment of tropical montane semi-deciduous forest in South-east Brazil was repeatedly surveyed over a 19-year period in order to assess spatial and temporal patterns of dynamics. The surveys took place in 1987, 1992, 1996, 2001, and 2006 in a grid of 126 20 x 20 m permanent plots covering almost the entire fragment (5.8 ha). Overall patterns indicated that a self-thinning process has taken place in the fragment since 1992. Community dynamics varied in space and time, with most dynamics highly spatially clustered. With exception of mortality rates, there were no changes in the spatial patterns of community dynamics through time. No relation between edges and dynamics variables was found. Most species with increasing density and basal area were shade-bearers, while most decreasing species were canopy light demanders and pioneers.
20051183|We have delineated the spatio-temporal plant assemblages prevailing under contrasting environmental conditions at the southernmost part of the North American Graminetum in central Mxico and discuss the relative importance of these factors in determining plant community structure and composition. 353 line-transect samples were collected during 11 years from exclosures and adjacent grazed areas within three Bouteloua-dominated grasslands and one Acacia schaffneri shrubland and analyzed using TWINSPAN. In addition, eight edaphic variables were utilized to evaluate similarities in soil properties among sites, using unweighted-pair groups method. Results from TWINSPAN were translated into mosaic patterns to show the distribution of communities as a function of environmental factors over time. Under no or moderate grazing, summer precipitation promotes an initial differentiation of vegetation into high, low or average rainfall communities. This situation is altered in grasslands degraded by intensive grazing pressure, where rainfall patterns play a subordinate role to that of livestock herbivory. Soil influences are secondary to those of precipitation and grazing in affecting grassland structure and composition. In shrubland, community stability is related to high floristic and edaphic spatial heterogeneity in the face of climatic variability.
41508680|In this work, we analyse the role of climatic constraints in shaping the distribution of alien plant species along the elevation gradient in the European Alps. Alien species occurrence was recorded in 278 plots located beside rivers, from 100 to 2,100 m a. s. l. Climate variables were calculated from the data recorded by 145 meteorological stations and interpolated by a multiple regression approach. Both richness and occurrence of aliens were modelled. In particular, relationships between the occurrence of alien plants and (1) elevation or (2) the climatic variables, were tested by applying generalised linear models and generalised linear mixed models; the model parameters obtained were used to estimate upper elevation limits of alien occurrence and their related climate values. Sixty-eight alien species were encountered, the majority (71%) invasive in Italy and worldwide. A steep decrease in alien species richness with elevation was found, with the probability of alien species occurrence decreasing by half for each 100 m increase in elevation. Minimal adequate models based on (1) non-transformed climatic variables and (2) derived PCA values, confirmed that occurrence of alien plant species along the elevation gradient was positively related to the minimum temperature, the mean temperature and the heat sum for the spring season, rather than to the incidence of absolute minimum temperature and frost days, as usually assumed. Although further experimental analyses are needed, these results support the hypothesis that, referring to climate factors, elevation limits along rivers are mainly established by low spring temperatures which operate at the level of population viability rather than plant survival.
40212901|To evaluate the effects of changes in water level and temperatures on performance of four Sphagnum mosses, S. magellanicum, S. rubellum, S. imbricatum and S. fuscum were grown at two water levels, -5 cm and -15 cm, and at two temperatures, 15C and 20C. These species differ in their position along the microtopographical gradient and in their geographical distribution. Height increment, subcapitulum bulk density, biomass production, capitulum water content and cumulative evaporation were measured. Height increment and biomass production of S. magellanicum was lower at low water table than at high water table, whereas height increment and biomass production of S. rubellum, S. imbricatum and S. fuscum were unaffected. Height increment of S. magellanicum, S. rubellum and S. imbricatum was higher at high temperature than at low temperature. Biomass production of only S. magellanicum and S. rubellum was higher at high temperature than at low temperature, corresponding with their more southern distribution. Cumulative evaporation of S. magellanicum and S. rubellum was lower at low water table and could be explained by hampered water transport towards the capitula. We conclude that changes in water table and temperature may alter the Sphagnum composition on raised bogs, which may result in changes to important ecosystem processes. Therefore, it is important that species composition and changes therein are taken into account when evaluating global change effects on raised bog ecosystems.
40305557|Seed predation may reduce recruitment in populations that are limited by the availability of seeds rather than microsites. Fires increase the availability of both seeds and microsites, but in plants that lack a soil-or canopy-stored seed bank, post-fire recruitment is often delayed compared to the majority of species. Pyrogenic flowering species, such as Telopea speciosissima, release their nondormant seeds more than 1 year after fire, by which time seed predation and the availability of microsites may differ from that experienced by plants recruiting soon after fire. I assessed the role of post-dispersal seed predation in limiting seedling establishment after fire in T. speciosissima, in southeastern Australia. Using a seed-planting experiment, I manipulated vertebrate access to seeds and the combined cover of litter and vegetation within experimental microsites in the 2 years of natural seed fall after a fire. Losses to vertebrate and invertebrate seed predators were rapid and substantial, with 50% of seeds consumed after 2 months in exposed locations and after 5 months when vertebrates were excluded. After 7 months, only 6% of seeds or seedlings survived, even where vertebrates were excluded. Removing litter and vegetation increased the likelihood of seed predation by vertebrates, but had little influence on losses due to invertebrates. Microsites with highdensity vegetation and litter cover were more likely to have seed survival or germination than microsites with low-density cover. Recruitment in pyrogenic flowering species may depend upon the release of seeds into locations where dense cover may allow them to escape from vertebrate predators. Even here, conditions suitable for germination must occur soon after seed release for seeds to escape from invertebrate predators. Seed production will also affect recruitment after any one fire, while the ability of some juvenile and most adult plants to resprout after fire buffers populations against rapid declines when there is little successful recruitment.
20146395| We studied regeneration patterns of three tree species Picea ajanensis, Betula platyphylla and Populus tremula from 1998 to 2000 in the Central Depression of the Kamchatka Peninsula. We paid special attention to the contribution of sprouting to their regeneration. P. ajanensis was the only species that regenerated by seedling. In a 40  40 m study plot, the density of P. ajanensis saplings &lt 2.0 cm in diameter at basal area (DBH) was 1132, and this was the highest among the three species studied. The number of saplings  2 cm in DBH declined sharply with size class. The spatial distribution of P. ajanensis saplings (&lt 2 cm in DBH) showed a significant positive correlation with that of adult trees and a negative correlation with that of gaps. These trends were not changed after re-measurement in 2000, although nearly half of the juveniles had died or been injured during the two years. These results suggest that small Picea saplings prefer habitats under the canopy of adult trees rather than in gaps for establishment. Most small individuals of B. platyphylla were produced from sprouts. The number of saplings in the smallest size class (&lt 2 cm in DBH) was much less than that of P. ajanensis, although the number of larger individuals did not decrease remarkably. The spatial distribution of B. platyphylla saplings showed a positive correlation with that of adult trunks and a negative correlation with that of canopy trees of P. ajanensis. These results suggest an effective contribution of sprouts to the regeneration of B. platyphylla. P. tremula was the only species that could invade big gaps and produce many root suckers efficiently. There were 181 suckers of P. tremula in the smallest size class (&lt 2 cm in DBH) in the study plot, although the number of saplings  2 cm in DBH declined abruptly. The spatial distribution of saplings of this species showed a slight positive correlation with that of gaps, and negative correlation with that of adult trees of B. platyphylla, P. ajanensis, and P. tremula. The root suckering strategy of P. tremula might be adaptive under severe conditions in high-latitude regions. Our data suggest, however, that it does not necessarily contribute to regeneration in mature forests. The three component species in this forest did not seem to utilize canopy gaps for regeneration; we suggest that gap dynamics do not work in this forest. The sparse canopy, which is a typical character of forests in high-latitude regions, might be a consequence of high mortalities of seedlings and root suckers inside gaps. 
20051337|Neobuxbaumia macrocephala is a long-lived columnar cactus endemic to the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Valley in south-central Mexico. This plant has a very restricted distribution and few recruitment events have been detected in its populations. In this study, we analyze the N. macrocephala demographic pattern using a projection matrix in order to determine the main limiting factors of this species. To accomplish this goal, we compare our results with those obtained for another species of the same genus, N. tetetzo. Considering that both species inhabit the same valley, we believe that this comparative study will offer insights into the main demographic limitations of N. macrocephala. Results showed that these species of columnar cacti have similar demographic patterns in which survival is the process with the highest relative contribution to , followed by growth and reproduction. Of all the life cycle stages, seeds and seedlings have the lowest survival probabilities due to a high mortality caused by seed predation and effects of direct solar radiation on germinated seeds. The estimated growth rates indicate that populations of these species of Neobuxbaumia are in a numerical equilibrium. With respect to reproduction, N. macrocephala produce a lower number of seeds per plant than N. tetetzo. This low level of sexual reproduction may decrease the probability of establishment of new individuals in N. macrocephala populations. It is suggested that pollen limitation and pre-dispersal seed predation could be some factors that limit the distribution and abundance of this columnar cactus.
40305435|Regeneration is known to be limited at many temperate tree lines, but very little data is available on the impacts of altitude and anthropogenic disturbance on regeneration patterns along tropical tree lines. The study focused on the reproductive traits of two Polylepis species in the Paramo de Papallacta in Ecuador along an altitudinal gradient, and involved different intensities of cattle trampling within subsequent altitudinal ranges. We analyzed flowering, fruit set, seed viability, germination, and seedling establishment as well as stand structure of Polylepis incana and P. pauta. The numbers of P. incana inflorescences and seedlings per m 2 showed a marginally significant decrease with increasing altitude. Mean tree height was significantly lower at higher altitudes, while stem number increased. The number of P. pauta inflorescences also decreased significantly upslope. In both forest types, trampling was found to have a positive impact on seedling abundance, presumably due to the removal of the litter layer. Thus, there was no evidence of negative effects of moderate cattle grazing on both tree line species. However, sapling establishment was minimal inside the forest stands at all altitudes and grazing levels, and we consequently observed a low proportion of narrow stems within all investigated forests. Our results show that, along with vegetative growth limitations of adult trees, important regeneration traits such as seedling and inflorescence numbers are also influenced by altitude, which might contribute to the formation of the upper tree line. Nevertheless, recruitment in the forest interior was low overall indicating that further factors, such as light conditions, affect regeneration of the studied species.
20146653|We analyse changes in plant cover and species richness along a 60-year chronosequence in semi-arid Mediterranean old-fields of southeastern Spain. The objectives were: (i) to study patterns of species richness along the abandonment gradient in semi-arid conditions (e.g., to test the "humped-back model" in our system); (ii) to test whether different broad life forms (annuals, forbs, grasses and woody species) showed different patterns along the abandonment gradient, and (iii) to examine to what extent plants with different dispersal strategies dominate at different stages of succession. The explained variance of the regression relating species richness to years since abandonment is improved when considering different life forms. The results suggest that cover and richness of different functional groups show a non-linear unimodal (often positive-skewed) pattern along the gradient (age since abandonment). Maximum total richness is found at young stages of abandonment (&lt 20 years), when most life forms and dispersal strategies coexist. Annuals and perennial forbs reached their maximum richness during the first 10 years of abandonment. About 45% of total woody species richness is reached at this time as a consequence of early colonization of zoochorous shrubs. While the results showed a tendency towards a life-form replacement sequence, the pattern is not so clear when looking at the different dispersal strategies. The results complement previous results in Mediterranean conditions and emphasise the importance of considering different functional types when studying successional patterns.
20146337|Spatial heterogeneity is a significant aspect of ecosystem structure and function. Because ecological variables often are spatially autocorrelated, standard statistics frequently are not appropriate to analyze ecological data. In this paper, we use Mantel and partial Mantel tests to explore the spatial structure of and relationships between several variables -- micro-topography, substrate salinity, wrack cover and the density of Aster laurentianus -- at two sites at the periphery of a shallow lagoon at les de la Madeleine, Qubec. A. laurentianus is an annual halophyte endemic to the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It typically occurs in a narrow band (from ca. 50 to 200 cm wide) at the periphery of shallow lagoons. In this habitat, plants are exposed to frequent deposition of plant debris (wrack) and to the limiting effects of substrate salinity. Our analyses show that substrate salinity, wrack cover and density of A. laurentianus are significantly correlated with topography, and that wrack cover affects substrate salinity at both sites. At the first site, the abundance of A. laurentianus increases progressively with distance from the waterline, while at the second site, density increases initially, but then diminishes with distance from the waterline. At the first site, the most important structuring variable is wrack deposition, the effect of salinity on plant density being indirect. At the second site, which is somewhat sheltered, wrack deposition is far less important and substrate salinity predominates over wrack deposition as structuring variable. We suggest that A. laurentianus distribution along the shores of shallow lagoons is limited both by substrate salinity and wrack deposition, but that the relative importance of these structuring variables changes with the physical characteristics of the site.
20050952|The change in the composition of atmospheric deposition as it passes through the forest canopy on two 10-year-old Pinus radiata D. Don forests (Manzanal and Posadero) was studied in the Basque Country, analysing the concentration of different constituents in bulk precipitation and throughfall. The precipitation at the study sites was bimodal with two maxima in the year; one in late spring and another one in late autumn. Posadero had a mean annual precipitation of 1223.6 mm with an interception loss of 27.5% by the forest canopy and Manzanal had a mean annual precipitation of 978.6 mm with the interception loss being 22.2% of it. Constituent concentrations followed a similar seasonal variation, increasing during the summer when precipitation decreases. At both study sites the chemical species analysed in bulk precipitation and throughfall were characterised by the fact that they came from three distinct sources: acidic pollution, marine and terrestrial origin. Concentration of constituents in bulk precipitation in Manzanal was higher than in Posadero, most probably due to the smaller amount of precipitation that falls in this study site. The precipitation at Manzanal had a significantly lower pH than at Posadero. The amounts of sulphate, nitrate-nitrogen, organic nitrogen and protons that fell in the bulk precipitation at Manzanal (the polluted site) were higher than those that fell at Posadero (less polluted site). The concentration of organic nitrogen in the bulk precipitation of the polluted site was significantly related to the hydrocarbon concentration measured in the atmosphere in the nearby town of Muskiz. Throughfall in Manzanal had higher amounts of sulphate, nitrate-nitrogen, calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium and chloride than in Posadero. This fact suggests that both dry deposition and canopy leaching were an important source of throughfall constituents in Manzanal. The amount of manganese measured in Posadero throughfall was higher than that found in Manzanal throughfall. The pH in the throughfall did not show any significant difference between sites and was significantly higher than in bulk precipitation. Thus, canopies in the study sites seem to be able to neutralise very efficiently the acidic load of bulk deposition. Despite this buffering capacity of the canopies, the soil at Manzanal appeared to be more acidic than at Posadero, probably due to the liberation of protons in the rhizosphere when the neutralising pacity of the canopy is 'recharged'. This soil acidification may be leading to a greater solubilization of aluminium in the polluted site which could suffer from cation nutrient deficiencies in the future.
20050880|The recovery of vegetation following fire has been studied intensively in Mediterranean-type ecosystems. Little attention, however, has been given to floral traits, and almost no data have been collected on the effects of fire on pollinator activity and fruit-set. This paper reports the effects of fire on flower visitation rates and the possibly related fruit-set. We compared visitation rates of the main pollinators on four plant core-species in burned and adjacent unburned areas. Measurements were performed at an unburned phrygana (scrub lands), and at a burned area (5-7 years post-fire). Bumble bees and solitary bees were the main taxa of visitors, while few honeybees were recorded. Solitary bees were almost absent from the burned area. Fruit-set was significantly higher in the unburned area for three out of the four plant species. The lower fruit-set in the burned area was possibly the result of low activity of solitary bees which are the main effective pollinators of the examined species. We hypothesize that the populations of the solitary bees were diminished or extirpated either directly by the fire, or indirectly by the scarcity of nectar in the early post-fire years due to dominance of young pine and Cistus spp. seedlings. The short foraging range of the solitary bees and their slow invasion rate into the burned area may explain our results.
20050773|The Succulent Karoo biome is home to the world's richest succulent flora. It has approximately 1954 endemic plant species, and is the only semi-arid region to qualify as a hotspot of global significance. Despite its importance, only 2% of the biome is currently protected. Based on its flora, the biome can be divided into 12 bioregions, reflecting its high compositional turnover in relation to environmental and geographical gradients. Only three of these bioregions (the Gariep Centre, the Namaqualand Rocky Hills and the Tanqua Karoo) contain National Parks, and three contain large (over 10 000 ha) provincial reserves (the Gariep Centre, the Namaqualand Rocky Hills and the Little Karoo). The current reserve system does little to conserve biodiversity, with only one reserve significantly conserving Red Data Book (RDB) plant diversity. Using a RDB plant species database of 3874 records at a quarter degree scale (QDS = 15  15), we used hotspot analyses and iterative reserve selection algorithms to identify possible locations for future reserves. The hotspot analysis and iterative analyses yielded similar results for the top 11 QDS, mainly due to very high local endemism. Also because of the local endemism and the high species turnover within the biome, the real-world iterative algorithm (starting with the seven already reserved QDS) selected a very large total number of QDS (59% of the total in the biome) to conserve all RDB species. As a possible alternative to conservation planning based on QDS, we also assessed priorities at the scale of bioregions, but showed that representation at this geographic level misses important areas defined at a finer scale. We suggest that if the objective is to maximise the retention of RDB species in the landscape (to pre-empt extinction by scheduling the allocation of limited conservation resources), at least the top 5% of QDS (n = 11) selected by the iterative procedure, and identified as the core conservation sequence by analysis of endemicity and threat, should be given priority for reservation. Less extensive and, in some cases, less formal conservation action can be applied to QDS later in the sequence, based on species-specific monitoring and action plans. Of the 11 core areas, four fall in a node centred on the Vanrhynsdorp Centre, two fall in a node centred on the Kamiesberg, and the remaining five are isolated. With existing reserves, the core areas capture 50% of the RDB flora in 8% of the biome.
41508730|The tree Acacia dealbata Link is an Australian woody legume that has become a serious environmental problem in Northwest Spain, where its expansion is assumed to reduce populations of native species and threaten local plant biodiversity. In order to investigate the potential involvement of allelopathic mechanisms in this process, net photosynthetic and respiration rates of four test native understory species (Hedera hibernica (G. Kirchn.) Bean, Dicranum sp., Dactylis glomerata L. and Leucobryum sp.) were evaluated using a Clark-type electrode in the presence of canopy leachate collected under A. dealbata stands at four times of the year for 2 years and macerate from their apical branches at the same sites and times. The first two test species were present both inside and outside of A. dealbata stands, while the last two were only located outside the stands. We found that there were significant differences in respiration and net photosynthetic rates between the control and A. dealbata extracts in all test species. The respiration rate was increased by both canopy leachate and macerate extracts on certain collection dates, but net photosynthetic rate was stimulated by macerate and inhibited by canopy leachate on other dates. The main phenological stages of A. dealbata in which respiration and net photosynthetic rates were more affected were blossoming, inflorescence formation and in periods after severe drought, in this decreasing order. Our results also showed that Dicranum sp., Leucobryum sp. and D. glomerata were more affected by aqueous extracts than other species during a 2-year period. We suggest that the observed inhibitory or stimulatory effects on the physiological parameters studied could have an adverse effect on the understory species, and that allelopathic interference seems to participate in this process.
20146698|The biomass production of wetland vegetation can be limited by nitrogen or phosphorus. Some species are most abundant in N-limited vegetation, and others in P-limited vegetation, possibly because growth-related traits of these species respond differently to N versus P supply. Two growth experiments were carried out to examine how various morphological and physiological traits respond to the relative supply of N and P, and whether species from sites with contrasting nutrient availability respond differently. In experiment 1, four Carex species were grown in nutrient solutions at five N:P supply ratios (1.7, 5, 15, 45, 135) combined with two levels of supply (geometric means of N and P supply). In experiment 2, two Carex and two grass species were grown in sand at the same five N:P supply ratios combined with three levels of supply and two light intensities (45% or 5% day-light). After 12-13 weeks of growth, plant biomass, allocation, leaf area, tissue nutrient concentrations and rates and nutrient uptake depended significantly on the N:P supply ratio, but the type and strength of the responses differed among these traits. The P concentration and the N:P ratio of shoots and roots as well as the rates of N and P uptake were mainly determined by the N:P supply ratio; they showed little or no dependence on the supply level and relatively small interspecific variation. By contrast, the N concentration, root mass ratio, leaf dry matter content and specific leaf area were only weakly related to the N:P supply ratio; they mainly depended on plant species and light, and partly on overall nutrient supply. Plant biomass was determined by all factors together. Within a level of light and nutrient supply, biomass was generally maximal (i.e. co-limited by N and P) at a N:P supply ratio of 15 or 45. All species responded in a similar way to the N:P supply ratio. In particular, the grass species Phalaris arundinacea and Molinia caerulea showed no differences in response that could clearly explain why P. arundinacea tends to invade P-rich (N-limited) sites, and M. caerulea P-limited sites. This may be due to the short duration of the experiments, which investigated growth and nutrient acquisition but not nutrient conservation.
20146802|Five altitudinal pteridophyte zones are established along the northeastern altitudinal slopes of Mt. Banahaw de Lucban, Quezon, Luzon Is., Philippines using cluster- and ordination analyses, namely: Zone 1, Cyathea contaminans -- Dicranopteris-Nephrolepis-Diplazium patches at 700-800 m a.s.l.; Zone 2, Sphaerostephanos hirsutus var. hirsutus -- Selaginella delicatula patches at 750-900 m a.s.l.; Zone 3, Cyathea philippinensis - Selaginella patches at 900-1200 m a.s.l.; Zone 4, Cyathea philippinensis - Cyathea callosa-Asplenium cymbifolium-Selaginella cumingiana patches at 1200-1550 m a.s.l. and; Zone 5 which is further divided into Sub-zone 5A, Cyathea callosa - Cyathea loheri-Hymenophyllaceae patches at 1550-1800 m a.s.l. and Sub-zone 5B, Cyathea loheri - Cephalomanes apiifolia patches at 1800-1875 m a.s.l. These pteridophyte zones coincide with the woody species zones of Mt. Banahaw de Lucban but differ significantly with the altitudinal fern zones of Mt. Makiling. Stepwise multiple regression analysis reveals that altitude exhibits a linear relationship with pteridophyte species distribution. Altitude and soil pH influence 65% of the variation in principal component 1 [PC1 = 0.0839 + 0.0010(altitude) - 0.2072(soil pH); r = 0.8058] and 27% of the variation in principal component 2 [PC2 = 2.0453 - 0.0005(altitude) - 0.2560(soil pH); r = 0.5206]. Thirty-three (33) species are preferential to specific microenvironments along the altitudinal gradient, making them effective altitudinal zone markers and biodiversity conservation indicators for the forest ecosystem of Mt. Banahaw de Lucban.
20146586| The patterns of leaf pathogen attack and mechanisms of infection in the canopy of a Mexican tropical rain forest are described based on a survey of 30 tree and liana species. The study included the identification of the causal agents of pathogenic damage, as well as a description of the magnitude, interspecific and seasonal variation of leaf damage. Foliage of all tree species was attacked by fungal pathogens that caused leaf spots. Sixty two percent of the leaves surveyed in the dry season (N = 4348), and 59% of the leaves surveyed in the wet season (N = 3077) showed evidence of damage by fungal pathogens. Overall, leaf area damaged per plant was very low and similar in both seasons ( 5% of leaf area damaged). Within the low levels of damage, there was considerable variation in the degree of infection among species: the percentage of diseased leaves ranged from 12 to 97.19, while leaf area damaged per plant ranged from 0.90 to 12.54%. A salient pattern of the survey is that 59% of the leaves in the dry season and 54% of the leaves surveyed in the wet season were concurrently attacked by herbivores and fungal pathogens, and only between 2 and 4% of the leaves bore damage by pathogens alone (dry and wet seasons respectively). Pathogenicity assays experimentally confirmed that the predominant mechanism of fungal establishment was wounding, such as that caused by herbivory and only rarely did infection occur through direct contact (without wounds). This study reveals that leaf fungal diseases are a prevalent component of the foliage in the tropical rain forest canopy, although the magnitude of affected leaf area is considerably low. 
40305639|The species-environment relationships for woody species may vary according to the forest layers considered. In fragmented forest, spatial configuration may also influence forest layer composition. We investigated the relationships between four forest layer compositions and environmental conditions, and spatial variables accounting for forest fragmentation, in 59 forest stands. Field and shrub layer compositions were mainly linked to environmental conditions, particularly to soil pH and slope aspect, while the upper layer compositions were principally correlated to the spatial configuration. The distance from the forest edge was correlated with all the forest layer compositions. Our results suggest that woody species respond to factors acting at different spatial and temporal scales, depending on the forest layer they belong to. The species-environment relationship seems to weaken from the lower to upper layer, the upper layer being more closely linked to the spatial configuration and probably to the past management. This study underlines the importance of taking spatial configuration in addition to environmental conditions into account when studying woody plant diversity for different forest layers in stands located in deciduous fragmented forests. Moreover, stand history seems to have a lasting effect on woody plant composition, particularly for the tree layer.
20146674|The loss of Carex dominated meadows due to agricultural drainage in the previously glaciated midcontinent of North America has been extensive. The lack of natural Carex recruitment in wetland restorations and the failures of revegetation attempts underscore the need for information on the establishment requirements of wetland sedges. In this study, seedlings of Carex stricta Lam. were planted in three experimental wetlands in east-central Minnesota, USA to investigate the biotic and abiotic environmental limitations to establishment. Seedlings were planted along an elevational water depth gradient to assess the effects of water depth and water level fluctuation on seedling survival and growth. A different water level fluctuation regime was assigned to each of the experimental wetlands to assess seedling tolerance for seasonal water level changes. The effects of seedling planting density and the presence or absence of non-sedge colonizers on seedling survival and growth were also studied. The experiment was followed for three growing seasons. The results of this study indicate that C. stricta seedlings were sensitive to the timing and duration of inundation during the first growing season. Once established, plants tolerated a broad range of seasonal drying and flooding conditions. Seedling and juvenile growth was slowed by non-sedge colonizers during the first two growing seasons, but by the third growing season, C. stricta was able to out-grow all annual and perennial weeds, except the aggressive perennial, Phalaris arundinacea L. The rapid growth of C. stricta plants, once established, indicates that the use of seedlings is a successful method for (re) introducing this tussock sedge into wetland restorations under a variety of environmental conditions. Comparison with other studies performed under similar conditions suggests that planting of seedlings is a more appropriate method of establishing this species than the use of transplanted rhizomes.
20051121|The effects of light competition and litter on seedling recruitment and the performance of established individuals were examined in Viola palustris. This polycarpic perennial plant was a common component of species-rich fen meadows in northwestern Germany until the middle of this century, but today is considered to be regionally endangered. From summer 1996 until summer 1998 a bi-factorial field experiment combining three standing crop treatments (mowing, thinning, control) with two litter layer treatments (litter removal, no litter removal) was carried out in an abandoned fen meadow to investigate the effects of these factors both on V. palustris and on aboveground species composition and diversity. MANOVAs (multivariate analysis of variance) revealed significant treatment effects for the performance of V. palustris related to experimental manipulation. Mowing increased vital attributes including the number of rosette leaves, the percentage of individuals with chasmogamous and cleistogamous flowers and the number of rhizomes. In contrast, the length of the leafstalk, mean leaf area and the length of rhizomes were negatively associated with mowing. Litter removal significantly increased the number of V. palustris seedlings. The removal of the litter layer already resulted in an increase in aboveground species richness in the first year of the experiment. After three years of experimental manipulation, both aboveground species richness and diversity were positively associated with mowing. Redundancy Analysis showed that typical wet meadow species (Cardamine pratensis, Lychnis flos-cuculi, Lotus pedunculatus) and species of mesotrophic fens (Viola palustris, Agrostis canina, Potentilla palustris) were positively influenced by mowing. It can be concluded that V. palustris recruitment and growth is promoted by a regular disturbance regime on fen meadows. The conservation of many typical species of wet meadows and fens in northwestern Germany depends on moderate grazing or cutting. These management types prevent successional changes which lead to an increase in standing crop and the development of a litter layer, both of which can cause local extinction.
24553694|Plant migration is a multi-stage process often driven by multiple dispersal vector systems. Water-mediated dispersal (hydrochory) is known to move propagules of nonaquatic species over long distances, but whether propagule morphology affects floating processes is an open question. We used a multi-species approach to assess the role of propagule morphology in the dispersal of primarily wind-dispersed tree species in different urban rivers; the impact of hydraulic structures (locks, spillways) on floating was also considered. We released tagged propagules of eight tree species (Acer platanoides, Acer negundo, Acer saccharinum, Ailanthus altissima, Fraxinus excelsior, Robinia pseudoacacia, Tilia platyphyllos, Ulmus glabra) in the main lowland Spree River and in the small tributary Panke River (Berlin, Germany) and directly observed the fate of the floating propagules over river sections of 1,200 m. Our results demonstrate the following: (1) Water is an effective dispersal agent for wind-dispersed tree species, extending typical wind-related transport distances by several times. (2) Interspecific differences in transport distances reflect propagule characteristics (dry weight, maximum wing width) and river system. (3) Propagule morphology also affects deposition patterns as it was generally the large propagules that were trapped along semi-natural embankments in slow flow areas. (4) Hydraulic structures hampered but did not entirely stop water-mediated dispersal and diminished the effects of propagule morphology on floating processes. These results provide novel insights into the functioning of hydrochory as an important dispersal vector of tree species in river systems and as a driver of plant invasions.
20146877|Spatial and temporal variation in critical life history traits differ markedly between two co-occurring, rare and endangered annual plants, Gilia tenuiflora arenaria and Chorizanthe pungens pungens, that have restricted, but overlapping geographic distributions in coastal habitats of central California, USA. Environmental variation was extreme during the 6-year study (1997-2002), with the greatest differences between an intense wet, warm El Nio year (1998), followed by a very dry, cool La Nia (1999). Both species have similar increases in adult survival and seed set with wetter, warmer weather in spring, but they differed in other traits: more Gilia germinated in years with high rainfall and temperature, while more Chorizanthe germinated in dry, cooler years; Gilia abundance increased with the number of years since the previous large El Nio event, while Chorizanthe abundance declined; and Gilia abundance was independent of the previous year's seed set, while Chorizanthe density was directly related to the previous year's seed set. The strong negative associations of Chorizanthe abundance with warm, wet weather and with time since the previous El Nio probably reflect the particular sequence of annual weather patterns from 1997 through 2002, especially the extremes in 1998 and 1999. Since it germinates readily in most years under a wide range of winter conditions and does not develop a long-lived seed bank, Chorizanthe seedling abundance reflects recent additions and depletions of its seed bank, rather than prevailing weather, per se. In contrast, Gilia seeds may remain in the seed bank for many years, until relatively rare winter conditions trigger significant germination. These species-specific demographies enhance persistence and coexistence of these species, but the mechanisms differ from each other and from those described for annuals in other highly variable environments.
40212876|We studied species richness, composition, and vertical distribution of vascular epiphytes at two sites in the Bolivian Andes. To account for the epiphyte flora on understory trees, epiphytes on shrubs and small trees were sampled in 20 x 20 m subplots around each sampled canopy tree; this understory zone U is introduced as an addition to the well-established five vertical Johansson tree zones. More than 20% of about 500 species recorded were found only in the understory subplots, including ca. 40% of aroids, 35%-40% of piperoids, and 25%-30% of ferns. Habitat generalists (occurring in three or more zones) were most common, contributing about 50% of all species, specialists (occurring only in two zones, or in three continuous ones) 34%- 42%, and hemiepiphytes 6%-16%. Canopy epiphytes (occurring > 90% in tree zones Z3-5) were mainly represented by orchids and ferns, many with special adaptations to drought stress such as pseudobulbs, succulence, and poikilohydry. Trunk epiphytes (> 90% in understory and tree zones Zl-2) reached highest relative species numbers among piperoids and ferns. Most hemiepiphytes were also trunk epiphytes, due to their characteristic growth pattern, and included mainly aroids. The vertical distribution of epiphytes within a tree is determined by several microenvironmental gradients, with light intensity, wind speed, and air temperature increasing and air humidity decreasing from the ground level to the canopy.
40305428|Although changes in land-use, climate, and the spread of introduced tree species have increased the global importance of tree invasions into grasslands, our ability to predict any particular invasion is limited. To elucidate mechanisms driving tree invasions of grasslands, we studied in detail how seed dispersal and fine-scale environment control the expansion of an introduced Picea abies Karst. (Norway spruce) population into Western Carpathian grassland. We mapped invading trees and measured tree size, fecundity, seed rain, seedling density, plant community composition, and light and soil environment within a 200 x 60 m belt across the invasion front. Maximum likelihood estimates of dispersal kernels suggested peak seed deposition directly underneath tree crowns where germination was poor, but mean dispersal distances were sufficiently large to generate overlapping seed shadows from multiple trees that saturated the invasion front with seeds further away from seed-dispersing trees. Partial Mantel tests indicated that germinant density was affected considerably less by seed rain than by moss cover (r = 0.54), overstory tree influence (r = 0.32), soil moisture (r = 0.21), grass cover (r = 0.15), and diffuse radiation (r = 0.13). However, these variables were not independent but formed complex multivariate gradients within the invasion front. Moss cover and soil moisture were negatively correlated with overstory tree influence and the resulting gradient clearly affected germinant density (partial Mantel r = 0.45). In contrast, positively correlated light and grass cover defined a gradient related weakly to germinant density (partial Mantel r = 0.05) as it integrated opposing effects of these variables on germinants. Seedlings had similar environmental associations, but except for the lasting positive effects of moss these tended to weaken with seedling size. Although a few seedlings may establish and survive in the more adverse environment of the outer edges of the invasion front, a significant population expansion may require a gradual build-up of the critical density of invading trees to reduce grass cover and facilitate germination on moist mossy seedbeds within uncolonized areas. Thus, Picea abies appears more likely to spread within temperate grasslands by gradual expansion of its population frontier rather than by advanced groups.
40212975|Disturbances have played a significant role in shaping vegetation patterns following European settlement and agricultural development in Australia, particularly over the last 100 years. However, little is known about the temporal dynamics of plant communities in relation to disturbances and their interactions. In this study we examined the response and recovery of temperate grassland communities to disturbance, using a multi-factorial experiment involving grazing exclusion (absent and present), fire (absent and present), soil cultivation (none, 5 and 20 cm) and soil amendment (none, fertiliser and fertiliser plus clover seeds) on the New England Tablelands in NSW, Australia. Temporal patterns of plant communities were analysed using detrended correspondence analysis for eight surveys over 24 months. Vegetation patterns at each survey were analysed using principal components analysis. The effects of treatments on malleability (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) of plant communities were analysed using a linear mixed model, and the relationships between malleability and plant species groups were depicted using a generalised additive model and further analysed using a linear model. Perennial native grasses and a non-native forb (Hypochaeris radicata) initially dominated the vegetation, but after the disturbances H. radicata and other non-native species dominated. Compositional changes from the initial states were greatest in the first spring (7 months after treatment application), and then the vegetation tended to recover towards its original state. Soil cultivation resulted in the greatest deviation in community composition, followed by soil amendment, fire, with grazing exclusion the least. The recovery process and rate of recovery varied with treatment reflecting the dominance of soil cultivation and its interactions with other forms of disturbances. Soil amendment and grazing exclusion tended to reduce the effects of soil cultivation. Malleability was negatively related to perennial native grasses; positively to other nonnative species, annual native grasses and perennial native sedges/rushes; and negatively to H. radicata when its cover was below 18%, but positively when above 18%. The degree of malleability reflected the
40802415|The objective of this study was to investigate the variation in leaf litterfall patterns of desert plant species in relation to the intra-and interannual variation of precipitation. We collected the leaf litterfall of 12 representative species of the dominant life forms in the arid Patagonian Monte (evergreen shrubs, deciduous shrubs, and perennial grasses) at monthly intervals during three consecutive years. All shrub species showed a marked seasonality in the pattern of leaf litterfall, but the date of the peak of leaf litterfall differed among them. The peak of leaf litterfall in three deciduous and three evergreen shrubs occurred in summer months while in one deciduous shrub and in two other evergreen shrubs the peak of leaf litterfall was in autumn and winter, respectively. In contrast, the leaf litterfall of perennial grasses occurred through the year without a seasonal pattern. In most shrub species, increasing annual precipitation was related to increasing leaf litterfall and the peak of leaf litterfall was positively related to precipitation events occurred some months before, during winter. Moreover, the magnitude of responses in terms of variation in leaf litterfall in relation to interannual variation of precipitation was not the same for all species. Evergreen shrubs showed lower responses than deciduous species. These differences in leaf litterfall patterns were consistent with differences in leaf traits. In conclusion, we found new evidence of species-specific responses of leaf litterfall patterns to precipitation, suggesting that other factors than precipitation may control leaf litterfall in desert plants.
20146569|This paper deals with the post-fire regeneration of Pinus halepensis Mill. ecosystems in the Sithonia peninsula in northern Greece. The pre-burning stands consisted of two storeys; the overstorey of the dominant tree species P. halepensis and the understorey of evergreen sclerophyllous shrubs. The wildfire took place in June 1994. Three months after the fire two experimental plots of 0.75 ha each were established on a northeastern and a southwestern facing slope. In each experimental plot different restoration treatments were applied by using P. halepensis reproductive material. The treatments were the following: (i) planting of paper- pot seedlings, (ii) planting of bare-root seedlings, (iii) seeding in patches, (iv) seeding in strips, (v) seeding in strips and lines. The results of these treatments were compared to the control (no treatment applied). The results showed that all applied restoration works accelerated the rate of regeneration, while the best results were obtained by the method of planting paper-pot seedlings.
40212982|Picris hieracioides var. japonica (Asteraceae), which grows in occasionally disturbed habitats such as riverbanks, is rarely observed under dense vegetation. We examined the effect of the experience and timing of receiving leaf-transmitted light in gap- detecting seed germination in this plant. Seeds under unfiltered light, which simulated the light conditions of seeds on the soil surface in a canopy gap, germinated at a constant temperature of 20C. However, most seeds in darkness, which simulated the light conditions of seeds buried in the soil without receiving leaf-transmitted light, germinated under temperature fluctuations of over 4C. Seeds in darkness after receiving leaf-transmitted light for 1 week, which simulated the light conditions of seeds buried in the soil after receiving leaf-transmitted light, germinated under temperature fluctuations of over 8C. Finally, seeds under continuous leaf-transmitted light, which simulated the light conditions of seeds on the soil surface below preexisting vegetation, germinated under temperature fluctuations of over 12C. Seeds that experience unfiltered light, which suggests that they are in a gap, should not delay germination. In contrast, seeds that have received leaf-transmitted light should delay germination until the vegetation above is removed. Seeds exposed to leaf-transmitted light required larger temperature fluctuations in darkness than did untreated seeds, and seeds under continuous leaf-transmitted light required the largest temperature fluctuations. The various germination reactions to each gap signal in P. hieracioides var. japonica seeds allow the more reliable detection of gaps for subsequent seedling establishment. The requirement for gap signals that created high precision of timing in the germination process results in the germination of this species only in gaps. Therefore, P. hieracioides var. japonica is rarely found under dense vegetation.
41412354|Competition between neighboring plants plays a major role in the population dynamics of tree species in the early phases of humid tropical forest succession. We evaluated the relative importance of above-versus below-ground competition during the first years of old-field succession on soil with low fertility in Southern Mexico, using the premise that competition for light is size-asymmetric, unlike competition for nutrients. Plant growth is thus expected to be disproportionally impeded by larger neighbors. We studied how growth and survival of 3.5-5.5 m tall saplings of Cecropia peltata and Trichospermum mexicanum, two pioneer species that dominate the secondary forests in the study region, varied with the abundance and size of neighboring trees in 1-2 year old secondary vegetation. We found that local neighborhood basal area varied 10-fold (3 to 30 cm m) and explained most of the variation in diameter and height growth of the target saplings. Most growth variables were strongly affected by the neighbors bigger than the focal trees with no significant additive effect of the smaller neighbors, indicating asymmetric competition. Smaller neighbors did have a small but significant additive effect on the diameter growth of Cecropia saplings and stem slenderness of Trichospermum saplings. We conclude that competition for light was more important than belowground competition in this initial phase of moist tropical forest successional, despite the low soil fertility.
20146404| We investigated plant species diversity as it related to stand structure and landscape parameters in abandoned coppice forests in a temperate, deciduous forest area of central Japan, where Fagus crenata was originally dominant. The species occurring in the study plots were classified into habitat types based on a statistical analysis of their occurrence bias in particular habitats (e.g., primary forest, coniferous plantation) in the landscape studied. The relationships between stand structure, which reflected the gradient of management, and forest floor plant species diversity (H and J) and richness (number of species per unit area) were not significant. However, these factors did influence the forest floor plant composition of the different types of habitat. According to the multiple regression analysis, species diversity and the richness of forest floor plants was affected by landscape parameters rather than by stand structure. For trees, species richness was mainly affected by the relative dominance of F. crenata, which is one of the stand structure parameters that decreases with intensive management. This is probably because many of the tree species that are characteristic of coppice forests increase after F. crenata have been eliminated by management; these species are not dominant in the original forest, where they are suppressed by F. crenata, the shade-tolerant dominant species. The species diversity (H and J) of trees was positively correlated with some landscape parameters, including the road density around the study plot, which may be associated with the intensity of management activity. The number of disturbance-tolerant species increased with increasing road density. Stand structure mainly affected disturbance-intolerant forest floor plant species and disturbance-tolerant tree species. Thus, the species diversity responses differed between forest floor plants and trees. The impact of forest management on species diversity was more prominent for forest floor plants. 
41412378|The failure of seeds to arrive at all suitable sites (seed limitation) greatly affects plant distribution and abundance. In contrast to tropical forests, the degree of seed limitation in Neotropical savannas is unclear because empirical studies at the community level are scarce. We estimated seed limitation of 23 woody species from annual seed rain measurements along a tree density gradient in the savannas of Central Brazil. These savannas differ in tree density and canopy cover, from closed to open savannas, and are located along shallow topographic gradients. We also studied post-dispersal seed predation and removal of 17 representative woody species, and seed viability loss over time of 12 common woody species under dry-storage conditions. Annual seed rain was lower in open (410 seeds/m) than in closed savannas (773 seeds/m). Average seed limitation across woody species was higher than 80% along the tree density gradient. More than 60% of seeds of the studied woody species were predated or removed within 30-45 days in all savannah types. Seeds of most common woody species (66%) lost their viability in less than 12 months of dry storage. This study shows that Neotropical savannah woody plants are strongly seedlimited because of low and poor distribution of seeds among sites, post-dispersal seed removal, and short seed longevity. The high seed limitation of tree species in Neotropical savannas, particularly in open savannas, also may contribute to maintain their relatively low tree densities and help to explain the spatial variation of tree abundance along topographic gradients. dry-storage conditions. Annual seed rain was lower in open (410 seeds/m) than in closed savannas (773 seeds/m). Average seed limitation across woody species was higher than 80% along the tree density gradient. More than 60% of seeds of the studied woody species were predated or removed within 30-45 days in all savannah types. Seeds of most common woody species (66%) lost their viability in less than 12 months of dry storage. This study shows that Neotropical savannah woody plants are strongly seedlimited because of low and poor distribution of seeds among sites, post-dispersal seed removal, and short seed longevity. The high seed limitation of tree species in Neotropical savannas, particularly in open savannas, also may contribute to maintain their relatively low tree densities and help to explain the spatial variation of tree abundance along topographic gradients.
20146751|Community assembly during succession can be constrained by both local and regional factors. Despite an increasing regional species pool size during succession, we found a limit on the number of species in 1  1 m plots in dune slacks. Three alternative hypotheses (habitat heterogeneity, dispersal limitation and niche limitation) explaining this community saturation were tested. A null model analysis showed that species richness in the plots had an unusually low variance suggesting that beta habitat diversity was not likely to explain the limitation on species richness. Because we did not find a correlation between the distribution of species over the slack and their dispersal capacity, we also excluded the dispersal limitation hypothesis. Finally, a guild proportionality analysis revealed that the abundances of forb, graminoid and ruderal species showed low an unusually low variance over all age classes involved. This provides evidence for nonrandom community assembly during succession, likely to be determined by competitive exclusion among species of the same guild.
40212977|From 1999 to 2003, a range of carbon fluxes was measured and integrated to establish a carbon balance for a natural evergreen forest of Castanopsis kawakamii (NF) and adjacent monoculture evergreen plantations of C. kawakamii (CK) and Chinese fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata, CF) in Sanming Nature Reserve, Fujian, China. Biomass carbon increment of aboveground parts and coarse roots were measured by the allometric method. Above-and belowground litter C inputs were assessed by litter traps and sequential cores, respectively. Soil respiration (SR) was determined by the alkaline absorbance method, and the contribution from roots, above-and belowground litters was separated by the DIRT plots. Annual SR averaged 13.742 t C ha a in the NF, 9.439 t C ha a in the CK, and 4.543 t C ha a in the CF. For all forests, SR generally peaked in later spring or early summer (May or June). The contribution of root respiration ranged from 47.8% in the NF to 40.3% in the CF. On average, soil heterotrophic respiration (HR) was evenly distributed between below- (47.3~54.5%) and aboveground litter (45.5%- 52.7%). Annual C inputs (t C ha a) from litterfall and root turnover averaged 4.452 and 4.295, 4.548 and 2.313, and 2.220 and 1.265, respectively, in the NF, CK, and CF. As compared to HR, annual net primary production (NPP) of 11.228, 13.264, and 6.491 t C ha a in the NF, CK, and CF brought a positive net ecosystem production (NEP) of 4.144, 7.514, and 3.677 t C ha a , respectively. It suggests that native forest in subtropical China currently acts as an important carbon sink just as the timber plantation does, and converting native forest to tree plantations locally during last decades might have caused a high landscape carbon loss to the atmosphere.
20050544|In a species-rich poor fen (Caricetum nigrae) and a species-poor drained fen, the difference in nutrient limitation of the vegetation was assessed in a full-factorial fertilization experiment with N, P and K. The results were compared to the nutrient ratios of plant material and to chemical analysis of the topsoil. A rewetting experiment with intact sods was carried out in the glasshouse and the results are discussed in view of restoration prospects of drained and degraded peatlands. In the undrained poor fen the above-ground biomass yield was N-limited while the vegetation of the drained fen was K-limited. Experimental rewetting of intact turf samples, taken in the drained site, did not change the biomass yield or the type of nutrient limitation. It was concluded that mire systems which have been subjected to prolonged drainage are inclined to pronounced K-deficiency, probably due to washing out of potassium and harvesting the standing crop. This may hamper restoration projects in degraded peat areas where nature conservation tries to restore species-rich vegetation types with a high nature value.
41429060|Knowledge on the limitation of plant species' distributions is important for preserving alpine biodiversity, particularly when the loss of alpine habitats because of global warming or land use changes is faster than colonization of new habitats. We investigated the potential of the rare alpine plant Campanula thyrsoides L. to colonize grassland sites of different suitability on a small mountain plateau in the Swiss Alps. A total of 15 experimental sites were selected according to their differences in habitat suitability for adult C. thyrsoides, which was measured by the Beals index. At each site we applied a disturbance treatment, added seeds at different densities and monitored the survival of seedlings over two consecutive years. The number of surviving seedlings was not positively related to habitat suitability for adult C. thyrsoides. Furthermore, C. thyrsoides appears to be strongly dispersal limited at the regional scale because seed addition to unoccupied habitats resulted in successful germination and survival of seedlings.Since an increase of seed density in already occupied sites did not affect the number of seedlings, we suggest that C. thyrsoides is microsite limited at the local scale. Microsite limitation is supported by the result that seedling survival of the species was enhanced in vegetation gaps created by disturbance. We conclude that C. thyrsoides may become endangered in the future if environmental changes cause local extinction of populations. An appropriate management, such as a disturbance regime for enhancing recruitment in existing populations, may ensure the long-term survival of this rare alpine plant species.
20050729|The prevailing paradigm of tree life histories emphasises strong interrelationships between growth, longevity and reproductive traits, attributing contrasting suites of correlated traits to 'pioneer' and 'climax' or 'non-pioneer' species. In tropical and southern temperate rainforests, although many of the species that require large gaps for regeneration conform to the expectations of small size and short lifespan, a number of others are long-lived canopy or emergent trees. Age data reported here for Weinmannia trichosperma, a shade-intolerant emergent tree in the temperate rainforests of southern Chile, indicate a maximum lifespan (&gt730 yr) exceeding those previously reported for any other angiosperm of the region. The long lifespan of W. trichosperma is associated with relatively slow growth, reflecting investment of resources in dense wood and possibly other defensive traits. Growth rates of W. trichosperma are much slower than those of associated short-lived pioneer trees, and apparently also slower than some of its more shade-tolerant associates. The light-demanding nature of many of the longest-lived trees in southern temperate forests highlights an important limitation of the classical pioneer-climax paradigm as a framework for understanding tree life history variation and modelling forest dynamics in this biome. A longevity advantage over Nothofagus spp. may help explain the relative abundance of W. trichosperma in the lower to mid-elevation coast range forests in the Chilean lakes district, where the scarcity or absence of Nothofagus in many stands has been attributed to a low frequency of coarse-scale disturbance.
20146939|Human activity often causes a decline in the local density of plant populations. Below some critical lower density, populations may suffer a progressive decline in reproductive success because of the difficulties associated with finding suitable mates. Therefore, to conserve endangered plant species it is necessary to understand in greater detail how changes in population density affect different determinants of plant reproductive success. We simultaneously recorded individual plant pollination success, reproductive effort and fruit parasitism in three populations of Cistus ladanifer L. in eastern Portugal. Pollination success declined significantly as distance to the nearest conspecific increased (p&lt0.001). However, reproductive effort and fruit parasitism showed the opposite pattern (both p&lt0.001). On average, plants farther than 1 m from their nearest conspecific suffered from three times more fruit parasitism compared to plants closer to a conspecific. Overall, net female reproductive output decreased as nearest neighbor distance rose (p&lt0.001). Thus, isolated plants were able to compensate only partially for reduced pollination success through increased reproductive effort. We conclude that management plans for plant populations should recognize that reproductive success is the accumulated result of several different processes, which may each respond to plant density in different ways.
40305746|Bryophyte diaspore banks are a potential source of reproductive propagules that may be able to colonize newly available habitat after forest harvesting. However, their role and the factors influencing the successful establishment of species remain poorly understood. To investigate these aspects of diaspore banks, we obtained mineral soil samples from mixed and coniferous stands of boreal mixed-wood forest in northern Alberta, Canada, which had recently experienced a range of harvesting intensities. Samples were germinated in growth cabinets under two light regimes. The composition of germinated bryophyte species was compared among forest types, harvesting intensities, and light levels, and also related to edaphic conditions and geographic location of the sample site. Germinated species composition was not related to forest type or harvesting intensity, but was associated with measured edaphic variables and geographic space, indicating that similarity in species composition reflected similarity in edaphic conditions and spatial proximity. This was partly because of spatial dependence of edaphic variables. Light intensity had a significant influence on the development of species assemblages and individual species responses. Richness and cover of acrocarpous mosses (fugitive, colonist, and shuttle life-history strategies) were significantly reduced under low light conditions, but pleurocarpous mosses (perennial strategy) were not affected. Shannon diversity and the frequency of reproduction were significantly greater with high light. Pleurocarpous mosses that are characteristic of intact forests germinated frequently, suggesting that diaspore banks may influence their recovery after disturbance. Diaspore banks are a repository of species at sites affected by forest harvesting; however, diaspore germination and establishment will be constrained by the local environment, including edaphic conditions and light intensity.
41412375|The diversity of spring habitats can be determined not only by local environmental conditions, but also by large-scale biogeographical effects. The effects can differ across various groups of organisms. We compared -, - and -diversity patterns of bryophytes and vascular plants of (subalpine springs in three contrasting mountain ranges: Alps (Switzerland), Balkans (Bulgaria), Western Carpathians (Slovakia, Poland). We used univarate and multivariate statistics to test for the effects of pH, conductivity, altitude, slope, mean annual temperature and annual precipitation on diversity patterns of both taxonomic groups and compared diversity patterns among the regions for particular pH and conductivity classes. We identified acidophyte and basiphyte, calcifuge and caldcle species using species response modelling. All regions displayed significant relationship between conductivity and -diversity of vascular plants. Bulgaria showed the highest -diversity of vascular plants for the middle part of the conductivity gradient. For both taxonomic groups, the -diversity in the middle part of gradient was highest in Swiss Alps. The total species pool was lowest in Bulgaria. The percentage of basiphyte and caldcle species was highest in the Alps. In (sub) alpine springs, mineral richness was a better determinant of vascular plant -diversity than pH, and the extent of the alpine area did not coincide with -diversity. Observed interregional differences in diversity patterns could be explained by the different proportion of limestone bedrock and different biogeographic history. The differences in -diversity between both taxonomic groups are presumably result of the different rates of adaptation processes. classes. We identified acidophyte and basiphyte, calcifuge and caldcle species using species response modelling. All regions displayed significant relationship between conductivity and -diversity of vascular plants. Bulgaria showed the highest -diversity of vascular plants for the middle part of the conductivity gradient. For both taxonomic groups, the -diversity in the middle part of gradient was highest in Swiss Alps. The total species pool was lowest in Bulgaria. The percentage of basiphyte and caldcle species was highest in the Alps. In (sub) alpine springs, mineral richness was a better determinant of vascular plant -diversity than pH, and the extent of the alpine area did not coincide with -diversity. Observed interregional differences in diversity patterns could be explained by the different proportion of limestone bedrock and different biogeographic history. The difference in -diversity between both taxonomic groups are presumbly result of the different rates of adaptation processes.
41412352|Surface temperatures have risen globally during the last 30 years, especially in alpine areas. It is recognized that these increases are influencing phenology, physiology and distribution of plants. However, few studies have addressed the effects of climate warming at the species range boundary, where plants are expected to be more stressed. We analysed 11-year data sets of inflorescence production of four alpine plants (Carex foetida, Leucanthemopsis alpina, Senecio incanus, Silene suecica) at the southern boundary of their distribution range in the N-Apennines (N-Italy), in relation to air temperature and snow cover persistence. Inflorescence production of all species fluctuated greatly and was significantly affected by the variation of the mean temperature of June/July. We found significant relationships also between species data series and the snow cover persistence. Moreover, species responded differently to such parameters. One species showed a significant decrease of the reproductive effort, whereas the other three showed a stable trend of inflorescence production. We have shown that some alpine species are favoured by increased temperature and reduced snow cover even at the boundary of their range, where they are thought to be particularly sensitive to warming. However, the aptitude to cope with climate change might be limited by competition against thermophilous species migrating from lower altitude and in some cases by the low altitude of mountain peaks that prevent species upward migration. The individualistic response of species to climate change found here, support the statement that the composition of plant communities might rapidly change in the future.
23267451|We examined the effects of soil mesofauna and the litter decomposition environment (above and belowground) on leaf decomposition rates in three forest types in southeastern Brazil. To estimate decomposition experimentally, we used litterbags with a standard substrate in a full-factorial experimental design. We used model selection to compare three decomposition models and also to infer the importance of forest type, decomposition environment, mesofauna, and their interactions on the decomposition process. Rather than the frequently used simple and double-exponential models, the best model to describe our dataset was the exponential deceleration model, which assumed a single organic compartment with an exponential decrease of the decomposition rate. Decomposition was higher in the wet than in the seasonal forest, and the differences between forest types were stronger aboveground. Regarding litter decomposition environment, decomposition was predominantly higher below than aboveground, but the magnitude of this effect was higher in the seasonal than in wet forests. Mesofauna exclusion treatments had slower decomposition, except aboveground into the Semi-deciduous Forest, where the mesofauna presence did not affect decomposition. Furthermore, the effect of mesofauna was stronger in the wet forests and belowground. Overall, our results suggest that, in a regional scale, both decomposers activity and the positive effect of soil mesofauna in decomposition are constrained by abiotic factors, such as moisture conditions.
20146567|Fire is known to be a major factor in shaping plants and vegetation worldwide. Many plant traits have been described as adaptations for surviving fire, or regenerating after it. However, many of the traits are also advantageous for overcoming other disturbances. The fact that fire in the Mediterranean Basin has been almost exclusively of anthropogenic origin, and thus is of short duration in an evolutionary time scale, cast doubt on the possibility that fire can act as a selective force in the Mediterranean Basin. Our aim here is to review the ecological advantages of Pinus halepensis traits and their possibility to be selected by fire. The non-self pruning of cones and branches, and the high resin content increase the probability of canopy fires and consequent death of P. halepensis trees. Post-fire regeneration of P. halepensis depends totally upon its canopy-stored seed bank. The seedlings grow quickly and they first reproduce at an early age. Young reproductive trees function first as females with a high percentage of serotinous cones. Thus, young P. halepensis trees allocate many resources to seed production, reducing their 'immaturity risk' in a case of an early successive fire. The proportion of serotinous cones is higher in post-fire naturally regenerating stands than in unburned stands, and seeds from serotinous cones germinate better under simulated post-fire conditions. The extremely high pH of the ash-bed under the burned canopies creates the post-fire regeneration niche of P. halepensis exactly under their parent trees. All these traits are advantageous for post-fire regeneration, but could they also be selected during the time scale of anthropogenic fires in the Mediterranean Basin? Pinus halepensis is a relatively short living tree with almost no recruitment under forest canopy. The longest estimated fire-return interval and generation length are about 125 years. The earliest solid evidence for the first hominid-controlled fire in the Mediterranean basin is 780,000 years ago, and thus the estimated number of post-fire generations is 6240. We suggest that such a number of generations is sufficient for the selection and radiation of fire adaptive traits in P. halepensis.
20050539|Three subpopulations of Ferocactus cylindraceus, a short-columnar cactus of the Sonoran and Mojave deserts, were sampled in Grand Canyon, Arizona, USA, at sites representing a range of substrate ages and different grazing histories. Age-height relations were determined from annual growth, then used to estimate probable year of establishment for each cohort. Eight years between 1944 and 1992 were especially favorable for establishment. Six of these 8 years coincided with El Nio-Southern Oscillation conditions, indicating that as for many woody plants in arid regions, somewhat unusual climatic conditions are necessary if populations are to replace themselves. Comparison of age structures showed that established and developing populations have somewhat different dynamics in that the rate of population increase was slowest on the youngest terrace. On the ancient terraces, about half the plants were less than 25 years old. Plants older than 40 years were few; however the oldest plants in the study (about 49 years) grew on the ancient terraces. On the recent terrace, 76% of the subpopulation was 25 years or younger, and the oldest living plant was about 36 years of age. The age structures of subpopulations on grazed and ungrazed sites also differed markedly. On ungrazed sites, subpopulations were more or less at equilibrium, with enough young plants to replace old ones as they died. In contrast, the subpopulation on the grazed site was in a state of marked disequilibrium. Grazing before 1981 largely extirpated a palatable subshrub that was probably an important nurse plant. Until the shrub population at Indian Canyon recovers from decades of burro grazing, a rebound in F. cylindraceus establishment is not to be expected.
40305668|To explore genetic variation in defence against the natural herbivores of Arabidopsis thaliana, we transplanted genotypes between a dune habitat and inland habitat in both of which A. thaliana occurred naturally. In previous years we had observed that the specialist weevils Ceutorhynchus atomus and C. contractus (Curculionidae) fed conspicuously on flowers and fruits of A. thaliana in the dunes, while these weevils were always rare in inland habitats. Taking all plants together, total fruit damage was indeed much higher in our experimental plots in the dune habitat (59.7%) relative to the inland garden habitat (18.9%). Within a habitat, additional differences existed between plants of different origins, pointing to genetic differences in ecologically relevant characters; plants of inland origin flowered a week earlier, grew better and produced more fruits than plants of dune origin. However, plants of inland origin experienced more total fruit damage by the specialist weevils (75.4%) than plants of dune origin (44.0%) when the two types grew side by side in the dune habitat. Escape from herbivory gives dune genotypes an advantage in their native habitat, whereas stronger growth and higher survival gives inland genotypes an edge under garden conditions.
20146735|Resorption of nitrogen (N) from senescing leaves is an important conservation mechanism that allows plants to use the same N repeatedly. We measured the extent of N resorption in plants co-occurring in a beech forest to examine the variability of N resorption, especially in relation to growth irradiance. Measurements were done in three deciduous woody species; one adult and several juvenile trees of Fagus crenata and several adult trees of Lindera umbellata and Magnolia salicifolia. N resorption efficiency (
23500413|Root-sprouting can enable vegetative regeneration in response to disturbance. Root-sprouting is common among species in ruderal habitats, but is characteristic of only the rarest clonal species in wetlands. Although, its scarcity under waterlogged conditions can be explained by phylogeny, ecological constraints (e.g., energy costs of root bud formation under anoxia) may also be important. In a greenhouse pot experiment with the root-sprouting herb Rorippa palustris, we subjected plants from wetland and ruderal habitats to injury and flooding. Plant responses to injury/flooding treatments did not differ among the habitats. Plants subjected to short-term flooding were taller, but produced the same quantity of seeds relative to the control. Although, severe injury resulted in vegetative regeneration, this treatment reduced seed production. The combination of injury and flooding caused high mortality and greatly decreased seed production. Injured plants that regenerated were more likely than flooded or control plants to over-winter and compensate for reduced seed production in subsequent years. The results indicate that substantial phenotypic plasticity rather than local adaptation enables R. palustris to occupy habitats with different disturbance regimes. Because flooding is often accompanied by injury in the field, the results demonstrate that ecological constraints can explain why flooding limits root-sprouting in wetlands.
40305635|To illustrate the ecological factors and process leading to the observed diversity patterns of vascular epiphytes, we examined the effect and importance of host tree traits on epiphyte richness and spatial aggregation of epiphytes. The study was conducted in warm-temperate forest in Japan. The recorded host traits were diameter, height, species, habitat topography, and growth rate, and we analyzed the effects and importance of these traits on three species groups: total epiphytic species, epiphytic orchid species, and epiphytic pteridophyte species. Diameter and species of host trees had the greatest influence on epiphytes and their magnitudes were roughly similar in all species groups. Growth rate and topography were less important than host size and species. Growth rate had a negative effect on all three groups, and topography was important for pteridophytes. Epiphyte richness did not exhibit clear spatial aggregation. Our results suggest that size, stability, and quality of the host are equally important in determining epiphyte colonization.
41508757|This study adds information on the dynamics of pioneer forest trees in the face of frequent fire. In particular, effects of fire on the regeneration dynamics and ecological attributes of a Tessaria integrifolia forest and a Cortaderia selloana grassland, located in the Costanera Sur Ecological Reserve, Buenos Aires, are analyzed. Based on the study of ten transects along a forest-grassland gradient, a considerable incidence of fire and resilient response to it were observed on grasslands. On the other hand, the forest proved resistant to fire, not showing evidence of its action. Despite its invasive tendencies, C. selloana was unable to establish itself in the forest or in the forest-grassland ecotones. Conversely, following the action of fire, T. integrifolia could be found in areas previously dominated by grassland, leading to an expansion of the forest. Replacement of grasslands with a T. integrifolia forest indicates a reduction in the incidence of and surface area susceptible to fire, as well as an increase in biodiversity. The post-fire colonization observed for T. integrifolia has not been previously described for this widely distributed South American species.
20146556|The effects of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) fertilization on seedling survival, recruitment, species richness and diversity in two abandoned tropical dry forests (10-yr old, young forest, and c. 60-yr old, old forest) in Yucatn, Mexico, were studied over two years. The seedling dynamics in the control plots were found to be highly seasonal with highest recruitment and lowest death rates during the rainy season. A low percentage of seedlings were resprouts; this important mechanism for forest regeneration had a higher-than-expected survival when compared to seedlings regenerated from seeds. Nutrient addition had significant effects on seedling dynamics in both of the forest regeneration stages. In the young forest, N fertilization facilitated the increase of seedling density. In the old forest, the addition of P decreased seedling diversity, while it increased the recruitment of only a few species. In both forests, P fertilization increased the survival time of seedlings when interacting with light availability and bulk density on the topsoil layer. Results suggest that low nutrient availability combined with low light availability constrain forest succession in Yucatn, Mexico.
40540362|In recent years, reproductive interference (RI), the fitness cost of reproductive activities among species, has received much attention as a factor in competitive exclusion by alien species. In this study, we aimed to explain the distribution of two annual alien Xanthium species (X. occidentale and X. italicum) found in the northern Kinki Distinct of Japan from the viewpoint of RI. First, specimen records demonstrated that Xanthium occidentale was more dominant in all habitats except seaside habitats. Subsequently, using artificial patches of potted plants, we demonstrated that X. italicum suffered intense RI from X. occidentale. Finally, X. italicum was superior to X. occidentale in tolerating salinity stress. Combining these results, we concluded that the asymmetrical RI caused by X. occidentale displaced X. italicum except in seaside habitats, where X. occidentale could not establish colonies. Furthermore, we discuss the possibility that a similar RI effect caused the extinction of native species.
40305425|The size-dependent sex allocation model predicts that the relative resource allocation to female function often increases with plant size in animal-pollinated plants. If size effects on reproductive success vary depending on the environmental conditions, however, the size dependency may differ among populations. We tried to detect sitespecific variation in size-dependent sex allocation of a monocarpic hermaphrodite with reference to light availability. Multiple flowers and fruits were sampled from the individuals of Cardiocrinum cordatum, a monocarpic understory herb, and pollen, ovule and seed production were measured with reference to the plant size in two populations. Furthermore, frequency and foraging behavior of pollinator visitation was observed. Ovule production per flower increased with plant size in both populations, while pollen production per flower increased with size only in the population under sparse canopy. Therefore, proportional allocation to male function decreased with plant size in the population under closed canopy, but did not change in the population under sparse canopy. Pollinators usually visited only one flower per plant, indicating the negligible geitonogamous pollination in this species. Although seed production under closed canopy was lower than that under sparse canopy, seed-set rate per flower and seed mass per fruit were independent of plant size in either of the populations. Size-dependent sex allocation in this species was sitespecific, suggesting that not only resource storage before reproduction (i.e., plant size) but also resource availability of environment throughout the reproductive process (i.e., light availability) affect reproductive performance in this species.
20146656|A study of the flowering and fruiting phenology was undertaken for twenty species of the xerochamaephytic communities that characterize the mountain-crest areas of the island of Majorca (Balearic Islands, Spain). The flowering period of the species considered extends from March to November, with the majority flowering during the spring and early summer, and a peak in June. The flowering duration at the species level is longest for Rosmarinus officinalis var. palaui (which flowered in spring and autumn) and was shortest for Genista majorica and Rubia balearica. In this community, three strategies were observed that may serve to reduce interspecific competition between pollinators: 1) pollination specialization of white-pink flowers; 2) high diversification of yellow flower pollinators; and 3) the divergence in flowering time of less common flower colours. The flowering duration of individual plants and whole populations are positively correlated, which may indicate that individuals of each population optimize the time which is phenologically useful. The flowering of the spiny cushion species of the community is characterized by a smaller intraspecific overlap in comparison to the other species examined.
40305465|Communities of plants determine nonrandom spatial patterns defined by the intervention of abiotic and biotic factors acting at different spatial scales. We consider the influence of shrubs as one of the most important factors (biotic) affecting these spatial patterns at microscale. The macroclimate could be considered one of the most important factors (abiotic) at regional scale. To study the role and the floristic implications of each factor on the global patterns of herbaceous communities, we have developed a stratified sampling design that integrates both micro and macroscale on a 100 Km-long transect (east-west) in western central Spain. The results suggest that macroclimate could be one of the most important factors in determining herbaceous spatial patterns. Moreover, shrubs create a microspatial environmental heterogeneity that could alter such global climate patterns, modifying the spatial affinities established among species. This implies that environmental heterogeneity related to microhabitat could play a key role in spatial patterns at broad spatial scales, and consequently in the dynamics of the distribution and establishment of herbaceous species.
20050923|The flowering phenologies of three sympatric legumes, Dillwynia hispida Lindley, D. uncinata (Turcz.)J. Black and Pultenaea densifolia F. Muell. (Fabaceae), were measured over a three-year period in a semi-arid ecosystem. Each species produced a single flowering episode per year which lasted about 15 weeks and which overlapped considerably with those of the remaining two species. A comparison of the actual flowering schedules over two years with those generated from Monte Carlo simulations showed that the flowering schedules of the three species were significantly clumped. Fruit-to-flower ratios on D. hispida plants were calculated over two flowering periods and these values were correlated with conspecific and heterospecific flower abundances to determine whether the extent of overlap in flowering schedules was associated with elevated or depressed levels of fruit set. Partial correlations between heterospecific floral densities and fruit-to-flower ratios were usually positive, indicating a possible selective advantage favouring these convergent flowering schedules.
20050431|Understanding the potential impact of ozone depletion on terrestrial ecosystems is constrained by lack of information on the effects of environmentally realistic UV-B doses on terrestrial organisms other than higher plants. Increasing UV-B may alter interactions between plants and consumers through direct effects on consumer organisms (herbivores, phytopathogens, decomposers, etc.). The effects of increasing UV-B on arthropods are not known. Significant UV-B effects on fungi have been reported, and may be either negative (inhibition of spore germination and mycelial growth) or positive (increased growth, induction of reproductive development and sporulation). However, in many cases consumers are unlikely to be directly exposed to UV-B in the field. In addition, UV action spectra for fungi suggest that this major group may be less sensitive to the effects of ozone depletion than higher plants. Host mediated effects of UV-B on consumers may include alterations in plant chemistry. While secondary metabolites such as phenolics may increase under increased UV-B, this is not invariably the case and evidence that such changes have significant effects on consumers is limited. In particular, there is no evidence that increased UV-B increases resistance of higher plants to fungal pathogens. Indeed, increased UV-B prior to inoculation results in no significant effect or increased disease. Such responses may be attributable to UV-B effects on host surface properties or on compounds other than phenolics. However, such changes are poorly known, and their potential effects on phytopathogens, herbivores or decomposers cannot be assessed. Understanding the effects of UV-B on terrestrial ecosystems is further limited since virtually nothing is known of possible impacts on higher trophic levels, i.e. predators, parasites or pathogens.
20050699|The phenological pattern of fifteen Mediterranean phanaerophytes has been studied in several sites per species, by visiting the populations on a monthly basis over a one year period. Studied phenophases were dolichoblast vegetative growth (DVG), flower bud formation (FBF), flowering (F), fruit setting (FS), seed dispersal (SD), and leaf shedding of dolichoblasts (LSD). Considering the whole set of species, DVG, FBF and F took place mainly in spring, FS in summer, SD in autumn and LSD in summer and in autumn. Interspecific comparisons showed a wide variety of phenological patterns, which have been sorted according to the 'phenophase sequence index' (PSI). This index quantifies the degree of superposition between DVG, FBF and F, and it constituted the basis for a functional classification of phenological patterns. Two groups were established. The 'type I' group was characterised by the concentration of phenophases in a short time in spring, while the 'type II' by the protraction and sequential arrangement of phenophases. Type I species performed most of their functions during a resource surplus period, but they have to face an intraplant competition between vegetative and reproductive demands. Type II species avoided intraplant competition but had to develop part of DVG, FBF and F during sub-optimal periods. It is hypothesised that type I species possess deeper roots, rely on predictable water sources and occupy mature stages of succession. Type II species, on the contrary, are expected to depend on more unpredictable water sources, to possess shallower root systems and to colonise earlier stages of succession. Intraspecific variability of phenology was found to be low among populations of the same species. Bud structure, which is a phylogenetic trait, may exert important constraints on plant phenology.
20146495|The objectives of this study were to test potential effects of solar ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation on (i) foliage nutritional quality and foliage decomposition rates of six plant species of this fen ecosystem (Nothofagus antarctica, Carex curta, C. decidua and C. magellanica; Acaena magellanica and Gunnera magellanica) and (ii) feeding preferences for these plant species of the slug Deroceras reticulatum prevalent in this ecosystem. In a mixed-diet selection slugs were offered leaves of the six species that had been grown for three years in experimental field plots under either near-ambient or reduced solar ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation. The chosen characteristics of leaf quality (nitrogen concentration, carbon:nitrogen ratio, specific leaf area) and leaf decomposition rates of the six species varied significantly among species but were not affected by the UV-B treatments. However, there were UV-B treatment effects on slug feeding preference for two plant species. For the tree species, Nothofagus, slugs had consumed only one-third as much foliage grown under near-ambient UV-B radiation as of foliage grown under reduced UV-B by the end of the feeding experiment. In contrast, leaves of the sedge C. decidua that had been grown under near-ambient UV-B were consumed twice as much as leaves grown under reduced UV-B radiation. Consumption of foliage for the other four species was similar for the two UV-B treatments. Additionally, diet selection of the slugs was also significantly affected by prior UV-B conditions under which foliage had been grown. Nothofagus leaves were consumed proportionately less and C. decidua proportionately more if the foliage had been grown under near-ambient UV-B radiation.
20050802|Both vertical and horizontal heterogeneity in red light levels and in the red/far red ratio were measured in a mountain grassland and correlated with the vegetation structure. Vertical change in the red/far red ratio was measured in three communities; canopy structure and density was investigated by the point-quadrat method and biomass harvesting. Quantities of both grasses and dicots were significantly correlated with R/FR ratio and red light intensity at ground level. In dicots, percentage cover determines their effect on light levels; in contrast, no single parameter suffices to capture the effect of grasses: grass biomass, number of hits (cover) and the mean height (distance from the soil surface) of grass hits are of importance. This indicates strikingly different geometry and optical properties of both plant groups. The fine-scale horizontal heterogeneity was assessed by means of a grid of 3.3  3.3 cm cells (plots of 8  8 cells) in the species-poor community. Both red light and R/FR ratio were determined at soil level in all the grid cells; fine-scale vegetation recording was done by counting all rooted stems (leaves for large rosette plants) in these cells. Spatial autocorrelation (Moran's I) of fine-scale heterogeneity in light levels, biomass per cell and individual species occurrences revealed many significant autocorrelations. Light levels (particularly red light) show autocorrelations at the distance of 1-2 cells (3.3-6.7 cm); biomass shows little autocorrelation. A multivariate analysis (redundancy analysis) showed that cellwise densities of two species had significant and systematic correlations with the light levels (both red light and R/FR ratio): a grass species with wide, mainly horizontal leaves, Anthoxanthum alpinum, was negatively correlated with light levels; Nardus stricta, with upright and narrow leaves and stems was positively correlated with light levels.
20146943|Riparian forest communities dominated by Populus balsamifera ssp. trichocarpa L. (Torr. and Gray ex Hook.) Brayshaw are important contributors to biodiversity in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems of the Western United States. Species composition along a successional gradient from stand initiation to late-succession of P. balsamifera-dominated riparian forests was investigated along 145 km of the Willamette River, Oregon. There were 151 total species encountered across 28 stands and a mean species richness of 33.3 species per stand. Young stands were dominated by P. balsamifera and Salix tree spp. and opportunistic herbaceous species. Understory trees, shrubs, and herbaceous species as well as late-successional tree species established 12-15 years after stand initiation. Fraxinus latifolia Benth. was the dominant late-successional tree species. Vertical structural diversity, P. balsamifera mean diameter at breast height, large tree biomass, and stand age were strongly correlated with understory species presence and abundance based on non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) ordination. There were no young stands on mid and high terraces and this was reflected in geomorphic position being strongly correlated with the stand age gradient. Abundance of Phalaris arundinacea L. an invasive grass species, was also significantly correlated with plant species composition and abundance. This study indicates that Willamette River riparian forests are diverse and therefore important to the biodiversity of the Willamette River valley and that their presence as a mosaic of communities of different successional stages may be threatened by human interventions, including influences exerted by introduced plant species.
20147000|In the highlands of northern Ethiopia, remnants of the original Afromontane forest vegetation are largely restricted to church yards and other sacred groves in a matrix of cropland and semiarid degraded savanna. To assess the potential for natural forest regeneration, species composition and diversity of all forest fragments (10) in a study area of 13,000 ha were analyzed in relation to environmental and soil variables. Using a random design and a density of approximately one plot per 2 ha in all fragments, 31 2020 m plots were sampled. Indicator species analysis and MRPP tests yielded five communities representing two forest types and one degraded savanna habitat. The forest fragments had a species-poor tree and shrub community in which plots were rather homogeneous and most species abundant. NMDS and analysis of variance indicated that a topographical gradient correlated to soil phosphorus, soil depth, stoniness and the proximity to the river system explained the major differences in species composition and separated moist and dry Afromontane forest communities. The grazing intensity further partitioned the habitats. Present communities and their environmental correlates indicate that the secondary climax forest in the area probably consisted of dry Afromontane forest interlaced by broad strips of moist Afromontane forest along rivers and streams and not a continuous, mono-dominant Juniperus forest as is often presumed. Negative effects of the degraded matrix on forest fragments increased with decreasing patch area and increasing shape irregularity. Nevertheless, all remaining fragments are important for their role in the landscape ecology of the region as refuges and species pools and should be protected and managed accordingly. If seed dispersal from forest fragments into exclosures and subsequent tree recruitment are both successful, the vegetation type most likely to establish is Afromontane savanna woodland, and if managed properly, eventually dry Afromontane forest may arise. Increasing the size of small patches and placing forest plantations and exclosures in the vicinity of small forest fragments is expected to yield the most immediate results. This approach may increase the likelihood of patch colonisation by frugivorous forest birds and thus foster the regeneration of native woody species.
20050874|Diversity of vegetation in managed forests is studied. A classification based on forest stand structure, the abundances of vegetation species and variations in these abundances is developed and diversity indices are calculated for the classes to describe the diversity of the vegetation within the classes. The classes were formed using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), global nonmetric multidimensional scaling (GNMDS) and TWINSPAN classification. Discriminant analysis was used to determine the environmental variables differentiating between the classes, and Duncan's multiple range test was used to examine the ability of the diversity measures to distinguish the classes. Beta diversity was estimated with kland's method based on DCA ordination of the sample plots. The results point to fertility and the successional stage of the stand as the main factors affecting species diversity, in addition to which soil type, the number of tree species, crown cover, basal area and certain variables describing the management of the stand were relevant to the classification. The most distinct diversity indices were the reciprocal of Simpson, Pielou's J' and species richness, while the highest alpha diversity was found in young stands with a low crown cover on herb-rich or mesic forest sites. Beta diversity was quite high, its highest values of all for the whole data being recorded along the fertility gradient.
40305475|Southern Siberian mountain ranges encompass strong climatic contrasts from the relatively oceanic northern foothills to strongly continental intermountain basins in the south. Landscapescale climatic differences create vegetation patterns, which are analogous to the broad-scale vegetation zonation over large areas of northern Eurasia. In their southern, continental areas, these mountains harbour forest types which potentially resemble the fullglacial forests recently reconstructed for Central Europe. To identify forest vegetation-environment relationships in the southern Siberian mountain ranges, forest vegetation of the Western Sayan Mountains was sampled on a 280 km transect running from the northern foothills with oceanic climatic features to the continental Central Tuvinian Basin in the south. Based on the species composition, vegetation was classified into hemiboreal forests, occurring at drier and summer-warm sites with high-pH soil, and taiga, occurring at wetter, summer-cool sites with acidic soil. Hemiboreal forests included Betula pendula-Pinus sylvestris mesic forest, Larix sibirica dry forest and Pinus sylvestris dry forest. Taiga included Abies sibirica-Betula pendula wet forest, Abies sibirica-Pinus sibirica mesic forest and Pinus sibirica-Picea obovata continental forest. Hemiboreal forests were richer in vascular plant species, while taiga was richer in ground-dwelling cryptogams. Vegetationenvironment relationships were analysed by indirect and direct ordination. Winter and summer temperatures and precipitation exerted a dominant influence on species composition. Soil pH was also an important correlate of species composition, but this factor itself was probably controlled by precipitation. At a more local scale, the main source of variation in species composition was topography, producing landscape patterns of contrasting plant communities on slopes of different aspects and valley bottoms. The response of tree species to major environmental factors was expressed with Huisman-Olff-Fresco models. Larix sibirica appeared to be most resistant to drought and winter frosts, Pinus sibirica was adapted to low temperatures both in winter and summer, and Picea obovata had an intermediate response to climate. Betula pendula, Pinus sylvestris and Populus tremula were associated with the warmest sites with intermediate precipitation, while Abies sibirica was the most moisturedemanding species, sensitive to deep winter frosts.
40802523|The population dynamics of invasive plants are influenced by positive and negative associations formed with members of the fauna present in the introduced range. For example, mutualistic associations formed with pollinators or seed dispersers may facilitate invasion, but reduced fitness from attack by native herbivores can also suppress it. Since population expansion depends on effective seed dispersal, interactions with seed dispersers and predators in a plant species introduced range may be of particular importance. We explored the relative contributions of potential seed dispersers (ants) and vertebrate predators (rodents and birds) to seed removal of two diplochorous (i.e., wind-and antdispersed), invasive thistles, Cirsium arvense and Carduus nutans, in Colorado, USA. We also conducted behavior trials to explore the potential of different ant species to disperse seeds, and we quantified which potential ant dispersers were prevalent at our study locations. Both ants and vertebrate predators removed significant amounts of C. arvense and C. nutans seed, with the relative proportion of seed removed by each guild varying by location. The behavior trials revealed clear seed preferences among three ant species as well as differences in the foragers' abilities to move seeds. In addition, two ant species that acted as potential dispersal agents were dominant at the study locations. Since local conditions in part determined whether dispersers or predators removed more seed, it is possible that some thistle populations benefit from a net dispersal effect, while others suffer proportionally more prdation. Additionally, because the effectiveness of potential ant dispersers is taxonspecific, changes in ant community composition could affect the seed-dispersal dynamics of these thistles. Until now, most studies describing dispersal dynamics in C. arvense and nutans have focused on primary dispersal by wind or pre-dispersal seed prdation by insects. Our findings suggest that animal-mediated dispersal and post-dispersal seed prdation deserve further consideration.
41508771|Tree species composition and stand structural complexity are valuable indicators of sustainable forest management. This article aims to investigate the relative influence of forest overstorey composition and structural attributes on understorey composition and diversity, taking into account also site characteristics and broad-scale environmental variables. We sampled vascular plant species composition and forest structure in 132 plots in the Cilento and Vallo di Diano National Park (southern Italy). Spearman's non-parametric correlation coefficients were calculated between overstorey and understorey diversity indices, beech percentage, and altitude and environmental indices. A complete partitioning of the variation in understorey composition was then performed through canonical correspondence analysis considering four sets of variables: (1) overstorey composition, (2) structural attributes, (3) topography, and (4) landscape abiotic variables. Finally, we constructed a regression tree analysis of understorey species richness using the same explanatory variables. Understorey diversity indices were positively correlated with overstorey diversity indices and with environmental indices (i.e., light and soil heterogeneity). Overstorey and understorey diversity indices were negatively correlated with both altitude and the dominance of beech in the overstorey. Compositional variation was due primarily to overstorey composition and secondarily to structural attributes. Regression tree analysis revealed that altitude, overstorey species richness, and structural attributes play an important role in determining understorey species richness. According to our results, understorey composition and diversity are strongly related to overstorey composition and structural attributes. Indeed, the latter proved to be effective indicators of understorey characteristics in the study area.
40666615|Plant species composition is a critical issue in ecological research. Studies on the characteristics of plant species composition in the built-up areas, however, are hampered by a lack of basic field-based investigation. In this article, the plant species composition in the built-up areas of Beijing, China, is investigated using abundant field observations. The origin of species, chorological spectra, life forms and plant communities were determined. The characteristic species in each type of green space were determined by k-means classification, and urban plant communities were identified by two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN). Plant species composition in the built-up areas was further compared with that in natural mountain floras in Beijing to reveal the differences in life form composition and chorological spectra, and the coincidence of species in the two communities. A total of 618 plant species belonging to 349 genera and 103 families were identified. Our results revealed wide chorological spectra with trees dominated by deciduous species. Although native plant species were widely distributed, 53% of the plant species were aliens, among which 67% were introduced from America and other Asian countries. Furthermore, the characteristics of the plant species composition in the built-up areas are significantly different from those of the natural habitats. Our results highlight the dramatic changes in characteristics of plant species composition in the built-up area of Beijing. Several suggestions are proposed to increase the diversity of native species through the planning and management of green spaces.
20146481| When white-tailed deer populations reach high densities, they have negative and often dramatic effects on forest herb populations. However, it is not clear how deer affect the demographic processes of plant populations. We examined how the structure and dynamics of Trillium grandiflorum (Michx.) Salisb. populations are affected by deer browsing in the Upper Great Lakes region by sampling populations from nine study sites in a forested landscape in 1998 and 1999. We constructed a stage-based matrix population model for the regional population. Our model indicated that the long-term growth rate of the population to be -3.56% per year ( = 0.965). Mortality rates were highest for seeds (97.5%) followed by seedlings (29.1%), and lower for all remaining stage classes (4.9 to 8.5%). The observed stage distribution significantly differed from the stable stage distribution, and the damping ratio ( = 1.103) indicated the population would not reach its stable stage distribution anytime soon. In the absence of deer browsing, the long-term growth rate would improve to between -3.46% and -1.61% per year. A moderate drought during the study could account for the negative population growth rate, but deer browsing accelerates the rate of decline. Population growth is most sensitive to the proportion of plants remaining in the nonflowering stage, and deer browsing reduces this proportion. Browsing damage was relatively low in this study (5.4% of stems in 1998, 11.5% in 1999) compared to another study of browsing impacts on T. grandiflorum, indicating deer could have far more severe demographic consequences in populations subject to higher levels of browsing. 
23267466|The river valleys in Southwest China are characterized by a dryhot climate and relatively rich soils, and host valley-type savannas that are dominated by deciduous species. However, little is known about the ecological adaptations of Chinese savanna plants to the local environments. We hypothesize that Chinese savanna species mainly possess a drought-avoiding strategy by having a deciduous leaf habit and have productive leaf traits. To test this hypothesis, we measured 26 anatomical, morphological, physiological, and chemical traits for 33 woody species from a valley savanna in Southwest China and compared them with the literature data of other dry and wet tropical tree species and a global dataset. We found that Chinese savanna species showed drought avoidance adaptations and exhibited productive leaf traits, such as thin and dense leaves with high ratio of palisade to spongy mesophyll, leaf nutrient concentrations and photosynthetic capacity. Correlations of photosynthetic capacity with N, P, and stomatal conductance across Chinese savanna species were consistent with global patterns reported for seed plants. However, the Chinese savanna species had consistently greater carbon gain at a given specific leaf area, N, P, and stomatal conductance, suggesting higher nutrient- and intrinsic water use efficiencies. These results suggest that paradoxically, Chinese savanna species are adapted to the stressful dryhot valley habitat by having productive leaves.
40540372|Dominant plant species, or foundation species, are recognized to have a disproportionate control over resources in ecosystems, but few studies have evaluated their relationship to exotic invasions. Loss of foundation species could increase resource availability to the benefit of exotic plants, and could thereby facilitate invasion. The success of exotic plant invasions in sagebrush steppe was hypothesized to benefit from increased available soil water following removal of sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata), a foundation species. We examined the effects of sagebrush removal, with and without the extra soil water made available by exclusion of sagebrush, on abundance of exotic and native plants in the shrub steppe of southern Idaho, USA. We compared plant responses in three treatments: undisturbed sagebrush steppe; sagebrush removed; and sagebrush removed plus plots covered with "rainout" shelters that blocked winter-spring recharge of soil water. The third treatment allowed us to examine effects of sagebrush removal alone, without the associated increase in deep-soil water that is expected to accompany removal of sagebrush. Overall, exotic herbs (the grass Bromus tectorum and four forbs) were 34 times more abundant in shrubremoval and 2 times more abundant in shrubremoval + rainout-shelter treatments than in the control treatment, where sagebrush was undisturbed. Conversely, native forbs were only about half as abundant in shrub removal compared to control plots. These results indicate that removal of sagebrush facilitates invasion of exotic plants, and that increased soil water is one of the causes. Our findings suggest that sagebrush plays an important role in reducing invasions by exotic plants and maintaining native plant communities, in the cold desert we evaluated.
20050704|Grazing control has been reported to be effective for the control of desertification in semi-arid regions. However, economic reasons often make complete inhibition of grazing (complete exclosure) difficult to carry out. Grazing control has been applied to the Kerqin Sandy Lands, Inner Mongolia, China, by means of seasonal exclosure, whereby grazing is allowed from November to April. The harvesting of hay is also allowed once during September - October. The aim of the reported study was to evaluate the effectiveness of this seasonal exclosure on vegetation restoration. Species compositional data were obtained from 356 quadrats and ordinated by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA). Ordination indicated that landform was the most important factor influencing the species composition of the vegetation. Regardless of landform and type of grazing control, however, vegetation coverage, vegetation height and species richness were higher at sites where grazing had been controlled, than at sites lacking any control. Perennial species were dominant at the former while annual species were dominant at the latter. Both shrub and tree species were quite rare at the sites where seasonal exclosure had been carried out. It is concluded that seasonal exclosure is sufficient to restore and maintain grassland vegetation in and around the study area. When shrubby or tree vegetation is needed for reasons such as fixing sands or preventing sand dune remobilization, complete exclosure is recommended.
40305453|In this study, we built up a database of 633 species (48 families, 205 genera) from an alpine meadow on the eastern Qinghai-Tibet plateau. Our objective was to assess the effects of phylogenetic and life-history (life form, perenniality, seed size, dispersal strategy and period) background on the community-wide germination strategies. We found that the seeds of shrubs, perennials, and well-dispersed plants, and the smaller seeds germinated more and comparatively earlier. In one-way ANOVAs, phylogenetic groups explained 12% of the variance in GT (mean germination time for all seeds germinated of each species); life-history attributes, such as seed size, dispersal strategy, perenniality and life form explained 10%, 7%, 5%, and 1% respectively, and dispersal period had no significant effect on GT. Multifactorial ANOVAs revealed that the three major factors contributing to differences in GT were phylogenetic relatedness, seed size and dispersal strategy (explained 4%, 5% and 4% of the interspecific variation independently, respectively). Thus, seeds germination strategies were significantly correlated with phylogenetic and life-history relatedness. In addition, phylogenetic relatedness had close associations and interactions with seed size and dispersal strategy. Then, we think phylogeny and life-history attributes could not be considered mutual exclusively. Seed germination, like any other trait, is shaped by the natural history of the species and by the evolutionary history of the lineage. And a large percentage of the variance remained unexplained by our model, which suggested important selective factors or parameters may have been left out of this analysis.
20050905|At two different sites in northern Germany, the vertical distribution patterns of roots with diameters of up to 10 mm were investigated with the trench profile wall technique beneath mature trees of Quercus petraea (Matt.) Liebl. growing on clayey (cambi-stagnic gleysol) or sandy soil (dystric cambisol). The rooting patterns were related to soil bulk density, maximum plant-available soil water and soil chemistry, and were compared with the rooting pattern of Q. petraea growing on a silty soil on limestone (luvisol) and with that of Q. robur L. growing on clayey loam (stagnic cambisol). All three Q. petraea sites differed in their vertical rooting pattern, as was indicated by significant differences in the parameter  which was calculated from the cumulative root fraction (Y) for the cumulative rooting depth (d; Y =
40305790|Clonal understory trees develop into patches of interconnected and genetically identical ramets that have the potential to persist for decades or centuries. These patches develop beneath forest canopies that are structurally heterogeneous in space and time. Canopy heterogeneity, in turn, is responsible for the highly variable understory light environment that is typically associated with deciduous forests. We investigated what aspects of patch structure (density, size structure, and reproductive frequency of ramets) of the clonal understory tree, Asimina triloba, were correlated with forest canopy conditions. Specifically, we compared A. triloba patches located beneath closed canopies and canopy gaps. We also conducted a three-year demographic study of individual ramets within patches distributed across a light gradient. The closed canopy-gap comparison demonstrated that the patches of A. triloba had a higher frequency of large and flowering ramets in gaps compared to closed-canopy stands, but total ramet density was lower in gaps than in closed canopy stands. In the demographic study, individual ramet growth was positively correlated with light availability, although the pattern was not consistent for all years. Neither ramet recruitment nor mortality was correlated with light conditions. Our results indicate that the structure of A. triloba patches was influenced by canopy condition, but does not necessarily depend on the responses of ramets to current light conditions. The lack of differences in ramet recruitment and mortality under varying canopy conditions is likely to be a primary reason for the long-term expansion and persistence of the patches. The primary benefit of a positive growth response to increasing light is the transition of relatively small ramets into flowering ramets within a short period of time.
20051113|Shortgrass steppe rangeland near Nunn, Colorado, USA, has been lightly, moderately, or heavily grazed by cattle, or protected from grazing in exclosures, for 55 years. Plant species biodiversity and evenness were greatest in lightly- and moderately-grazed pastures. Both pastures were dominated by the warm-season shortgrass Bouteloua gracilis, but the cool-season midgrasses Pascopyrum smithii and Stipa comata contributed significantly to biomass production on the lightly-grazed pasture, as they did in the exclosures. Diversity was least in the exclosures, which were strongly dominated by the cactus Opuntia polyacantha. Buchlo dactyloides, another warm-season shortgrass, and Bouteloua gracilis were co-dominants under heavy grazing, and diversity was intermediate. Plant community structure and diversity were controlled by selective grazing by cattle and soil disturbance by cattle and rodents. Shortgrass steppe moderately or heavily grazed by cattle was similar to and probably as sustainable as steppe grazed for millenia by bison and other wild ungulates.
23267463|Reduced-impact logging (RIL) is known to be beneficial in biodiversity conservation, but its effects on tree diversity remain unknown. Pattern of tree diversity following disturbance usually varies with spatial scale of sampling (i.e., plot size). We examined the impacts of RIL on species richness and community composition of tree species at different spatial scales, and the scale (plot size) dependency of the two metrics; species richness versus community similarity. One 2-ha and three to four 0.2-ha plots were established in each of primary, RIL, and conventionally logged (CL) forest in Sabah, Malaysia. Species richness (the number of species per unit number of stems) was higher in the RIL than in the CL forest at both scales. The relationship between species richness and logging intensity varied with plot size. Species richness was greater in the RIL than in the primary forest at the 2-ha scale, while it was similar between the two forests at 0.2-ha scale. Similarly, species richness in the CL forest demonstrated a greater value at the 2-ha scale than at the 0.2-ha scale. Greater species richness in the two logged forests at the 2-ha scale is attributable to a greater probability of encountering the species-rich, small patches that are distributed heterogeneously. Community composition of the RIL forest more resembled that of the primary forest than that of the CL forest, regardless of plot size. Accordingly, species richness is a scale-dependent metric, while community similarity is a more robust metric to indicate the response of tree assemblage to anthropogenic disturbance.
41508819|Niche differentiation with respect to habitat has been hypothesized to shape patterns of diversity and species distributions in plant communities. African forests have been reported to be relatively less diverse compared to highly diversed regions of the Amazonian or Southeast Asian forests, and might be expected to have less niche differentiation. We examined patterns of structural and floristic differences among five topographically defined habitats for 494 species with stems 1 cm dbh in a 50-ha plot in Korup National Park, Cameroon. In addition, we tested for specieshabitat associations for 272 species (with more than 50 individuals in the plot) using Torus translation randomization tests. Tree density and basal area were lowest in areas with negative convexity, which contained streams or were inundated during rainy periods and highest in moist well-drained habitats. Species composition and diversity varied along the topographical gradient from low flat to ridge top habitats. The low depression and low flat habitats were characterized by high diversity and similar species composition, relative to slopes, high gullies and ridge tops. Sixty-three percent of the species evaluated showed significant positive associations with at least one of the five habitat types. The majority of associations were with low depressions (75 species) and the fewest with ridge tops (8 species). The large number of specieshabitat associations and the pronounced contrast between low (valley) and elevated (ridgetop) habitats in the Korup plot shows that niche differentiation with respect to edaphic variables (e.g., soil moisture, nutrients) contributes to local scale tree species distributions and to the maintenance of diversity in African forests.
23267388|There is an increasing interest in how genetic diversity may correlate with and influence community and ecosystem properties. Genetic diversity can be defined in multiple ways, and currently lacking in ecology is a consensus on how to measure genetic diversity. Here, we examine two broad classes of genetic diversity: genotype-based and genome-based measures. Genotype-based measures, such as genotypic richness, are more commonly used in ecological studies, and often it is assumed that as genotypic diversity increases, genomic diversity (the number of genetic polymorphisms and/or genomic dissimilarity among individuals) also increases. However, this assumption is rarely assessed. We tested this assumption by investigating correlations between genotype- and genome-based measures of diversity using two plant population genetic datasets: one observational with data collected at Konza Prairie, KS, and the other based on simulated populations with five levels of genotypic richness, a typical design of genetic diversity experiments. We found conflicting results for both datasets; we found a mismatch between genotypic and genomic diversity measures for the field data, but not the simulated data. Last, we tested the consequences of this mismatch and found that correlations between genetic diversity and community/ecosystem properties depended on metric used. Ultimately, we argue that genome-based measures should be included in future studies alongside genotypic-based measures because they capture a greater spectrum of genetic differences among individuals.
20146587| The quantification of species along environmental gradients has long been the subject of study regarding natural plant communities and, more recently, ecosystems disturbed by anthropogenic emissions of eutrophying and acidifying substances. We studied 527 sites in southern Swedish deciduous forests divided into two regions, with mean nitrogen depositions of 17 and 9 kg ha y. The higher deposition in the more exposed region has resulted in higher nitrogen mineralisation and nitrification rates. The objective was to identify nitrogen indicators, which we defined as species with a skewed distribution in relation to the net potential nitrogen mineralisation in the soil. Soil pH was introduced as a co-variable as it may relate to other factors limiting plant growth and survival in these ecosystems. We tested the distribution of the net potential mineralised ammonium (
23267447|Despite the detrimental impacts of invasive plants on native biodiversity, ecosystem function, and management cost, few studies have focused on the long-term persistence of invaders. Here, we use a unique, long-term dataset to examine the recovery of northern rough fescue prairie communities, 41 years after the removal of livestock from Riding Mountain National Park, Manitoba, Canada. Our 1973 data suggest that summer grazing of plains' rough fescue (Festuca hallii (Vasey) Piper) leads to its displacement from the plant community and increased dominance by exotic invaders. After 41 years of recovery time, historic grazing intensity remained an excellent predictor of community structure and composition. Areas classified as heavily grazed in 1973 remained characterized by exotic grasses and had significantly lower richness and diversity. While some exotic invaders persisted despite 41 years of community recovery, others were ephemeral. For example, both Poa pratensis (L.) and Bromus inermis (Leyss.) persisted, increasing in abundance across all classes of grazing intensity, suggesting that their control requires active restoration of the invaded areas. In contrast, passive restoration may be possible for a subset of ephemeral exotic species such as Taraxacum officinale, which had virtually disappeared from invaded prairies by 2010. Our long-term data provide a rare perspective into the long-term dynamics of plant invasions. Based on our findings, conservation managers will need to consider the dichotomy between persistent and ephemeral invaders and their impact on the recovery of northern prairie communities as they focus their restoration efforts against the mounting impacts of exotic plant invaders.
20146857| Fossil wood is both abundant and ubiquitous through geological time and space. During growth the parent plant was directly influenced by the biotic and abiotic (including climatic-) factors in the surrounding environment. The climate affects wood production in a number of ways and it is the resulting physiognomic and chemical characters that can help retrodict palaeoclimate. Physiognomic characters include those morphological and anatomical characters that in turn have enabled the use of wood characters, tree ring characters and statistical parameters (Mean Sensitivity) to determine seasonality, length and favourability of growing season, growth rates and forest productivity. Potential chemical characters discussed include (i) the preservation of wood-derived compounds (e.g. guaiacyl, syringyl p-hydroxyphenyl and resins); (ii) degree of lignin degradation to determine climate induced environmental changes; and (iii) stable isotopes (D, C and O) to help determine aspects of past climates as derived from environmental changes. The feasibility and methodology of these characters, in both angiosperm and conifer wood, are reviewed in order to establish certain safe guards, or prerequisites, such that interpretations of palaeoclimate can be as unbiased, and thus as reliable, as possible. 
20051097|Incubation experiments demonstrated a differential sensitivity to natural UV-radiation among the dominant phytoplankton species from three Arctic lakes, situated near Ny-lesund, Spitsbergen (79 N). The growth of small chlorophytes, diatoms and picocyanobacteria from two oligotrophic lakes was inhibited primarily by the shorter wavelength UV components, while the growth of the larger colony-forming species (cyanobacteria, Planktothrix sp., Woronichinia sp. and the chrysophyte, Uroglena americana Calkins) apparently was stimulated. These colonies (not easily eaten by daphnids) dominated at the end of the experiment in those treatments where the short wavelength UV components were not excluded. For the two oligotrophic localities, 70 and 61%, respectively, of total phytoplankton biovolume were edible in the treatments excluding short wavelength UV, compared to only 13 and 19%, respectively, in the treatments including such radiation. For the third, more productive and less transparent lake, the percentage of edible species in the treatments with and without short wavelength UV radiation did not differ (ca. 75% for both treatments).
20146428|We compared the general ecology and population profiles of Jatropha standleyi and J. chamelensis, two ecologically similar, dioecious forest trees in order to illuminate why they differ in range size, an important measure of relative commonness and rarity. Jatropha standleyi is widespread throughout the tropical deciduous forest in Mexico and the endangered J. chamelensis is restricted to a small region on the Pacific coast of Mexico. Using data collected over the same time period from a site central to the distributions of both species, we found significant differences in population size distributions and seedling mortality, but no discernible differences in seedling or adult growth rates, local abundance or local distribution. The observed difference in relative rarity could be explained by a number of hypotheses depending on whether the populations are at a stable equilibrium or not. The high ratio of pre-reproductive individuals may indicate a growing, rather than stable, population for J. chamelensis. Jatropha standleyi is more widespread and has a significantly lower ratio of pre-reproductive to mature individuals. Alternatively, both populations may be at equilibrium with J. chamelensis restricted to its limited range by large-scale environmental constraints or niche differences not elucidated in this study. In either case however, the greater and less variable seed output of the J. standleyi population will also mean a greater number of rare long-distance dispersal events and a better chance of establishing a persistent remote population for J. standleyi than for J. chamelensis. The dioecy to be found in both these species would exacerbate the limiting effects of low seed production on the ability of a species to 'travel' successfully. A more extensive field investigation of mortality and factors contributing to mortality in sub-canopy and pre-reproductive individuals would allow more light to be shed on relative population processes in these species.
20050514|Long-term vegetation changes in permanent plots along two transects from the low to the high salt marsh at the Boschplaat on Terschelling between 1953 and 1990, were analysed in relation to sedimentation and flooding. In both transects, the number of plant species decreased between 1953 and 1990. In lower parts of the two transects the dominant plant species of the vegetation changed from Puccinellia maritima in 1953/54 to Limonium vulgare in 1980 to Atriplex portulacoides in 1990. The increase in A. portulacoides between 1980 and 1990 coincided with an increase in the thickness of the silt layer, caused by a sedimentation rate of about 5 mm per year. This sedimentation led to an increase in elevation but not to large changes in flooding frequency between 1953 and 1990, probably due to a sea level rise during the same period. In the higher parts of the salt-marsh transects Elymus athericus strongly increased and this species became dominant in 1980 and 1990. In these parts of the salt marsh, a small increase in elevation, in thickness of the silt layer, and in flooding frequency occurred between 1953 and 1990. The described changes in vegetation are discussed in terms of general succession of salt-marsh vegetation in relation to flooding and sedimentation.
20050707|Photoinhibition of photosynthesis, defined as reversible decrease in the effective photosynthetic quantum yield, was measured in the Mediterranean red alga, Peyssonnelia squamata, using pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) chlorophyll fluorescence and oxygen production on site. This alga is adapted to very low fluence rates of solar radiation and is easily inhibited by exposure to excessive radiation. At high solar angles its photosynthetic capacity is impaired even in its natural habitat, in the protective shade of overhanging rocks. Oxygen production was maximal at 5 m depth and decreased to almost zero at the surface. When exposed at the surface oxygen production ceased within 16 min. The optimal photosynthetic quantum yield, defined as
20051348|Although there have been numerous studies of California upland oak regeneration and growth there has been no research investigating oak sapling growth in riparian environments. This study looks at the growth response of young valley oak (Quercus lobata Nee), a dominant late successional riparian species in California, across environmental variation on a floodplain. Growth was measured over the course of three years at four different sites. The sites were chosen to represent the range of successional stages and surface age. Growth was significantly higher on younger, unforested sites. There was no difference in growth rate in the two forested sites (early successional cottonwood willow forest and late successional mature oak forest). Herbivory was highest in the cottonwood willow forest, where density of young oaks was also highest. The impact of flooding was measured on the youngest floodplain surface, an open floodplain restoration site where acorns were planted the year our study began. There was a significant negative impact of flooding on sapling growth in all but the first year of growth. Taken together these results suggest that existing forest trees and flooding both inhibit the growth of valley oaks on the floodplain, and that restoration in open sites may be more successful than restoration under an existing canopy.
20050794|Heathlands in Brittany are subject to recurrent summer burning. Recolonisation after large fires begins with bryophytes, but species composition during succession may be altered by colonies of Polytrichum commune Hedw. which appears to be able to prevent reestablishment of the typical heathland formation. Three complementary levels of investigation were adopted in attempting to understand how P. commune, manages to persist and succeed in space open to rapid saturation. Analysis at the level of the local plant community, showed radical changes in the distribution and composition of the herbaceous and muscinal layers over two years. Between May 1992 and May 1994, P. commune cover increased from 13% to 77% accompanied by an appreciable decrease in other pioneer species. We compared individual colony growth of P. commune with that of Polytrichum piliferum, another pioneer moss. In both species, horizontal and vertical growth occurred in spring and autumn. During 1995, P. commune colony diameter had increased by a factor of 4.0 compared with 3.6 for P. piliferum. Over the same interval, colony height increased by a factor of 1.3 for P. commune compared with 1.8 for P. piliferum. Analysis at the level of the module showed that 79% of experimentally cultured stems produced branches, 25% producing a single branch, 32% two branches, and 25% 4 to 7 branches. The lower the location of new branches on culture stems, the longer their leafed section and the greater their overall length. These new branches were morphologically and functionally new ramets. These observations on P. commune conform to the inhibition model of community succession (Connell & Slatyer 1977). Successional patterns recorded in the present study could be interpreted in terms of differences in species colony growth ability. Dense colony growth would allow a species to saturate one of the more important ecosystem compartment. Polytric capacity to grow simultaneously and efficiently in the few centimetres in and above the soil surface could prevent seedling establishment and decrease fitness of coexisting Poaceae.
20146994|Herbivores are pervasive, yet their effects on plant fecundity are often variable. One potential source of variation in herbivore impacts results from differing feeding modes of herbivores. We examined the relative importance of inflorescence-feeding insects versus large ungulates in affecting the fecundity of Balsamorhiza sagittata (Asteraceae), a dominant native perennial forb in western Montana, USA. We quantified these effects across four sites that varied in elevation to determine how consistent herbivore impacts were across these divergent sites. Insect herbivores were present in flower heads at all sites but they significantly depressed plant fecundity at two of the four sites. At the two sites where herbivore suppression had significant effects, this treatment let to 1.6 and 3.4-fold increases in seed production, respectively. In contrast, across all sites ungulates had minimal impacts on balsamroot flower and seed production. Seed addition experiments revealed that at some sites and in some years B. sagittata is seed-limited, as there was a positive relationship between seed input and seedling recruitment. Thus, reductions in seed production from heavy insect herbivory may limit balsamroot recruitment in some locations. Overall, results show that inconspicuous insects have stronger effects on balsamroot fecundity than do mammalian herbivores, but the magnitude of negative impacts at both the individual and population-level vary by site.
20051354|This paper describes the classification and ordination of Sonoran Desert vegetation using systematically collected data from the US Army Yuma Proving Ground (USYPG). Two classifications were created, one based upon relative plant cover derived from 100 m line transect data and one based upon relative plant density derived from 6 m  100 m belt transect data, with the belt transect being a lateral extension of the line transect. Both cluster analysis using Ward's Method and TWINSPAN were used for classifying the data while Principal Component Analysis, Correspondence Analysis, Detrended Correspondence Analysis, and Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling were used as ordination methods. Cluster analysis was superior to TWINSPAN in creating logical classifications comparable to published descriptions of vegetation communities found in the Lower Colorado Subdivision of the Sonoran Desert. Together, the ordination methods served to accentuate different aspects of the data including main gradients of species composition, in particular a gradient separating plots with riparian-affinities from the main data set, a Larrea tridentata-Ambrosia dumosa gradient, and a gradient separating Encelia farinosa from the main data set. The main difference between the relative cover and relative density classifications was that the former under-represented cacti such as Opuntia bigelovii and the latter under-represented such as Parkinsonia microphylla and Olneya tesota. The classification methodology used in this study is useful for evaluating resource sampling strategies on U.S. Army bases in sparsely vegetated areas and the classifications could be used as a baseline for monitoring changes in vegetation communities.
41686810|Hermaphrodite flowers usually possess floral traits to avoid the negative effects derived from inbreeding depression and/or self-interference between pollen export and reception, both acting as the main selective pressures on those floral traits. The avoidance of self-interference is widely accepted as the primary force promoting the separation between sexes within the flowers in time (dichogamy) and/or space (herkogamy) for self-incompatible species, which are already protected from the negative effects of inbreeding depression by the incompatibility system. Different degrees of incompatibility, herkogamy, and dichogamy have been reported for the genus Narcissus. However, the only mechanism for the separation of sexes reported up to date for Narcissus cyclamineus is herkogamy, while the presence of dichogamy and the type of incompatibility in this species remain uncertain. In this study, we analyze the patterns of sexual reproduction in N. cyclamineus to ascertain whether there is any selective pressure favouring sexual segregation or its maintenance and their mechanisms. N. cyclamineus is self-incompatible and dichogamy can be rejected for this species. Even though the species is self-incompatible, when crosspollination is preceded by self-pollination the number of ovules available for legitimate crosses is diminished (ovule discounting). Pollinators are scarce during the flowering period, resulting in pollen limitation. It is suggested that both the scarcity of pollinators and ovule discounting may be acting synergically to promote herkogamy or its maintenance in this species.
23267483|Many plant communities are recruitment limited, which may occur because there are either too few seeds to fill available microsites, too few available microsites, or both. In a recruitment-limited, Minnesota, USA old field, we tested among these alternatives in a three-phase study. In phase 1, we estimated the production of late-successional forb and C4 grass seeds. In phase 2, we experimentally modified field establishment conditions with rainfall amendment, adult plant thinning, litter reduction, and small mammal exclusion. We then measured recruitment. On average, of the nearly 2,600 seeds produced m -2 , only 164 seeds m -2 were present and living after overwintering, as measured by field and greenhouse germination. Furthermore, on average, only 9 of those 164 seeds m -2 germinated in the field, even under the relaxed establishment conditions of our four experimental treatments. Although adults of C4 grasses dominate the field, surprisingly few C4 grass seedlings germinated. To understand why, in phase 3, we added seed of the three dominant C4 grasses into the same plots the following year. Their ability to recruit into control plots compared with treated plots was relatively lower than for the ambiently recruited forbs from phase 2, suggesting that the competitively dominant C4 grasses have greater difficulty establishing in the extant community. Of the seeds that did germinate in the field in phases 2 and 3, all four experimental treatments significantly improved at least one stage of establishment, with the rainfall amendment having the greatest overall effect across species. In total, our results suggest that seed limitation was exacerbated by microsite limitation via multiple mechanisms.
20050471|The relationship between changes in soil nutrient characteristics and fynbos community boundaries was investigated near Cape Agulhas, South Africa. Soil characteristics relating to total nutrient content (pH, total N and total P, organic carbon, and various cations) were assessed at sites along three transects crossing the boundaries between five plant communities. Dynamics of available N and P in soils of three communities were studied in the field over one year, using ion-exchange resins. There was a wide range in the degree of change in soil nutrient content across different community boundaries. The characteristics that varied most were pH, total N, Ca and total P. Differences in available nutrients among soils indicated that the communities in this landscape were associated with a mosaic of N and P availability. It is proposed that spatial variation in soil nutrient availability rather than total soil nutrient contents may be important in explaining landscape-level species distributions and community composition in nutrient-poor mediterranean-climate ecosystems.
40606966|The distribution of plants is associated with their different patterns of response to their environment. Mediterranean plants have evolved a number of morphological and physiological adaptations that determine their ability to survive and grow, being an effective water uptake and use important factors for drought resistance. In this article, we evaluated interspecific differences in morphology, biomass allocation, and architectural traits and their relationship with water use strategies in seedlings of seven co-occurring Mediterranean species (Anthyllis cytisoides L., Genista scorpius L. DC., Myrtus communis L., Pistacia lentiscus L., Rosmarinus officinalis L., Spartium junceum L. and Ulex parviflorus Pourr.). The results showed that morphological root features vary among species and they are significantly correlated with root hydraulic conductance and leaf gas exchange variables. Species with high specific root length (SRL) showed a low hydraulic conductance per root length (K RRL ) but high specific hydraulic conductance (K As ). M. communis and P. lentiscus showed the most contrasting water use patterns with respect to the other species studied. The results are not affected when considering phylogenetic relatedness. Thus, the variability observed in root hydraulic properties and leaf gas exchange suggests important mechanisms for understanding species coexistence in water-limited ecosystems.
41508713|There is increasing evidence that landscape vegetation patterns near species' range limits are associated with positive biotic interactions, such as in the alpine-treeline ecotone. In the northern Rocky Mountains, whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) is considered an early-successional species, able to establish in exposed microsites, while late-successional species such as Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) are more dependent on neighboring vegetation to facilitate establishment. We compared ecophysiological traits associated with carbon balance of newly germinated seedlings of whitebark pine and Engelmann spruce along an herb cover gradient to (1) infer which ecophysiological properties explain the establishment success of seedlings, and (2) to assess differences in establishment patterns with respect to distance from neighboring vegetation. We measured survival over 2 years, and concurrently measured gas exchange and water relations (photosynthesis, respiration, and transpiration), morphology [specific leaf area (SLA)], and biochemistry [chlorophyll fluorescence (F v /F m ) and nonstructural carbohydrates]. Both species initially established in the most exposed microsites away from vegetation during their first growing season, but only pine persisted in exposed microsites to the end of the second growing season. Pine exhibited phenotypic traits to increase stress tolerance (e.g., higher soluble sugar concentrations, lower SLA) and improve carbon balance (e.g., greater water use efficiency, lower respiration, higher F v /F m ) compared to spruce in exposed sites, but had lower carbon balance under herb cover. Superior establishment success of pine in exposed microsites at treeline could thus be attributed to a suite of intrinsic physiological advantages that are apparent at the earliest stage of development.
40305449|Cornus florida is a common understory species in many hardwood forests in eastern North America. It plays an important role in nutrient cycling and is an important food resource for many vertebrate species, especially migratory birds. We used data collected over a 16-year period to examine population dynamics of a tagged population of C. florida in a 6.4 ha area in the context of change in the protected Quercus-Carya forest of the Ross Biological Reserve, Indiana. We examined the hypothesis that forest dynamics result from interactions between long-term ecological succession and pathogens. The C. florida population at the Ross Reserve declined by 50% between 1983 and 2000, with a survivorship of 24%. Analysis of 40 years of forest survey data showed that Quercus and Carya populations declined in importance, while Acer saccharum increased dramatically. This change in forest structure is consistent with successional changes occurring throughout the Mid- west and can be attributed to suppression of disturbance. Cornus florida declined more sharply where A. saccharum increased. From 1983 to 1999, C. florida were less likely to survive if they were within 5 m of a A. saccharum. Light measurements showed that A. saccharum abundance correlated negatively with light available to C florida, suggesting that increased shading by A. saccharum contributed to C. florida decline. The fungus, Discula destructiva causes the disease dogwood anthracnose that is associated with widespread decline of C. florida in the eastern United States. Tests for this pathogen in our study area were mostly negative. Other tests revealed that Armillaria root rot infected most C. florida, but this disease seemed to be a secondary effect of shading by A. saccharum. These results suggest that the lack of fire and other anthropogenic disturbances has resulted in an accelerated shift in dominance from Quercus and Carya to A. saccharum in the main canopy, and this shift, in turn, has resulted in increased shading of C. florida and its decline in previously more open Midwestern forests.
40305684|Light acclimatisation capabilities of Elodea nuttallii at nearly ambient DIC conditions were investigated by determining growth characteristics, main photosynthetic parameters and pigmentation of plants incubated at 5 different irradiances (10-146 | imol photons m s). Positive net growth was observed under all light treatments tested. Maximum ratio root versus shoot (r: s) of 1.86 was achieved at medium irradiances (72-94 jimol photons m s), whereas at low (10 mol photons m s) and high irradiances (146 mol photons m s) r: s was significantly lower (0.39 and 1.05, respectively). With respect to main photosynthetic parameters, an increase of light compensation points
24553689|Variation in seasonal sprouting pattern from roots and rhizomes of perennial herbaceous plants influence the success of plant proliferation ability, invasiveness and escape from weed control measures. The latter often rely on methods, which repeatedly fragment the underground system, thereby trigger adventitious and axillary buds to sprout, and consequently reduce the amount of stored energy. If carried out at times when no re-growth occurs, treatments will have little effect on weed populations, but cost much in terms of labour and energy. The purpose of this experiment was to determine the seasonal variation in bud sprouting capacity after fragmentation. Five troublesome perennial weed species, collected in northern and southern Sweden, were grown outdoors in Uppsala, Sweden (N 5949, E 1739), from May 2009 to January 2010. Cut root and rhizome fragments, taken at two weeks intervals from July to January, were used to evaluate bud sprouting capacity, which was statistically analyzed using generalized additive models. In Elytrigia repens from southern Sweden and Sonchus arvensis sprouting capacity was significantly impaired during a period from September to November. In Equisetum arvense and Tussilago farfara sprouting was low between July and November where after it increased. In contrast, Cirsium arvense and E. repens from northern Sweden sprouted readily throughout the period. Except for E. repens, a model by populations was significantly better than one based on latitudinal origin. The result suggests a species-specific timing of treatments in weed management, avoiding the non-effective autumn period for E. arvense, S. arvensis and T. farfara, and in some cases in E. repens.
20146401|Path analysis was used to evaluate a group of variables related to fruit production in the tropical tree Ipomoea wolcottiana (Convolvulaceae). The variables were tree size (trunk diameter), available phosphorus in the soil, floral phenotypic sex expression (i.e. gynoecium biomass allocation), flower production, fruits initiated, and length of the corolla and diameter of its opening. The path model explained 79.9% of the total variation, and the production of mature fruits was related in large part by the number of fruits initiated and by phenotypic sex expression. In turn, fruits initiated were related to corolla tube diameter and to a lesser extent to corolla tube length. The model could explain a low percentage of the variation (18.5%) of the number of fruits initiated, but once a fruit was initiated it had a high probability of maturing. Phenotypic sex expression related negatively to the number of flowers produced and positively, to almost the same degree, to available phosphorus in the soil. Tree size had a positive effect on flower production but a negligible effect on fruits initiated and matured. Soil phosphorus affected positively, although weakly all variables. The relationships between tree size, number of flowers and phenotypic sex expression suggested that abundant flowering in this species functions more for pollen donation than its reception.
20050961|This paper analyzed the vegetation data obtained from a field survey conducted in the East Side of Helan Mountain, China, to reveal the features of mountainous vegetation growing in a transitional zone between the steppe and desert regions. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was applied to the process of analysis, to clarify the spatial variation of floristic composition of the vegetation in the lower mountain range. The preliminary results obtained from the analysis are: (1) There are 53 vegetation formations existing in the area, following the China's criteria of vegetation classification system. (2) Those vegetation types compose a vertical vegetation spectrum in the East Side of Helan Mountain due to the climatic gradient caused by elevation variation. The spectrum consists of 4 zones. They are, from the foot up to the peak in turn, mountain steppe zone, mountain open forest and steppe zone, mountain coniferous forest zone, and alpine bush and meadow zone. The mountain coniferous forest zone can be further divided into two subzones: Pine forest subzone and Spruce forest subzone. (3) Most of the vegetation types show clear xeromorphic features due to the base zone of the vertical vegetation spectrum lying in the arid region of China. (4) The distribution of vegetation types and flora is sensitive and susceptible to the moisture condition that the vertical vegetation spectrum has quite different expressions between northern and southern exposures. (5) Floristic composition of the vegetation shows a northern temperate feature. The families that are rich in species in the area include Gramineae, Compositae, Leguminosae, Chenopodiaceae, Rosaceae and others, most of which are abundant in herbaceous species. (6) The variation of the ecological conditions from the north to the south also leads to the differentiation of vegetation and its floristic composition in the area. (7) The broad-leaved forest can not form a forest zone in the vertical vegetation spectrum. This may be a special characteristic of the spectrum sitting on a transitional zone between the steppe and desert regions.
20051351|The relationship between plant species richness and the space organization of the community at different small scales was studied. The study was based on 51 sites distributed along a belt from Central Spain to Portugal. Each site was analyzed with a transect cutting across the boundary between two neighboring patches of shrubland and grassland. Local spatial organization of vegetation was analyzed at different levels of detail and each transect was divided into successively smaller portions. The first division coincides with a physiognomic perception of the site in two patches (shrubland and grassland). The average spatial niche width of the species was used to calculate the spatial organization of the vegetation of each division in each site. The correlation between species richness and spatial organization depended on the block size under consideration. A physiognomic criterion, sectorizing the sites into patches of shrubland and grassland, determines noteworthy floristic changes but does not enable us to express satisfactorily the variability in plant richness. In order to account for this variation, other factors must be taken into account which act at a more detailed small-scale and which determine the internal variability of these patches. In the case studied, the species richness of the sites increases along with an increase in the percentage of species whose occupation of the space is relatively restricted within the site. Many of these species are, however, frequent within the whole of the territory studied. The results highlight the importance of the level of local scale at which the factors influencing occupation of the space, and consequentially, plant richness, preferentially act. This circumstance ought to be taken into consideration in strategies for the conservation of biological diversity, and based on the delimitation of protected spaces with criteria frequently linked to the physiognomy of the vegetation.
20146486|In many plant species, herbivory is a major determinant of leaf mortality and it can cause a strong reduction in productive potential. Most predation occurs on young, expanding leaves. Thus, a rapid growth of the leaves can reduce the impact of predation. Furthermore, in cold Mediterranean climates the length of the growing season is constrained to a short period in spring and early summer owing both to low winter temperatures and drought stress in early summer. Therefore, a rapid deployment of leaf area and a high photosynthetic capacity during the spring and early summer might have important positive effects on the final carbon balance of the leaf population. Relative growth rates (RGR) of leaf biomass were measured in 19 woody species typical of Central Western Spain with deciduous and evergreen habits. Highly significant differences were detected in the leaf growth rate of the different species. The differences between species, however, did not correlate either with the mean leaf life-span of each of the species or with other leaf traits such as photosynthetic capacity, specific leaf area or nitrogen content. Leaf growth rate was positively correlated with time elapsed between leaf initiation and fruit maturation, so that species with fruit dispersal in spring and early summer in general had lower leaf growth rates than species with autumn fruit shedding. This relationship shows the effects of the concurrence between vegetative and reproductive organs for nutrients and other resources. Nitrogen concentration in the leaves was very high at the time of bud break, and declined during leaf expansion owing to the dilution associated with the increase in structural components. The rate of nitrogen dilution was, thus, positively related to the leaf growth rate. Relative growth rates calculated for nitrogen mass in leaves were very low compared to the growth in total mass. This suggests that most leaf nitrogen is translocated from the plant stores to the leaf biomass before the start of leaf expansion and that the contribution of root uptake during leaf expansion is comparatively low.
20050552|California chaparral and South African fynbos are fire-prone communities dominated by species exhibiting remarkable similarities in germination response. In both regions there are a substantial number of species with germination stimulated chemically by charred wood and smoke. This type of germination behaviour has arisen independently in distantly related families and is interpreted as convergent evolution. Heat-shock is also an important germination trigger that is widespread, although in both regions it is most common in the same families. Phylogeney may play an important role in the presence of this postfire germination cue in both regions, but a much more rigorous analysis is required to show that this trait represents a single unique event in each lineage. In both regions, germination response is not randomly distributed across growth forms and there are marked regional similiarities in the type of germination behaviour associated with certain growth forms. Geophytes largely lack refractory seeds, which require fire-type cues for germination, but the presence of fire-stimulated flowering of bulbs and corms may time recruitment to subsequent postfire years. Annuals that cue germination to postfire conditions are predominantly triggered by chemicals from smoke and/or charred wood.
20050847|Results of field and glasshouse experiments on Solidago shortii, and our observations on this species over many years, were used to construct a conceptual model of the roles of succession, light, soil nutrients and disturbance on population vigor and maintenance of this federal-endangered species. As cover of woody vegetation increased at a population site between 1986 and 1992, number of flowering ramets of S. shortii significantly decreased but number of vegetative ramets remained nearly constant. Adult plants transplanted into a redcedar thicker and those shaded in a glasshouse produced many fewer flowering ramets and capitula per flowering ramet and less biomass and had higher mortality than those in the open. Seedlings/juveniles shaded in a glasshouse had significantly less dry biomass; lower RGR, NAR, leaf area and root/shoot ratio and higher LAR, SLA and LWR than nonshaded ones. In a field site and glasshouse, fertilized plants (NPK) consistently had more flowering ramets and capitula per flowering ramet than nonfertilized ones. Hierarchy of dry weight of plants grown in a glasshouse in soils derived from five types of bedrock was phosphatic limestone &gt calcareous shale &gt sandstone &gt black shale = dolomite. Flowering and biomass production in the field-fertilizer and soil-type experiments were associated closely with levels of P. Number of flowering ramets significantly increased in plants transferred from shaded to nonshaded glasshouse conditions, but no such increase occurred after opening the canopy above plants in a thicket. Both high light and high nutrient levels apparently are necessary to maintain high vigor of S. shortii. In areas subject to invasion by woody plants, periodic high intensity disturbance may be required to prevent population extirpation.
20050827|It is widely accepted that reliable ordination of ecological data requires a strong linear or ordinal relationship between the dissimilarity of sites, based on species composition, and the ecological distance between them. Certain dissimilarity measures, having the property that they take a fixed maximum value when sites have no species in common, have been shown to be strongly correlated with ecological distance. For ecological gradients of moderate length (moderate beta diversity), such measures, in conjunction with non-metric multidimensional scaling, will reliably yield successful ordinations. However, as beta diversity increases, more sites have no species in common, and such measures invariably under-estimate ecological distance for such sites. Thus ordinations of data with high species turnover (high beta diversity) may fail. Extended dissimilarities are defined using an iterative adaptation of flexible shortest path adjustment applied to the matrix of dissimilarities with fixed maximum values. By means of theoretical argument and simulations, this is shown to lead to far stronger correlations between the adjusted site dissimilarity and ecological distance for ecological gradients of greater length than previously considered. Hence ordinations of extended dissimilarities, by means of either metric or non-metric scaling techniques, are shown to outperform corresponding ordinations of unadjusted dissimilarities, with the difference increasing with increasing beta diversity.
40212902|Spatial patterns of seedling regeneration of woody Mediterranean plants are widely documented, with seedlings and juveniles growing almost exclusively under shrub and tree canopy. Neighbourhood habitat amelioration and consequent facilitative effects on recruitment have been extensively suggested as the major determinant of such spatial pattern for Mediterranean vegetation. Much less is known on recruitment patterns of perennial herbs. As herbs differ from woody plants in many relevant ecological aspects and in their life cycles, we would expect particularities in their recruitment dynamics. We analysed the spatial (regional, local and fine-scale) variation in environment (herb cover, litter depth, air temperature and irradiance) and its relationship with seedling emergence, mortality, and recruitment of the perennial herb Helleborus foetidus (Ranunculaceae) during 2 years. We conducted the study in three distant localities in south-eastern Iberian Peninsula (defining the regional scale). Local scale was defined in terms of microhabitat type based on three categories of vegetation cover (under evergreen shrubs or trees, under deciduous spiny-shrubs, and in open interspaces). Finally, fine-scale variation was defined in terms of 1 m sampling plots. Our results showed regional, local and fine-scale variations in recruitment, with the major source of variation changing across scales. Seed input was important in determining differences in recruitment both at the largest (regional) and the finest scale. Environment had minor importance in shaping differences in recruitment at these two scales. At the local scale, variation between microhabitats was mainly related to differences in seedling survival through facilitative effects (alleviation of water and irradiance stresses) of shrub and tree cover, although such facilitative effect was not consistent in all localities or years. Our study thus points to a similarity in the spatial patterns of recruitment (and in the environmental factors shaping such patterns) between Mediterranean woody plants and perennial herbs, but much more effort is needed to assess the generality of such similarity.
40305785|Chestnut blight fungus (Endothia parasitica [Murr.] P. J. And. & H. W. And.)) is a classic example of an invasive species, which severely damaged populations of its host, Castanea dentata, and had widespread and long-term impacts on eastern North American forests. Concurrently, forests were further disturbed by lumbering, which was common across the region from the mid 1800s to the early 1900s. In 1926, local infestations of chestnut blight were reported in the Coweeta Basin, Southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina. We used permanent plot inventories of the Basin (first sampled in 1934 and twice afterward in 1969-72 and 1988-93) to describe the distribution of species along a complex environmental gradient. Specifically, we asked: How does vegetation change over approximately 60 years following logging and the demise of C dentata? Does the association between vegetation and environment determine the pattern of species distributions through time? Which species replaced C. dentata across this complex environmental gradient? We used nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination and multiresponse permutation procedure for the analyses of the inventory periods. In 1934, C. dentata was the most important species in the Coweeta Basin. It was present in 98% of the plots and contributed 22% of the total density and 36% of the total basal area. Diversity increased significantly over time and was attributed to an increase in evenness of species distribution. The canopy dominant, C. dentata, was replaced by more than one species across the environmental gradient. Importance values of Quercus prinus, Acer rubrum, Cornus florida, Tsuga canadensis, and Oxydendrum arboreum increased by 2-5% across the basin following the decline of C. dentata. Tsuga canadensis increased in abundance and distribution, especially near streams across elevations. Liriodendron tulipifera replaced C. dentata in moist coves, which have low terrain shape and high organic matter content. In contrast, Q. prinus and A. rubrum were ubiquitous, much like C. dentata before the chestnut blight becoming dominant or co-dominant species across all environmental conditions.
20050477|In this study dendrochronological methods are used to investigate tree growth of several coniferous species growing on serpentine outcrops in the subalpine region. Though stands are thriving on the same parent material, almost barren sites covered with Scots pine trees (Pinus sylvestris L.) contrast sharply with adjacent dense stands composed of mixed coniferous species. To find a reasonable explanation for this vegetation pattern and to evaluate the influence of serpentine soil on radial tree growth annual variability in ring-widths was analyzed and compared between both types of stands. Tree-ring analyses show that sparse tree cover on steep slopes might be caused by environmental stress factors especially unfavourable physical soil properties such as instability and dryness. Several abrupt growth reductions followed by slow release in ring-widths indicate repeated mechanical injury to the root system due to soil erosion. On the other hand the aggravating impact of anthropogenic disturbances (tree felling) on this ecologically fragile serpentine area could be determined and dated. There was no evidence that radial tree growth of coniferous species at this site could be limited by toxic heavy metals in the soil.
40305423|Since most studies of ecosystem dynamics after disturbance require longer durations of study than the life span of most research careers, many studies rely on chronosequence approaches to substitute space for time. We tested the chronosequence approach for assessing the change in plant functional type cover and leaf area index (L) using three replicated mountain big sagebrush (Artemesia tridentata var. vaseyana (Rydb.) Boivin) dominated ecosystems in southern Wyoming. We further tested our broader inferences of mountain big sagebrush ecosystem chronosequences by assessing whether dynamics in spatial patterning of plant functional type cover and leaf area index would compromise the chronosequence approach. We hypothesized that (1) L and total cover increase with age at similar rates across replicated chronosequences, (2) spatial autocorrelation is greatest with shrub cover, and (3) spatial autocorrelation increases with age. We failed to reject all three hypotheses. Our analyses showed that mean shrub cover, total cover, and L all increased linearly with time since disturbance across all three replicated chronosequences. While neither graminoid nor forb cover was correlated with time since disturbance, graminoid cover did show an inverse relationship with shrub cover and L. Semivariogram analysis showed that spatial patterning increased with shrub cover and time since disturbance. Thus, while we cannot yet provide a process to fit the spatial patterns, the chronosequence approach for sagebrush ecosystems recovering from disturbance has survived a rigorous test because the mean changes in shrub cover, total cover, and L were replicable across three different sites.
20051061|Light filtered through the forest canopy is the most variable physical factor in tropical forests, both in space and time. Vegetation geometry, sun angle, and weather generate five light environments, which greatly differ in intensity and spectrum. Forest light spectra can directly affect photosynthesis, plant morphogenesis, visual communication, and the effectiveness of plant-animal interactions. For animals, the apparent simplicity of five light environments is complicated by different types of contrast with the optical background which greatly modify the conspicuousness of visual signals. The purpose of this paper is to describe peculiarities of light in tropical forest, and to review the effects of light intensity and especially quality on plants and animals. Ecophysiological adaptations of plants to cope with contrasting light environments operate at daily, seasonal and life time-scales. Ambient light quality acts as a signal for both animals and plants, and consequences on plant growth, colour display, and signal design are examined. An analysis of the range of spectral parameters along a deforestation gradient is presented, testing if sites with more variation in light could support more species which are light-environment specialists. It is suggested that light quality measurement may be used to estimate the structural impact of forest exploitation, and that gives us the information necessary for a functional explanation of anthropogenic effects on tropical forest diversity.
20146661|Large, infrequent natural disturbances have been proposed as a key component in determining the distribution and abundance of Nothofagus in southern Andean temperate forests. In this study, a comparison of influences of small-to-intermediate-sized natural disturbances and effects of selective logging on the establishment and growth of Nothofagus forests in south-central Chile are synthesized with the results of other forest studies to develop general hypotheses on the regeneration dynamics of southern Chilean Nothofagus alpina forests. A synthesis is given for regeneration pattern in the abundance of 18 temperate rain forests in the Andean Range, Chile. The study aimed to determine the role of life history differences in promoting coexistence of the five main tree species (N. alpina, N. dombeyi, N. pumilio, N. macrocarpa and Laurelia philippiana) in N. alpina-dominated forests. Age data reported for N. alpina, a shade mid-tolerant emergent tree in the temperate rain forests of southern Chile, indicate maximum lifespans &gt 650 years, figures unprecedented for N. alpina. In low elevation stands, N. alpina coexists with broad-leaved evergreen tree species, such as L. philippiana, L. sempervirens, Persea lingue, and in these stands an intermittent establishment of Nothofagus occurred and appeared to be most dependent on small-to-intermediate disturbances. In high-elevation stands, in contrast, Nothofagus establishment was less dependent on disturbance, regeneration being much more continuous even in the absence of canopy openings. The forests studied provide another example of the general pattern of increasing dependence of Nothofagus on disturbance towards the more productive end of the environmental gradients. As a long-lived pioneer and despite its dependence on disturbance in lowland sites, N. alpina has been subject to selection for complementary growth, adult survivorship, and mid-tolerance to shade. Thus, interspecific differences in juvenile and adult life history characteristics of N. alpina and its competitors may be sufficient to maintain its persistence in the landscape. In conclusion, this study of population structures and replacement patterns provides a comprehensive picture on our understanding of regeneration dynamics and trait differentiation in southern temperate forests by recognizing both the influences of environmental gradients (i.e., altitude) on competing species and the disturbance regimes.
20146492|Surface fire can modify spatial patterns and self-thinning in pine-oak ecosystems. Spatial pattern analyses were used to compare pattern development and interspecific spatial interactions in trees and seedlings in five Madrean pine-oak stands with different recent fire histories. Interspecific and intraspecific patterns were compared in small (&lt 15 cm dbh) and large (&lt 15 cm dbh) diameter classes of the pines (Pinus durangensis, P. teocote, and P. leiophylla) and oaks (Quercus sideroxylla, Q. crassifolia, and Q. laeta) that collectively dominated the five stands. Numbers of juvenile trees in 2.5  2.5 m subplots were correlated with cumulative distances to adult trees. Small pine and oak trees were intraspecifically clustered at all scales, irrespective of fire regime. Large pines were strongly clustered only in stands with longer fire-free intervals, and patterns of large versus small pine trees were regular or random in frequent fire stands. These patterns were consistent with fire-induced mortality of maturing trees under frequent fire. Large and small pines were segregated from small oaks at short and long distances in one stand with a 32-year fire-free interval, implying that two or more dynamic factors had produced regular patterns at different scales. Such regular spatial patterns at short distances were not seen in other stands. Therefore, there was little evidence for direct competition between oaks and pines. The results reported here are consistent with studies from other pine-oak ecosystems showing that different fire regime and site factors interact to influence stand development processes and relative dominance of pines and oaks. In some stands, the continued absence of fire could foster increasing tree densities and an intensification of local neighborhood effects, producing segregation of pine and oak species at longer distances.
40212939|Dry semideciduous and deciduous forests occur only on calcium-rich soils and occupy almost 20% of the 200 million ha of the cerrado region of central Brazil. Other savanna physiognomies of woodlands and grasslands, and gallery forests generally occur on acid soils with low calcium levels. The literature on phytosociological aspects of such cerrado physiognomies is quite abundant whereas there is very little information on deciduous forests. Also lacking is information on soil fertility and its influence on species distribution. The objective of the present study was to study the distribution of native species within a dry deciduous forest in the Araguari river valley, Uberlndia, Minas Gerais as related to soil properties. A 1-ha sampling area, with no apparent difference in physiognomy, was divided into fifty 10 m x 20 m plots arrayed in 10 x 5 grid and all trees with a minimum circumference of 15 cm at 1.30 m height were surveyed. A composite soil sample was collected from 0 to 10 cm depth in each plot and soil pH, organic C and nutrient availability were determined. Cluster analysis based on soil chemical properties showed the existence of two distinct groups of plots. Further field examinations revealed that the forest was situated in an area of transition between mica schist and basalt parent materials, without any apparent difference in the forest physiognomy. The basalt-derived soil in 23 plots had significantly higher availability of Ca (47.0 cmol(+) kg soil), Mg (2.59), and K (0.96) than the mica schist derived soil (Ca--18.4, Mg--1.29, and K--0.66) in the remaining 27 plots, though both soils would be classified as eutrophic. A total of 59 species belonging to 27 families were encountered in the area as a whole, of which 36 were common to both soils. In total, 16 species occurred exclusively on the mica schist soil and 7 on the basaltic soil. Myracrodruon urundeuva Allem. (Anacardiaceae) and Tabebuia roseo-alba (Ridl.) Sandwith (Bignoniaceae) were species with high importance values in the forest as a whole. Though there was no significant difference in the diversity index between the two soils, the importance values of these species was larger in the basalt-derived soil with higher nutrient availability.
40926884|Numerous hypotheses have been invoked to explain invasion in plant communities. Here, we use a fundamental tool from plant ecology, density series in situ, to explore whether a reasonable starting point for highly successful invasive plant species is to consider regulation (biotic effects) and limitation (environmental constraints). To explore the utility of density series to understanding invasion we present a case study using C. solstitialis, a perfect candidate since it is a prolific seed producer and invasive in many grasslands globally. Using seed addition into existing vegetation in three grasslands with densities of up to 6500 seeds per m, we found no evidence for regulation via intra or interspecific interference but large differences amongst sites. This strongly suggests that in this species limitations imposed by the environment are the only constraints. Hence, we propose that an excellent starting point for ecologists studying invasion should involve back to the basics experiments on novel species to determine whether other hypotheses need be invoked.
40212940|Related species of similar morphology can differ greatly in distribution and abundance. Elucidating reasons for such differences can contribute to an understanding of intrinsic limiting factors and the causes of rarity. We studied sympatric populations of two terrestrial lilies with contrasting distributions: Calochortus lyallii, which is geographically restricted but locally abundant, and C. macrocarpus, which is wide-spread but locally sparse. Marked plants of each species were monitored for 5 years in British Columbia, Canada. Matrix projection models were used to estimate annual and stochastic population growth rates
40540359|Distance-based methods have been a valuable tool for ecologists for decades. Indirectly, distance-based ordination and cluster analysis, in particular, have been widely practiced as they allow the visualization of a multivariate data set in a few dimensions. The explicitly distance-based Mantel test and multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM) add hypothesis testing to the toolbox. One concern for ecologists wishing to use these methods lies in deciding whether to combine data vectors into a compound multivariate dissimilarity to analyze them individually. For Euclidean distances on scaled data, the correlation of a pair of multivariate distance matrices can be calculated from the correlations between the two sets of individual distance matrices if one set is orthogonal, demonstrating a clear link between individual and compound distances. The choice between Mantel and MRM should be driven by ecological hypotheses rather than mathematical concerns. The relationship between individual and compound distance matrices also provides a means for calculating the maximum possible value of the Mantel statistic, which can be considerably less than 1 for a given analysis. These relationships are demonstrated with simulated data. Although these mathematical relationships are only strictly true for Euclidean distances when one set of variables is orthogonal, simulations show that they are approximately true for weakly correlated variables and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities.
40305774|The spatial pattern of life strategies gives us clues about what factors are important for structuring the vegetation and at which scale they work. In this study, we look at the spatial distribution of the CSR-strategies of Grime on a meso-scale (larger than 50 m x 50 m) in a temperate forest. To detect the spatial pattern of the different life forms, 79 plant species were surveyed according to a grid with 2431 cells of 50 m x 50 m. For each cell C, S and R-values were calculated and their spatial distribution was studied. The spatial patterns were then explained by available environmental factors. The different plant strategies clearly showed an aggregated pattern on a scale larger than 50 m x 50 m. This non-random and unequal distribution of the different life strategies could be explained by the factors that are under the control of the forest management, namely "distance to road" and "dominant (planted) tree species". Patches with high C-values (C-biotopes) where found under pine, 5-biotopes where found under mixed oak-beech and pure beech stands of 100 to 150 years old. R-biotopes were bound to the roads.
24553699|Invasive success of many fleshy-fruited plants has been linked to opportunistic interactions with generalist frugivores. Prunus mahaleb is a small tree, producing large quantities of little, bright black, sugary drupes that are consumed by vertebrates. It is native to the Mediterranean region but has become invasive in several countries. This study was carried out at a nature reserve including remnant mountain grasslands of high conservation value in the southern Argentine Pampas. Our aim is to reconstruct the colonization history of invading populations proposing a generalized model to describe the invasion process: colonization events result in the establishment of a founder tree followed by a lag phase until it reaches massive seed production and enables an increase in local recruitment and plant density. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed population age structures and contrasted them with those predicted using a Leslie matrix growth model. We found that matrix model predictions fit well to actual age structures. Our results reveal the existence of an 818-year lag period between the establishment of the founder tree and local effective recruitment. The end of this lag coincides with an abrupt increase in individual fruit production that may have a strong effect on bird attraction and successful seed dispersal. This lag phase represents an opportunity for preventing further spread of P. mahaleb. Early detection and rapid eradication of new invasion focuses should be targeted as a principal aim of an effective control strategy.
40212891|Browsing by livestock has been identified as an important factor preventing tree regeneration in wooded pastures. Two field experiments were performed to investigate the effects of cattle browsing on tree sapling growth in a mountainwooded pasture. Two size classes (ca. 12-17 cm and 41-59 cm) of each of 4 species ( Picea abies, Abies alba, Acer pseudoplatanus and Fagus sylvatica) were exposed to zero, low and high grazing intensities. We measured the proportion of saplings browsed and the effect of browsing on growth. A mowing treatment within the zero grazing intensity treatment showed no significant effect on sapling growth. One percent of the large saplings but 25% of the small saplings escaped browsing. Saplings were better protected when surrounded by taller vegetation. The proportion of saplings browsed was not significantly different among species although evergreen tree saplings lost a larger proportion of biomass than deciduous species when browsed. Under grazing, average current- year shoot production and total aboveground biomass of all species were significantly reduced. Browsing effects tended to be smaller at the lower grazing intensity. Because the deciduous species were least reduced in aboveground growth, especially under the low grazing intensity, we conclude that at least in short-term, deciduous species are less affected by cattle browsing.
20146398|Vegetation restoration during old-field succession was studied in an alpine Andean ecosystem (paramo). 123 plots with different fallow times (1 to 12 years) and 8 plots under natural vegetation were sampled. The results indicate that secondary succession in the paramo, like in other extreme environments, can be interpreted as an autosuccession: there are mainly changes in species relative abundance and little floristic relay (i.e. species turnover). Only a few herbaceous species, mostly introduced (e.g. Rumex acetosella), act as strict pioneers and strongly dominate the early stages. Then, they undergo a progressive decline, while native forbs (e.g. Lupinus meridanus) and grasses (e.g. Vulpia myuros) have their peak abundance in intermediate stages. The characteristic paramo life forms, sclerophilous shrubs (e.g. Baccharis prunifolia, Hypericum laricifolium) and giant rosettes (e.g. Espeletia schultzii), appear very early and gradually increase in abundance during succession, becoming dominant in the late stages and showing a dual behaviour, both as ruderal and stress tolerant species. The 1st axis of a Detrended Correspondence Analysis arranges the sites according to their fallow time. The 2nd and 3rd axes, associated with diverging pathways of regeneration, are correlated with topographic factors and physio-chemical soil characteristics. Hence, structural divergence between plots increases along succession as community composition starts to reflect the conditions of each site. We found evidence of a constant rate of succession during the first 12 years, contradicting the generally accepted hypothesis in the succession literature of a continous slow down up to the climax. Regeneration of vegetation physiognomy is relatively fast, questioning the prevailing idea of slow restoration in alpine ecosystems. However, 12 years of fallow are insufficient to attain the species richness of the natural paramo. Under the current trend of fallow length reduction observed in traditional potato cultivation in the Andes, our results raise doubts about the conservationist value of this management strategy.
40305446|Much recent attention has been focused on the invasion and dominance of annual grass species in areas thought to have been historically dominated by perennial life forms. Explanations of this phenomenon in the literature have focused on two mechanisms favoring annuals: ruderal strategy associated with disturbance, and stress escaping associated with dry sites or deserts. Here I present evidence from vegetation surveys at 50 sites across a 1,200 km band of the Iberian Peninsulaa source region for many invasive annualsshowing that relative annual versus perennial grass composition is not well correlated with degree of disturbance or average annual precipitation. However, annual dominance is strongly and significantly linked to the seasonality of precipitation, in particular the relative intensity of summer drought. Disturbance was significantly associated with annual grass dominance in Iberia, but with much less explanatory power than summer drought intensity. Slope, aspect, and soil parent material were not significantly correlated with annual versus perennial grass dominance. These results suggest that subtle differences in rainfall seasonality largely drive grass composition in herbaceous Mediterranean vegetation. Furthermore, the patterns of annual grass invasion observed in the world's other Mediterranean climate regions may be associated with similar climatic drivers.
40212941|The spatial patterns of photosynthetic characteristics and leaf physical traits of 171 plants belonging to nine life-forms or functional groups (trees, shrubs, herbs, evergreen trees, deciduous trees, C and C herbaceous plants, leguminous and non-leguminous species) and their relationships with environmental factors in seven sites, Yangling, Yongshou, Tongchuan, Fuxian, Ansai, Mizhi and Shenmu, ranging from south to north in the Loess Plateau of China were studied. The results showed that the leaf light-saturated photosynthetic rate
20051247|Arbutus unedo L. communities in the southern part of the Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal) were studied, highlighting the differences regarding their floristic composition, biological diversity and plant dynamics according to the dominant geological substratum. Firstly, this type of formation on the little-known decarbonated calcareous substrate was analysed using classification techniques. Later, they were compared to the remaining phytocoenoses in the southern part of the Iberian Peninsula using an ordination analysis. As a result, a new suballiance is proposed together with two plant associations, which will enable us to characterize the strawberry tree groves growing on carbonated substrate and those already proposed for siliceous substrata are confirmed.
23362479|Woody corridors in fragmented landscapes have been proposed as alternative habitats for forest plants, but the great variation in species-specific responses blurs the overall assessment. The aim of this study was to estimate the dispersal success of forest-dwelling plants from a stand into and along an attached woody corridor, and to explain the observed patterns from the point of view of species' dispersal traits and corridor properties. We sampled 47 forestcorridor transects in the agricultural landscapes of southeastern Estonia. Regionally common forest-dwelling species (observed in at least 10 % of seed-source forests) were classified on the basis of their ecological response profileforest-restricted species (F-type) and forest-dwelling generalists (G-type). Species richness and the proportion of F-type species decreased sharply from the seed-source forest core to the forest edge and to the first 1015 m of the corridor, while G-type species richness remained constant throughout the transect. Corridor structure had a species-specific effectF species were promoted by old (50 years) and wide (10 m) corridors, while G species were supported by young and narrow corridors with ditch-related soil disturbances. Moderate shade (canopy cover <75 %) was optimal for all forest-dwelling species. Large dispersule weight, and not seed weight, dispersal vector or Ellenberg's indicator values, was the trait that differentiated F species from G species. We conclude that most woody corridors are only dispersal stepping-stone habitats for habitat generalist species, and not for specialists. Only century old corridors can relieve the dispersal limitation of forest-restricted species.
40305763|In a greenhouse experiment, we examined the effectiveness of four native cover crops for controlling four exotic, invasive species and increasing success of four western North American grassland species. Planting the annual cover crops, annual ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia) and common sunflower (Helianthus annuus), reduced the biomass of the exotic species cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), Japanese brome (Bromus japonicus), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), and whitetop (Cardaria draba). The annual cover crops also reduced the desired species biomass in competition with the perennial exotics, but either increased or did not affect the desired species biomass in competition with the annual exotics. Planting the perennial cover crops, Canada goldenrod (Solidago canadensis) and littleleaf pussytoes (Antennaria microphylla), rarely inhibited exotic species, but did increase the desired species biomass. Field experiments are needed to test the cover crops under more ecologically relevant conditions, but our results suggested that the annual cover crops may be effective for controlling invasive annuals and for facilitating native perennials.
40305773|Understanding the ecological mechanisms that allow a species to transition from an occasional understory component to the dominant type in the forest canopy is essential for predicting future shifts in the distribution of species. We investigated this issue with regard to yew, also because mature yew trees have been reported to inhibit self-regeneration and seedling survival, prompting concerns for the long-term preservation of the species. Our objectives were (a) to quantify spatial patterns of yew (Taxus baccata L.) populations near the southern limit of the species' ecological distribution, (b) to determine the relationships between yew presence and topographic gradients, and (c) to answer the question of how yew regeneration is affected by such patterns and relationships. We analyzed three extensive yew populations (90-165 ha, including 3-12 thousand established individuals) that mostly occupy the understory of beech forests located in protected areas of the central Apennines (Italy). Overall, the realized niche of yew (either as established trees, saplings, or seedlings) followed the expected bell-shaped curve of a species response to an environmental gradient. Yew was mainly found at 1,000-1,600 m elevation on mesic exposures (north and west) and intermediate slopes (30-60%). Geostatistical analysis revealed that yew occurred in patches, as shown by variogram ranges of 40-110 m for yew tree basal area and regeneration abundance. Yew regeneration over the landscape was directly related to basal area of yew trees. At local scales (~ 10 m), presence of established trees favored regeneration in relatively less developed stands, whereas high density of mature yews suppressed regeneration. Healthy yew populations in beech forests had a minimum size of 0.5-3 ha. As yew density increased within these patches, regeneration dropped, so that yew conservation cannot be limited to presently occurring populations, despite the longevity and potential for vegetative reproduction of the species. Disturbance from grazing and wildfire was also found to impact yew survival. Long-term existence of yew in the Italian Apennines depends on maintaining and expanding old-growth beech forests that incorporate yew patches, and have a minimum continuous cover equivalent to a relatively undisturbed regime (10-50 ha).
41508812|Plant responses to herbivory are complex. In grasses, relative growth rate (RGR), seed, and vegetative reproduction, resource allocation, and architecture vary differentially and often nonlinearly with grazing intensity. High grazing tolerance may be achieved through compensatory photosynthesis and leaf growth, or through demographic mechanisms such as activation of a belowground dormant bud bank. This study assessed the relationship between grazing frequency and responses of Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem) in a tallgrass prairie, and examined the roles of tiller growth, reproduction, and bud (meristem) populations in its persistence under grazing. Genets were subjected to varying simulated grazing frequencies for a period of 2 years. Strong differential responses were observed among plant traits. RGR, biomass, and flowering showed strong nonlinear reductions in response to increasing clipping frequency, with no evidence of threshold effects. However, meristem density was unaffected, and plants maintained a large bud bank across all clipping treatments. Tiller natality decreased initially, but increased with >4 clippings, suggesting that declines in tiller RGR are partially offset by increasing tiller natality, and that variation in genet size is driven more by demography than by variation in individual tiller growth. Increased grazing frequency also resulted in differential activation of buds at different positions (emerging within vs. outside the subtending leaf sheath), explaining the shift to a more prostrate growth form observed in many caespitose grasses under persistent grazing. Thus, although this grass species lacks the capacity for compensatory foliage re-growth, the maintenance of a large dormant bud bank and the differential activation of buds in different positions contribute to its grazing tolerance and avoidance, respectively, and its long-term persistence in grazed grasslands.
41412370|Unpalatable plants can protect palatable neighbor plants from grazing pressure, but morphological evolution of a palatable species might change its interactions with unpalatable plants. We predicted that when a palatable species has locally adapted to grazing by expressing a dwarf phenotype that reduces grazer accessibility, the dwarf plants experience relatively more competitive effects than facilitative effects from large, well-defended, unpalatable species. We used a transplant experiment, in which both dwarf and large ecotypes of a palatable annual species, Persicaria longiseta, were transplanted outside and inside the canopy of an unpalatable nettle, Urtica thunbergiana, in  long-term deer grazing habitat of Nara Park, Japan. The dwarf ecotype of Persicaria has adapted to the grazing environments of the park by exhibiting inherently short shoots and small leaves, whereas the large ecotype is found in habitats with no grazing history. A previous common-garden study suggested that the phenotypic differences were genetically based and that phenotypic plasticity contributed little to the morphological difference. The large-phenotype of Persicaria experienced significantly increased morphological size, survival, and reproductive output under the Urtica canopy compared to outside the canopy, whereas these traits of the dwarf phenotype were reduced under the Urtica canopy compared to outside. These results indicate that the net effects of Urtica on Persicaria were positive for the large ecotype and negative for the dwarf ecotype. Thus, the morphological adaptation of a palatable species to avoid grazing altered its interactions with a large, well-defended neighbor. phenotypic plasticity contributed little to the morphological difference. The large-phenotype of Persicaria experienced significantly increased morphological size, survival, and reproductive output under the Urtica canopy compared to outside the canopy, whereas these traits of the dwarf phenotype were reduced under the Urtica canopy compared to outside. These results indicate that the net effects of Urtica on Persicaria were positive for the large ecotype and negative for the dwarf ecotype. Thus, the morphological adaptation of a palatable species to avoid grazing altered its interactions with a large, well-defended neighbor.
40305434|In heterogenous landscapes, seeds settle in some microsites more readily than others, independently of whether those microsites are suitable for germination and subsequent growth, and survival of seedlings. Wild seeds and seedlings of Ericameria nauseosa var. oreophila in the sand-dune ecosystem near Mono Lake, California show both concordance and conflict in where seeds are retained and where seedlings flourish. Using a field experiment, we followed performance of seeds and seedlings (i.e., the rate of germination and successful emergence, initial seedling size, seedling growth and survival over first growing season), by planting seeds of known sizes in pre-identified microsites (windward and lee aspects of interspaces between shrubs, under shrub canopies, and under snag canopies, respectively). Heavier seeds were more likely to germinate and emerge successfully and resulted in initially larger seedlings than lighter seeds. These initially larger seedlings subsequently remained larger over the growing season and lived longer than initially smaller seedlings. Independent of seed and initial seedling size, seedlings that germinated under the canopy of adult shrubs grew larger and survived longer than seedlings that germinated in interspaces (open space with little or no vegetation) or under snags (dead adult shrubs). Seedlings grown under the canopy of adult shrubs experienced significantly less solar radiation and wind-deposited sand than seedlings grown in interspace or snag microsites. Sand burial more than 1 cm was lethal for seedlings. The two variables of seed size and microsite type had by far greater impact on eventual growth and survival of seedlings than did aspect, and the effects of the former two variables were independent of each other. This study amplifies the body of work on E. nauseosa at this site demonstrating that the earliest events in the life history of this long-lived perennial shrub appear to persist through time despite the harsh and variable environment.
40212994|Climate and disturbance are considered key factors in explaining plant invasion, mainly by their effect on alien seedling recruitment. We tested whether soil disturbance by digging and altitude, as a sub- set of climate, affected the seedling recruitment of two alien species (Cirsium vulgare and Melilotus alba) in the mountain grasslands of central Argentina. We performed a seed-addition factorial experiment with altitude as a fixed factor co-variable (6 levels), time since sowing (6 levels) as an autoregressive co-variable, and soil disturbance by digging (two levels) and seed addition (two levels) as fixed factors. Seeds of the studied species were sown in replicated undisturbed and disturbed soil plots, in grassland stands located every 200 m from 1200 to 2200 m a.s.l. The number of emerging seedlings at each plot was recorded during a period of 8 months, at intervals of 30-60 days. Seedlings of both alien species emerged at all the studied altitudes, but only the recruitment of C. vulgare increased linearly with altitude. Moreover, the time window of seedling recruitment for this species increased with altitude. Soil disturbance produced a significant decrease in overall seedling emergence of both species; however, an increase in emergence was observed for C. vulgare at an altitude over 2000 m a.s.l. Natural emergence inside control plots without seed addition was only observed for Cirsium vulgare, which indicates that this species was not seed limited. Our results show that altitude and the absence of disturbance do not restrict the recruitment of C. vulgare and M. alba in these natural mountain grasslands. Moreover, these alien species seem to be tolerant to and even favoured by conditions occurring at higher altitudes and in absence of micro-site soil disturbances in the Cordoba mountain grasslands.
41412367|Naturally growing plants are able to plastically respond to myriad environmental challenges and opportunities. When confronted with multiple stresses, plants are expected to be able to prioritize their responses according to immediacy and predicted acuteness of these stresses. Here, we studied the interactive effects of competition and nutrient deprivation on growth responses of damaged Trifolium purpureum plants to salivary cues of a mammalian grazer. Salivary cues elicited marked growth responses in damaged but otherwise wellnourished and competition-free T. purpureum plants; however, this positive effect was annulled under Stipa capensis competition and was reversed under nutrient deficiency. The results suggest that the magnitude and direction of the effects of salivary cues on plant growth depend on an intricate prioritization of plant responses to prevailing and expected challenges and that T. purpureum plants perceive competition as a more acute stress than grazing. While herbivore saliva enables plants to reliably differentiate between herbivory and physical damage, the limited correlation between prevailing and future herbivory might reduce the informative value of salivary cues, rendering their effects weaker than those of prevalent competition and nutrient deficiency, whose continued detrimental effects are usually highly predictive. The results stress the importance of further studying the interactive effects of the acuteness and reliability of prevailing and anticipated stresses, and the informational content and adaptive value of environmental cues under various environmental circumstances.
20050966|I analyzed the distribution of Acanthaceae, Araceae, Bromeliaceae, Cactaceae, Melastomataceae, and Pteridophyta in 62 vegetation plots of 400
40666574|Flow and sediment regimes of floodplain rivers around the world have been changed by river regulation and land management, altering the ecological processes structuring riparian plant communities. However, the combined effects of inundation and sedimentation processes on riparian plant survival and growth are poorly understood. The separate and interactive effects of inundation duration and sedimentation depth on survival, growth and vegetative reproduction of two herbaceous clonal river bank plant species, Carex bichenoviana and Calotis scapigera, were investigated in an outdoor laboratory experiment. Plants were grown under three levels of sediment addition and two levels of inundation duration and were harvested after 60 days. Both species survived up to 30 days inundation in the absence of sediment. Growth and vegetative reproduction were increased for scapigera, but reduced for C. bichenoviana. Sediment deposition during periods of inundation reduced survival of both species, with C. scapigera unable to survive. Carex bichenoviana survived, but as inundation duration and depth of sediment increased, growth and vegetative reproduction were reduced. Our results indicate sediment deposition during flooding can change the tolerance of riparian plant species to inundation, reducing survival and growth.
20051141|Replicated field experiments with large plastic filters were carried out in Buenos Aires (Argentina, 34 S) to study the impacts of current levels of solar UV-B radiation (  315 nm) on soybean (Glycine max L.) crops and their interactions with chewing insects, in particular the soybean worm Anticarsia gemmatalis Hbner (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). Solar (near-ambient) UV-B induced changes in the leaves that reduced their attractiveness to A. gemmatalis larvae in laboratory "choice" bioassays. When the A. gemmatalis larvae were forced to consume leaves from field plots that received solar UV-B, they grew slightly less rapidly and suffered more mortality than their counterparts fed with leaves from plots covered with polyester films that excluded the UV-B component of sunlight. Exposure of the larvae themselves to ambient UV-B under a soybean canopy during the feeding trials did not lower their life expectancy. At the whole canopy level, we found that solar UV-B exclusion resulted in a two-fold increase in the number of leaf lesions inflicted by various species of chewing insects that naturally invaded the field plots. Leaves from canopies exposed to solar UV-B showed significantly higher levels of soluble phenolics and lower levels of lignin than leaves that developed in canopies covered by polyester films. No differences in specific leaf mass, leaf nitrogen or hemicellulose content were detected between the control and the solar-UV-B exclusion treatments. Our results are consistent with the idea that present-day solar UV-B has an important regulatory influence on the interactions between plants and phytophagous insects.
20050612|Multivariate land classification and land cover mapping by aerial photographic interpretation were used to model spatial variation of land cover in the Wicklow Mountains, Ireland and to structure a stratified random sampling programme of upland blanket bog vegetation. The total area of blanket bog with gully-erosion features was estimated as 33% of the area studied. Vegetation with hand peat-cutting patterns was estimated at 5%, and there was 35% undissected (intact) vegetation. There were differences between land classes in the estimated area of land cover with gully-erosion features or hand peat-cutting patterns. Sample vegetation quadrats, stratified by land class and aerial photographic land cover type, were grouped by their plant species composition. The groups represented ombrotrophic mire, soligenous mire and shrub heath vegetation. There was significant association between vegetation group and land class, related to variation in regional landscape type, but no significant association between vegetation group and the aerial photographic land cover types, undissected (intact) and dissected (gullied and cut-over) peats. It is proposed that the similarity of vegetation between undissected and dissected blanket bog is related to vegetation regeneration. The need to consider differences in vegetation distribution, composition and dynamics in ecological management strategies is emphasised. The study demonstrated the value of stratified random field sampling for cost-efficient regional ecological assessment in upland blanket bog landscapes typified by the Wicklow mountains, Ireland.
20050845|Fow two years, the seed rain and magnitude of seed losses due to predation were evaluated in Scots pine forests in southern Spain. The Crossbill was the most important pre-dispersal predator, consuming more than 80% of ripening seeds. In addition, other birds, mainly Tits and Siskin, also consumed seeds just before seed dispersal, reaching values of 16 and 51% losses in 1996 and 1997, respectively. Seed rain was monitored in different microhabitats (under pine canopies, under shrubs and in open areas), and was most intense under the canopy of mother plants both years. Post-dispersal seed predators (rodents and birds) consumed up to 96% of seeds reaching the ground. Both pre- and post-dispersal seed predators preferentially harvested filled seeds. Post-dispersal predation was similarly intense in all microhabitats, so predators did not change the spatial distribution of the seed rain. These high predation rates were constant between years, localities and habitats (woodland and treeline). We hypothesize that this high rate of seed predation is a major factor limiting the regeneration of these relict populations of Scots pince in its southernmost limit.
20146464|The field-layer structure relative to the distribution of canopy gaps was analysed in a subalpine spruce forest in the Babia Gra massif -- one of the highest in the Polish West Carpathians. Nineteen synusiae (floristically, physiognomically and ecologically homogenous one-layered vegetation units) in the field-layer were distinguished on the basis of the dominance of 8 vascular plants and 1 moss species. The presence of synusiae was noted in a grid of points spaced at 10  10 m which was established in a 14.4 ha area. This grid was then laid over a map of gap distribution. The main results are: 1. Nearly 2/3 of the area was covered with two monodominant synusiae: Athyrium distentifolium and Vaccinium myrtillus. 2. The spatial structure of the field layer was related to the distribution of gaps. A significant departure from a random distribution was noted for eight synusiae, which together covered 88% of the area under the spruce canopy and 92% in gaps. 3. The percentage of area covered by Athyrium distentifolium in gaps was nearly twice as great as outside them. A positive relationship to gaps also showed patches dominated by Calamagrostis villosa and Dryopteris dilatata + Rubus idaeus, while a negative relationship occurred for synusiae dominated by: Dryopteris dilatata, Vaccinium myrtillus, V. myrtillus + D. dilatata, and V. myrtillus + Polytrichum formosum. 4. There were significant differences in the structure of the field layer between the understory of closed stands and in gaps larger than 50 m. This means that even a small-scale disturbance touching a few trees and causing only a small modification in light and soil conditions can result in considerable changes in the field-layer vegetation in subalpine spruce forests.
40305781|The main goal of our work was to estimate how large the errors are associated with repeated vegetation mapping. We compared two vegetation maps (both 1:10 000) of the Pieniny National Parkca 2300 ha (southern Poland), the first made in 1966 and the second in 2001. We superimposedusing the ARC-INFO softwarea dense grid of points (50 x 50 m) upon each map, and we determined the identity of vegetation unit in each point for the year 1966 and for the year 2001. That procedure was repeated 100 times, each time changing the position of the grid by a random vector. To estimate the size of mapping errors, we compared the patches of communities which should not change their location during 35 years: vegetation of rocky outcrops and local wet depressions, and fertile beech forest, considered a climax community for the Pieniny Mountains. Overlapping small vegetation patches (average patch size below 0.5 ha) yielded highly erroneous results, while the reliability of overlapping the communities with large patches is much higher, exceeding 80% for average patch size of 5 ha. Taking into consideration the communities of average patch size of 1 ha, we can estimate that the vegetation has undergone profound changes: some communities expanded, while others shrunk. The area of meadows remained about the same, but majority of meadows in 2001 was located in former arable fields and previous meadow areas become forested. Among beech forests, we recorded an increase of area covered by floristically rich variants at the expense of floristically poor variants. We conclude that some information about vegetation changes may be obtained only by comparing sequential vegetation maps, but the reliability of the results strongly depends on the size of vegetation patches.
20051284|We examined the effects of fertilization on the diversity, abundance, and cover of the understory plant community of two montane wet forests in Hawaii. One site occupies a young substrate, where aboveground tree growth is limited by nitrogen (N), while the other site is on an older substrate, where aboveground tree growth is limited by phosphorus (P). Both sites contained an on-going, long-term factorial fertilization experiment in which plots were fertilized semi-annually with N, P, or N and P in combination. In each fertilization treatment, we measured density of species  0.5 m tall and percent cover of species &lt0.5 m tall. Fertilization with N reduced species richness at the young, N-limited site, but none of the nutrient additions altered species richness at the older, P-limited site. Species diversity and evenness were not affected by fertilization at either site. At the site with low N availability, plots fertilized with NP had higher densities of the non-native ginger Hedychium gardnerianum, and at the site with low P-availability, densities of the exotic shrub Rubus argutus were higher in P- and NP-fertilized plots. Other effects included declines in moss cover with fertilization at both sites, and reduced abundance of native seedlings in response to N and NP addition at the N-limited site. Continued long-term fertilization could lead to greater dominance of non-native species by encouraging their growth at the expense of native species, which may suffer decreased recruitment as fertilization and increased abundance of the non-native species may reduce suitable substrates for seedling establishment.
20050862|We surveyed vegetation along forest margins in a 65-year chronosequence of old-fields at the Cedar Creek Natural History Area in east-central Minnesota, USA, to identify successional patterns of woody plants and to determine if these were correlated with soil nitrogen. We predicted that shrub and tree abundance, size, and distance of occurrence from the forest edge would be correlated with field age or soil nitrogen. Instead we did not find successional trends in the abundance or composition of woody species. Even in the oldest field the abundance of trees and shrubs was low and concentrated in areas close to the forest. Though trees were larger and present further from the forest edges in older fields, average tree height was less than 126 cm in all fields. Since we did not find successional trends we looked at various local factors (local seed sources, deer browsing, and forest edge aspect) and their relation to recruitment, mortality, or growth to explain variation among fields in abundance of trees or shrubs. The three most common tree species (Quercus rubra, Q. macrocarpa, and Populus tremuloides) all had a higher relative abundance of seedlings, and two (Q. rubra and Q. macrocarpa) had a higher relative abundance of large trees adjacent to forests with a high abundance of conspecific adults. Most trees taller than 20 cm were browsed by deer and were shorter in 1995 than they were in 1993. Mortality was higher for trees less than 30 cm indicating that mortality was size-dependent. Forest edge aspect did not significantly influence the abundance or demography of any species. Our results suggest that the patterns of seedling recruitment were largely determined by the proximity of seed sources and that these patterns may persist so that tree communities in old-fields resemble adjacent forests. Deer may be a significant factor in the suppression of tree populations in old-fields through repeated browsing which reduces tree growth and elevates tree mortality by prolonging the period of time trees remain susceptible to size-dependent mortality.
24553693|Urban areas around the world are rapidly expanding, with flow-on consequences for the native plants and animals that inhabit these areas. The impacts of this urban growth are not always immediate, and in the case of the local extinction of plant species may take up to 100150 years. Understanding how urbanization affects ecological patterns and processes may allow us to minimize the loss of species from these areas through better planning and conservation decisions. This study examined the composition of the soil seed bank in remnant patches of grassy woodland along an urbanization gradient in northern Melbourne, Australia, using an ex-situ glasshouse germination trial. A total of 108 species emerged from the soil seed bank, although a majority of the seedlings were seeds from 19 non-indigenous monocot species. Species richness per plot of emergent seedlings was best explained by average annual rainfall, rather than the degree of urbanization in the surrounding landscape. This indicates that the existing plant community may be responding to a natural productivity gradient. The persistence of 123 indigenous plant species in the existing vegetation, even when the soil seed bank is dominated by non-indigenous monocot species, suggests that these plant communities can exist within urban areas, particularly in combination with appropriate management activities that ensure the continuation of previously occurring natural processes.
20146584|The 'intermediate disturbance hypothesis' (IDH) predicts maximum species diversity at intermediate levels of disturbance. Disturbance levels are measured by intensity or frequency of disturbance or by the time since disturbance. The IDH has been tested over a wide range of studies and communities with results either accepting or rejecting the hypothesis. The objectives of this study were to determine how observed disturbance response patterns for the same herbaceous plant community are influenced by modelling techniques, particularly in relation to the expression of disturbance gradients, choice of species diversity indices, and time of assessment since disturbance. Response patterns were examined using a multi-factorial disturbance experiment involving grazing (absent and present); fire (absent and present); soil cultivation (none, 5 and 20 cm); and amendment (none, fertiliser, and fertiliser plus clover seeds). Generalized linear models with a b-spline function were used to define response patterns for five different disturbance gradients over a 24-month period using three indices of diversity. Seven basic disturbance response models were recognized ranging from the classical IDH bell-shaped pattern through increasing or decreasing trends, to a no-change model with increasing levels of disturbance. Only 6.7% of all models were consistent with the IDH. The no-change model was found in nearly half the cases investigated and increased in occurrence with time since disturbance. The choice of the disturbance intensity gradient, the species diversity index used and the time of assessment after disturbance significantly influenced the frequency of occurrence of the disturbance response models observed. Consequently, the responses of vegetation to disturbance gradients show many patterns depending on how they are defined and modelled rather than the simple bell-shaped curve as predicted by the IDH, but the ecological mechanisms supporting some of these patterns need to be further investigated.
40305761|Plant colonization can be limited by lack of seeds or by factors that reduce establishment. The role of seed limitation in community assembly is being increasingly recognized, but in early primary succession, establishment failure is still considered more important. We studied the factors limiting colonization on the foreland of Coleman Glacier, Washington, USA, to determine the importance of seed and establishment limitation during primary succession. We also evaluated the effects of seed predation, drought, and existing vegetation on establishment. We planted seeds of seven species into plots of four different ages and found evidence that both seed and establishment limitation are strong in early succession. We also found that seed and establishment limitation both remained high in later stages of succession. Seed predation reduced establishment for most species and some evidence suggested that drought and existing vegetation also limit establishment. Because both dispersal and establishment failure restrict colonization in recently exposed habitat, late-seral forest species may have a difficult time migrating upward in response to global climate change.
41429070|The management regime may have a significant impact on the productivity and dynamics of grasslands, but the causal relationships influencing grassland conservation value are still not completely understood. Changes of selected community characteristics, such as standing crop, proportion of forbs in the standing crop, litter amount, litter decomposition and seedling recruitment, were investigated in a 4 year manipulative experiment in a mountain grassland in Slovakia. The aim of the research was to compare changes in newly abandoned sites and sites where restoration measures were applied after 20 years of abandonment. The sites were located in areas containing two vegetation types of the Arrhenatherion alliance (wet Poo-Trisetetum and dry Anthoxantho-Agrostietum) with different moisture regimes. The expected increase of the standing crop after abandonment was rather slow, and more pronounced towards the end of the experiment, and in the wet meadow type (~30% increase). The restoration mowing promoted forb proportions in the biomass, but it did not decrease the standing biomass in the restored grasslands. Strong litter accumulation after abandonment was observed in subsequent years after abandonment, when the amount of litter increased about 100% in abandoned plots. Decrease in litter was also significant after the start of restoration mowing (a decrease from 258 to 159 g m in wet type and from 287 to 147 g m in dry type was noted). Accumulated litter was negatively correlated to seedling recruitment (r = -0.63 at the end of the experiment). The litterbag experiment showed that the wet type has a higher rate of decomposition, with 20% more biomass decomposed during the litter-bag experiment. The experiment confirmed a negative role of litter accumulation on seedling recruitment, with the number of seedlings per m decreasing from 413 to 321 individuals in the abandoned wet-type site. This may lead to a decrease in species richness. Mowing along with raking of mowed biomass may be a useful tool to restore degraded mountain grasslands and to remove accumulated litter from the stands.
20050831|The habitat conditions in a mire on the southern Alps of Italy were defined based on data on topography, hydrology, water chemistry, peat chemistry and floristic composition. Water flowed along the main longitudinal axis from the eastern dry sector to the western wet sector of the mire. Along the transverse axes the water table assumed a convex shape during dry periods, which resulted in water flowing towards the margins of the mire. During wet periods the water table assumed a concave shape, determining a flow of water from the margins towards the mire centre. The absence of any vertical groundwater flows enhanced habitat acidification, particularly in the eastern sector of the mire characterised by a smaller peat thickness. Surface water in the central portion of the mire had low calcium concentration and low electrical conductivity, comparable to those found in ombrotrophic bogs. Calcium concentration and electrical conductivity in surface water were higher along the margins, indicating a certain degree of mineral soil water inflow. Total contents of major nutrients (N, P and K) in the peat were rather homogeneous over the mire, while calcium concentrations were slightly higher in the peat layers of the wet portion of the mire. Species distribution was strongly influenced, rather than by surface water chemistry, by water table position and rate of surface water flow.
20051310|The study was carried out in ten natural canopy gaps in the Santa Genebra County Reserve (224945S, 470633W) in the county of Campinas, So Paulo State, Brazil. The size and canopy openness of the gaps were studied using hemispherical photographs. The vegetation survey included all shrubs and trees with height  0.50 m in the gaps interiors and all the individuals with PBH (perimeter at breast height)  15 cm in a 3 m surrounding border of the gaps. The similarity among the gaps and among their surrounding areas was assessed by the Jaccard similarity index and by cluster analyzes. The gap size varied from 20.09 to 468 m, with a predominance of small gaps. The families with the greatest species richness in the gaps were Rutaceae, Rubiaceae and Euphorbiaceae. The species with the greatest number of individuals in the gaps were Coffea arabica L., Hybanthus atropurpureus (St. Hil.) Taub. and Actinostemon klotschii (Muell. Arg.) Pax, all widely distributed in the understorey. Shade-tolerant species (late secondary species) predominated in function of the predominance of small gaps. The high number of species found in the gaps reflects the importance of these disturbances in the maintenance of species diversity in the studied forest.
20050517|The intermediate disturbance hypothesis is a widely accepted generalization regarding patterns of species diversity, but may not hold true where fire is the disturbance. In the Mediterranean-climate shrublands of South Africa, called fynbos, fire is the most importance disturbance and a controlling factor in community dynamics. The intermediate disturbance hypothesis states that diversity will be highest at sites that have had an intermediate frequency of disturbance and will be lower at sites that have experienced very high or very low disturbance frequencies. Measures of diversity are sensitive to scale; therefore, we compared species richness for three fire regimes in South African mountain fynbos to test the intermediate disturbance hypothesis over different spatial scales from 1 m to 0.1 hectares. Species diversity response to fire frequency was highly scale-dependent, but the relationship between species diversity and disturbance frequency was opposite that predicted by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. At the largest spatial scales, species diversity was highest at the least frequently burned sites (40 years between fires) and lowest at the sites of moderate (15 to 26 years between fires) and high fire frequency (alternating four and six year fire cycle). Community heterogeneity, measured both as the slope of the species-area curve for a site and as the mean dissimilarity in species composition among subplots within a site, correlated with species diversity at the largest spatial scales. Community heterogeneity was highest at the least frequently burned sites and lowest at the sites that experienced an intermediate fire frequency.
24553702|Desert shrubs often accumulate different types of phenolic compounds but what determines the amount and diversity of these compounds is an issue scarcely explored. The aim of this study was to assess differences in the amount and diversity of phenolic compounds in leaves among coexisting shrub species differing in rooting depth and leaf turnover. We hypothesized that the diversity and amount of phenolic compounds in leaves of desert shrubs are related to access to soil water through rooting depth, and to leaf turnover. The study was carried out in the Patagonian Monte of Argentina. We collected green leaves of six species representing the dominant shrub morphotypes (tall evergreen, tall deciduous, and medium evergreen shrubs) and assessed lignin concentration and groups of soluble phenols obtained by sequential extraction with ethyl ether, ethyl acetate, and amyl alcohol. We also assessed nitrogen concentration in leaves and leaf mass per unit area (LMA) as traits related to leaf lifespan. The diversity of phenolic compounds was higher in green leaves of tall shrubs with deep rooting depth than in those of medium evergreen shrubs with shallow rooting depth. Diversity of phenolic compounds in green leaves was negatively related to lignin concentration. Evergreen shrubs had higher amount of phenolic compounds in green leaves than deciduous ones and the total amount of phenolic compounds in green leaves was positively related to LMA. We concluded that access to soil water sources and leaf turnover were related to the amount and diversity of phenolic compounds in green leaves of desert shrub species and these results are consistent with those predicted by the resource availability theory for plants from resource-rich and resource-poor habitats.
20050475|A field study was designed to investigate the effect of shrubs on the dynamics and structure of annual plant communities in a sandy desert ecosystem. Densities of emerging and reproductive plants of all annual species were monitored in permanent quadrats located under shrubs and in open areas between shrubs during three successive years; a relatively dry one, a relatively wet one, and a very dry one. A total of 29 species were recorded in the study. Of these, 19 species did not show any evidence for differences in abundance between the two habitats. Nine species exhibited year-to-year variation in their responses to the shrub-opening gradient, being more common in a particular habitat during one year, and showing no response or even an opposite response during a different year. Only one species was consistently more abundant under shrubs throughout the whole study period, and no species was consistently more abundant in the openings. These findings contradict the hypothesis that annual species associated with desert shrub communities can be categorized into distinct groups based on their 'preference' for shrubs vs. openings. Ordination analyses of community-level patterns indicated that annual communities inhabiting the openings were more stable than those inhabiting the shrub habitat. The main lesson from this study is the importance of long-term observations in studies attempting to characterize community-level responses to environmental gradients.
40212925|In the Midwestern United States, the General Land Office (GLO) survey records provide the only reasonably accurate data source of forest composition and tree species distribution at the time of pre-European settlement (circa late 1800 to early 1850). However, GLO data have two fundamental limitations: coarse spatial resolutions (the Square mile section and half mile distance between quarter corner and section corner) and point data format, which are insufficient to describe Vegetation that is continuously distributed over the landscape. Thus, geographic information System and statistical inference methods to map GLO data and reconstruct historical Vegetation are needed. In this study, we applied a hierarchical Bayesian approach that combines species and environment relationships and explicit spatial dependence to map GLO data. We showed that the hierarchical Bayesian approach (1) is effective in predicting historical Vegetation distribution, (2) is robust at multiple classification levels (species, genus, and functional groups), (3) can be used to derive Vegetation patterns at fine resolutions (e. g., in this study, 120 m) when the corresponding environmental data exist, and (4) is applicable to relatively moderate map sizes (e. g., 792  763 pixels) due to the limitation of computational capacity. Our predictions of historical Vegetation from this study provide a quantitative and spatial basis for restoration of natural floodplain Vegetation. An important assumption in this approach is that the current environmental covariates can be used as Surrogates for the historical environmental covariates, which are often not available. Our study showed that terrain and soil covariates least affected by past natural and anthropogenic alternations can be used as covariates for GLO Vegetation mapping.
20146776|Monitoring multiple species and their interactions at multiple scales is critical for any useful habitat conservation plans and for adaptive ecosystem management programs. Viability of single species can be understood only in the context of ecological interactions with other species at multiple spatial and temporal scales. Here, we present a case study of the spatial and temporal dynamics for two perennial grasses, Bouteloua eriopoda and B. gracilis, by using long-term, high resolution transect data from 1989 to 1998 at two sites in the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge (Deep Well and Five Points) in central New Mexico, USA. Information entropy was used to describe the spatial distribution of each species and the fractal dimension of information entropy was used to characterize the complexity of species dynamics across scales. When considered individually, the spatial distribution of each species was scale-invariant. However, species joint occurrences changed as scale of resolution increased at both sites. Interactions changed at scales less than 3.2 m at Deep Well and less than 1.6 m at Five Points. Across years, the interactions of these species at Deep Well were significantly different in 1989 from all other years. Our results argue that monitoring multiple species at multiple spatial and temporal scales is necessary to better understand multispecies interactions and community dynamics both of which have important conservation implications under changing environmental conditions.
20050816|The landscape of central Arizona U.S.A. is characterized by a patchy distribution of three major vegetation types: chaparral, woodland and grassland. Disturbance is common in the landscape, primarily livestock grazing, fire and conversion (i.e., removal of woody plants to increase forage for livestock). The purposes of this research were to determine changes in the landscape mosaic of central Arizona between 1940 and 1989 and to predict future changes. Using aerial photographs from 1940, 1968 and 1989 and digital overlays followed by transition matrix analysis, we found that chaparral and its adjacent grassland had changed less than woodland and its grassland. However, both had nearly equal projected stabilization times. Moreover, disturbance increased time for stabilization and some results were scale-dependent.
40305467|The purposes of this article are to quantify the relationship between epiphytic lichen distribution and macroclimatic variables in the study area and to provide a case study for evaluating the predictive role of epiphytic lichens as bioclimatic indicators. The study was carried out in the Liguria region (NWItaly), a small (5432 km) borderline area, where phytoclimatic features range from the dry Mediterranean to the Alpine in a few kilometers. Epiphytic lichen diversity was sampled using a standardized protocol [Asta et al (2002) In: Nimis et al (eds) Monitoring with lichens: monitoring lichens. Kluwer, Dordrecht]. Abundance of the species in the sampling sites was related to macroclimatic parameters (yearly average temperature and rainfall) and non-parametric multivariate models were calculated to find significative relationships among predictive and response variables. A total of 59 species showed highly significant relation with macroclimatic parameters. Four groups were selected, by means of a cluster analysis, related to four climatic niches (warm-humid, cold-humid, mesothermic-humid, warm-dry). Distri- butional pattern of the groups in the survey area showed a good correspondence with the bioclimatic units of Liguria region described by Nimis [(2003) Checklist of the Lichens of Italy 3.0. University of Tri este, Dept of Biology, http : //www. dbiodbs. univ. trieste. it. Cited 1 Jun 2006]. A significant subset of epiphytic lichen species in the study area have been proved to be efficient bioclimatic indicator and it is supposed to give good results to monitor climatic changes, in a long-term perspective.
40305736|Changes to the primary successional environment caused by colonizing plants that present symbiotic associations with nitrogen-fixing bacteria were investigated at two areas on Mount St. Helens. One area was occupied by alder (Alnus viridis) thickets and old lupine (Lupinus lepidus) patches and the other area by young lupine patches and pumice barrens. Alder thicket soils had higher levels for a few soil nutrients and had greater cover by other pioneer species as compared to old lupine patches. Many soil nutrients, including nitrogen and soil organic matter, were below detection limits in old lupine patches but not in alder thicket soils. Young lupine patch soils were generally not different from barren site soils but had greater cover by other pioneer species. Below detection nitrogen and soil organic matter levels also occurred in many barren soil samples but not in young lupine patch soils. Barren soils were moister than were the other sites. The apparent increase in soil fertility has not led to invasion by later successional species, perhaps due to dry conditions or to other inhibitory factors. Seedbanks, composed of early successional species, appear to be developing in these areas.
41508644|Plants alter environmental conditions enhancing the recruitment of other species. In spite of prior reviews of facilitation, the variability of its occurrence, mechanisms, and specificity across terrestrial ecosystems has not yet been assessed. In this article, we analyze facilitative mechanisms and the distribution of specific traits, such as nitrogen fixation and the presence of fleshy fruits, across ecosystems. A comprehensive database including 2,080 cases of facilitation among higher plants from 539 articles was analyzed with descriptive statistics for occurrences of positive interactions and underlying mechanisms in different terrestrial ecosystems. Positive interactions by plant-induced environmental changes are widespread in a range of ecosystems and not limited to conditions of chronic abiotic stress such as semiarid, alpine, and wetland ecosystems. The capability to act as nurse largely varied among different growth forms, and was observed more frequently for woody than for herbaceous plants. Nitrogen fixers occur much more frequently as nurse plants than as beneficiary plants in facilitation cases due to increasing soil fertility. As known for Mediterranean ecosystems, fleshy-fruited species appear more dependent on facilitative interactions than other plants, being more frequent among beneficiaries than among nurses. The pattern can be extended worldwide being consistent in wetland, temperate, and alpine ecosystems as well. Our description of the relationship between distribution, mechanisms, and specificity of facilitation in terrestrial ecosystems has implications for the understanding of plant community organization considering that plant nursing capacity is affected by their size, architecture, and life span.
20050873|Chronosequence and permanent plot studies are the two most common methods for evaluating successional dynamics in plant communities. We combined these two approaches by re-sampling an old-field chronosequence at Cedar Creek Natural History Area (Minnesota, USA) to: (1) measure rates of secondary succession; and (2) to test the ability of the chronosequence approach to predict actual successional dynamics over a 14-year survey interval. For each of 19 chronosequence fields we calculated four complimentary indices of succession rate for community changes that actually occurred within each of these fields between 1983 and 1997. We found that measures of compositional dissimilarity, species turnover, and the change rates of perennial and native species cover over this 14-year period were all negatively correlated with field age, indicating that the rate of successional change in these old-fields generally declines over time. We also found that data collected from the initial static chronosequence survey (1983) accurately predicted many of the observed changes in species abundance that occurred between 1983 and 1997, but was a poor predictor of changes in species richness. In general, chronosequence re-sampling confirmed the validity of using the chronosequence approach to infer basic patterns of successional change.
41508759|In subarctic ecosystems, plant growth is mostly limited by nutrient availability and harsh climate. Investigating how soil nutrient availability controls the plant community composition may therefore help to understand indirect effects of climate change. The study was conducted in a long-term field experiment on a subarctic-alpine fellfield dominated by woody evergreen shrubs, bryophytes, and lichens. To manipulate nutrient availability additions of NPK fertilizer, labile C, and fungicide (benomyl) were done in a fully factorial design, replicated in six blocks. The treatments were run for 10 years, and the aboveground plant biomass was harvested 4 and 16 years after initiating the experiment. In addition, soil inorganic N and P concentration was analyzed the same years. Increased nutrient availability (NPK fertilizer) largely increased the biomass of graminoids and unexpectedly of bryophytes, but not of other vascular plant groups. Also, limitation of soil nutrient availability caused by labile C addition decreased the relative proportion of green shoots in evergreen shrubs, although these were expected to cope better with the nutrient limitation than the opportunistic graminoids, which, by contrast, were unaffected. Reduced fungal biomass due to benomyl addition was accompanied by increased evergreen shrub and clubmoss biomass. Taken together, the effects of treatments were most pronounced 16 years after initiation of the experiment, but despite changes in biomass the overall plant community composition was resistant to environmental changes.
20050804|The arrangement of trees within a stand by location and age (stand structure) is in part determined by the life history strategy of the species and the disturbance history of the stand. In western North America such disturbances are often the product of wildfires and human management activities. The current study uses spatial analysis to characterize three stands of Pinus torreyana with known disturbance histories. Two stands are located at Torrey Pines State Reserve (TPSR). Of these, one stand has burned twice since 1972. Fire has been successfully excluded from the other stand since the early part of this century. A third stand, on Santa Rosa Island, Channel Islands National Park (SRI), has been grazed heavily since the mid-19th century and has not experienced fire since that time. One-hectare study plots were established in the interior of each stand. Considering the known life history attributes of P. torreyana, and the disturbance histories of the stands, predictions are made concerning the spatial characteristics of the respective stands. All trees within each study plot were sized by diameter breast height (DBH) and mapped. Three techniques of spatial analysis are applied to the resulting unweighted point pattern distributions and the distributions weighted by the square root of DBH as a surrogate for age. The results are consistent with predictions and confirm the following generalizations concerning patterns of aggregation in Torrey pine stands. Young trees tend to be more aggregated than old trees within the same stands. Young stands tend to be more aggregated than old stands on otherwise ecologically similar sites. On a periodically disturbed site there are clusters of trees that represent cohorts of post-disturbance recruitment.
20050887|The importance of neighbourhood structure on the distribution of plant functional attributes was investigated in two managed forests in Denmark. Species composition was recorded for 325 plots of 5  5 m and species were assigned to functional groups based on vegetative attributes: (a) Raunkiaer life-form and (b) height of adult plants, and regenerative attributes: (c) mode of dispersal and (d) pollination class. The distribution of attributes was related to neighbourhood parameters that reflect the composition, distribution and diversity of nine habitat classes within a 25-m radius from the focal plot. Regression trees were used to analyse counts of attributes per plot. Best predictors were neighbourhood scores for open areas, road-side habitat, and neighbourhood diversity. The correlation between individual functional attributes and neighbourhood parameters were presented in a correlation matrix. A cluster analysis, representing a first step towards the construction of plant functional types, resulted in five groups characterised by a particular combination of functional attributes and preference of neighbourhood.
41508798|An analysis of the fern vegetation on 156 plots along an elevational gradient (45-3400 m) in undisturbed forests in Costa Rica, Central America, showed a hump-shaped pattern of species richness with a maximum of up to 68 species per 400 m at midelevations. This study documents the contribution of specific habitats (forest types: ridges, ravines) and niches within them (dead wood, rocks, growth zones in trees) to the local fern richness and the relation of species richness to elevation and climatic variables. Forests along ravines showed significantly higher species richness, presumably caused by high environmental humidity. The mean number of individuals of occupied niches per species increased significantly with elevation, suggesting that the niche breadth of species increased and that the differentiation of niches decreased with elevation. Both findings may explain the reduced fern species richness towards and above the upper treeline, but not at low elevations. The key factors for the decreases of species richness at the extremes of the gradient are likely to involve climatic conditions.
20051091|Seedlings of two Mediterranean plants, the slow-growing, evergreen sclerophyll Ceratonia siliqua L. and the fast growing drought semi-deciduous Phlomis fruticosa L., were grown for one year in the field at ambient or ambient plus supplemental UV-B radiation (equivalent to a 15% ozone depletion) and two levels of applied fertilizers (NPK). The effects on growth, morphological, anatomical and physiological parameters were measured at final plant harvest. Additional nutrients increased leaf nitrogen, improved growth and reduced the root/shoot ratio in both plants, yet these effects were more pronounced in the fast growing P. fruticosa. A nutrient-induced increase in chlorophyll content was also observed in this plant. The growth responses to UV-B radiation were different for the two species. Growth in C. siliqua was not affected by UV-B radiation at both nutrient levels and the same was true for P. fruticosa at low nutrients. However, at the high nutrient level, supplemental UV-B radiation improved growth in P. fruticosa, indicating a strong interaction between the treatments. Photosystem II (PSII) photochemical efficiency, methanol-extractable UV-B absorbing capacity, total phenolics and tannins were not affected by either treatment in both plants. It is concluded that nutrient levels can strongly modify the UV-B radiation effects on growth of P. fruticosa. We presume that this may be correlated to the fast growing habit of this species.
24553733|Leaf area and its derivatives (e.g. specific leaf area) are widely used in ecological assessments, especially in the fields of plantanimal interactions, plant community assembly, ecosystem functioning and global change. Estimating leaf area is highly time-consuming, even when using specialized software to process scanned leaf images, because manual inputs are invariably required for scale detection and leaf surface digitisation. We introduce Black Spot Leaf Area Calculator (hereafter, Black Spot), a technique and stand-alone software package for rapid and automated leaf area assessment from images of leaves taken with standard flatbed scanners. Black Spot operates on comprehensive rule-sets for colour band ratios to carry out pixel-based classification which isolates leaf surfaces from the image background. Importantly, the software extracts information from associated image meta-data to detect image scale, thereby eliminating the need for time-consuming manual scale calibration. Black Spot's output provides the user with estimates of leaf area as well as classified images for error checking. We tested this method and software combination on a set of 100 leaves of 51 different plant species collected from the field. Leaf area estimates generated using Black Spot and by manual processing of the images using an image editing software generated statistically identical results. Mean error rate in leaf area estimates from Black Spot relative to manual processing was 0.4 % (SD = 0.76). The key advantage of Black Spot is the ability to rapidly batch process multi-species datasets with minimal user effort and at low cost, thus making it a valuable tool for field ecologists.
20146430|Gap capture methods predict future forest canopy species composition from the tallest trees growing in canopy gaps rather than from random samples of shaded understory trees. We used gap capture methods and a simulation approach to forecast canopy composition in three old oak forests (Quercus spp.) on dry-mesic sites in southern Wisconsin, USA. In the simulation, a gap sapling is considered successful if it exceeds a threshold height of 13-17 m (height of maximum crown width of canopy trees) before its crown center can be overtopped by lateral crown growth of mature trees. The composition of both the tallest gap trees and simulated gap captures suggests that 68-90% of the next generation of canopy trees in the stands will consist of non-Quercus species, particularly Ulmus rubra, Carya ovata and Prunus serotina. Quercus species will probably remain as a lesser stand component, with Quercus alba and Quercus rubra predicted to comprise about 19% of successful gap trees across the three stands. Several methods of predicting future canopy composition gave similar results, probably because no gap opportunist species were present in these stands and there was an even distribution of species among height strata in gaps. Gap trees of competing species already average 11-13 m tall, and mean expected time for these trees to reach full canopy height is only 19 years. For these reasons, we suggest that dominance will shift from oaks to other species, even though late successional species (e.g., Acer and Tilia) are not presently common in the understories of these stands.
40212872|The decomposition of leaf litter for five dominant plant species of a desert scrub in Baja California Sur, Mexico was investigated. We designed a factorial decomposition experiment using decomposition bags and the collected leaflitter from Prosopis articulata, Jatropha cinerea, J. cuneata, Cyrtocarpa edulis, and Fouquieria diguetti. Factors, such as radiation exposure, rainfall, and the size of litter-consuming organisms were considered. The rates of litter decomposition were calculated for these plant species and the environmental conditions by using single exponential models. The initial concentration of nutrients (C, N, P, K, and Ca) and crude-fiber content of the leaf litter were determined. Our results show that the environmental heterogeneity generated by different conditions of radiation exposure and short-term rainfall patterns are the most relevant factors affecting decomposition processes in this Sonoran desert community. A species-specific pattern was observed in decay rates and mass-loss patterns. Decomposition rates varied from 0.0027 to 0.0201 depending on the species and exposure to different ecological conditions. The decay rates were higher under bare-soil conditions and during a wet year than under the shade provided by the canopy of nurse trees and during a dry year. The leaf litter of J. cuneata reincorporated to the soil more rapidly than that of P. articulata and C. edulis. Termites were the more important macroarthropods associated with litter decomposition, and their harvest distribution was independent of the resources distribution. The ecological significance of these results is discussed considering the extreme climatic conditions prevailing in this region.
20050869|Photosynthetic oxygen production and PAM fluorescence measurements were used to follow photoinhibition in the red macroalga Porphyra umbilicalis. Exposure to simulated solar radiation caused inhibition of the effective photosynthetic quantum yield from which the thalli partially recovered in the shade in subsequent hours. There were no significant differences between samples exposed to unfiltered radiation and those exposed to radiation from which increasing portions of UV radiation had been removed indicating that the thalli are well adapted to current levels of solar PAR and UV radiation. This notion was supported by the finding of high concentrations of UV screening pigments which were even enhanced by exposure to increased UV radiation. However, when exposed to (only) UV radiation about 50% higher than that encountered by the organisms in their natural habitat, the photosynthetic yield decreased slowly and did not show any recovery even when the degree of inhibition did not exceed 10%.
40212959|Microsatellites were used to evaluate the mating system of the remaining trees in a logged population of Swietenia macrophylla, a highly valuable and threatened hardwood species, in the Brazilian Amazon. A total of 25 open pollinated progeny arrays of 16 individuals, with their mother trees, were genotyped using eight highly polymorphic microsatellite loci. Genotypic data analysis from the progeny arrays showed that 373 out of the 400 seedlings ( 93.25%) were unambiguously the result of out- crossed matings and that the remaining 6.75% had genotypes consistent with self-fertilisation. Apomixis could be ruled out, since none of the 400 seedlings analysed had a multi-locus genotype identical to its mother tree. The high estimate of the multi-locus outcrossing rate
20050878|The effects of ultraviolet-B radiation on regeneration after disturbance of a natural sub-arctic heathland have been investigated. Areas of pristine dwarf shrub heath were denuded of all above ground biomass in 1992 and exposed to enhanced UV-B (simulating a 15% depletion of the ozone layer). The resulting regenerated stem and leaf growth parameters were measured after four years on three dwarf shrubs, Vaccinium myrtillus, V. uliginosum and V. vitisidaea and the grass Calamagrostis lapponica; leaves of the three dwarf shrubs were also analysed for UV-absorbing compounds and carbohydrates. Regeneration irrespective of treatment was slow, with Empetrum hermaphroditum failing to regenerate at all. Vaccinium myrtillus showed the most rapid regeneration attaining much of its original biomass in four years. There was a significant interaction between UV-B and year of regeneration in V. myrtillus; annual stem length increment showed an initial stimulation of 75% under enhanced UV-B in the first year of regeneration while a reduction of 16% was observed in the fourth year. Both V. uliginosum and V. vitis-idaea showed a reduction in annual stem length increment as regeneration progressed with a greater than 50% reduction in stem increment in the fourth year of regeneration compared to the first. Vaccinium uliginosum also showed an initial reduction in stem length increment of 40% under enhanced UV-B. None of the species were affected by enhanced UV-B in terms of total regenerated stem and leaf biomass or UV-absorbing compounds in regenerated leaf tissue. Total leaf carbohydrate and the ethanol/water soluble fraction in V. uliginosum were significantly increased by 29% and 31% respectively under enhanced UV-B. This suggests either a stimulation of photosynthesis or a reduction in sink size for photo-assimilates. Results are discussed in the context of the extremely slow regeneration of sub-arctic heath communities and the implications of contrasting UV-B effects on the regenerative ability of different species.
20050722|Gap models have been applied to a wide range of ecosystems, mainly temperate and boreal forests, but rarely have such models been applied to Mediterranean ecosystems. In the present review we address some problems of gap models for predicting the long-term dynamics of Mediterranean ecosystems, and we suggest plant functional types suitable for modelling based on responses to disturbance. Most gap models do not take into account different life forms, interactions with fire (e.g., resprouting and stimulation of the germination), and underground structures. Long term human impact on Mediterranean ecosystems has made a significant impact on the current landscapes. That intense land use, involving long-lived slow-growing species, has had long-term consequences. It is not possible to understand Mediterranean vegetation and to validate any model without considering these factors. The lack of data for Mediterranean species may be overcome by taking into account correlations of traits and trade-offs between different functional types. A simple disturbance-based functional group system is discussed.
20146704|This work investigates the Polylepis-dominated forests in the high Andes of central and southern Bolivia, using both the Braun-Blanquet approach and multivariate analysis. These are among the highest altitude forest types in the world, and the region under study is a center of diversity for the genus, and is located at the confluence of four biogeographical provinces. Nine main plant communities were distinguished. Correspondence Analysis revealed a strong dependence of community composition primarily on biogeographic as well as on bioclimatic features. The greatest forest type diversity is found in the central part of the Cordillera Oriental in the Tropical pluviseasonal bioclimate, within a Supratropical thermotype and a Subhumid ombrotype.
40305575|The effect of nectar robbing on plant fitness is poorly understood and restricted to a few plant species. Furthermore, the available studies generally evaluate the effects of nectar robbing on female fitness, disregarding the male component. Here we measured the effects of the nectar-robbing bumblebees on male (measured as pollen analogue flow distance) and female (measured as seed production) reproductive success in the insect-dependent Polygala vayredae, a narrow endemic species from the pre-Pyrenees (Spain). Intense nectar robbing by bumblebees significantly reduced the nectar available to legitimate pollinators in the studied population, and this reduction affected both male and female fitness. Significant differences were observed in fluorescent dye dispersion between robbed and non-obbed flowers within the population. Fluorescent dyes from non-robbed flowers were dispersed to larger distances and over a larger number of flowers when compared with robbed ones. Moreover, significant differences were observed in both fruit set and seed ovule ratios between the two groups, with non-robbed flowers presenting higher reproductive outcomes. However, no effect on seed weight was detected among treatments. The data obtained suggest that in this species, nectar robbing has important indirect and negative effects on plant fecundity, through both male and female functions, due to a modification in the foraging behaviour of legitimate visitors.
20146531|In the forest understorey, shrubs usually reproduce vegetatively rather than sexually, but the relative contribution of these two reproductive modes may vary with temporal changes in environmental conditions (e.g., light, substrates of forest floor) that are closely related to forest dynamics. To evaluate the occasional changes in reproductive modes of the clonal understorey shrub Hydrangea paniculata, the reproductive characteristics (i.e., flowering, seedling establishment, vegetative propagation, reproductive size and age) were investigated in four different developmental stages in a Japanese beech forest (early gap, EG; late gap, LG; building, BU; mature, MA). Flowering individuals occurred only in EG and LG, and a much greater number of seedlings was observed in both EG and LG than in BU and MA, mainly because canopy gaps provided sufficient light for flowering and suitable substrates (fallen trees and exposed mineral-soil) for seedling establishment. The flowering individuals originated from plants that had persisted in the shaded understorey until gap formation. In contrast to sexual reproduction, clonal fragmentation increased with forest development in the order LG, EG, BU, MA. This is because, in later stages of forest dynamics (BU and MA), large individuals, some of which had previously flowered in gap stages, were layered on the forest floor and subsequently produced a substantial number of clonal fragments by separation of the buried branches from the main stems which had decayed. This resulted in a large number of clonal fragments originating from a single mother plant. These results suggest that the reproductive modes of H. paniculata is strongly influenced by the changes in environmental conditions with respect to the dynamics of canopy trees. Reproduction from seed in gap stages, despite their short period, provide new genets in established populations, whereas vegetative propagation via fragmentation in closed-canopy stages enhance the stability of the population until the next disturbance.
20146875|In European beech forests windstorms often create canopy gaps and change the level of incident light, soil moisture and nutrient availability on the forest floor. Understanding the interrelations between gap size and environmental change, and the effects these have on regeneration processes is a prerequisite for developing techniques of nature-based forestry. The aims of this study were to investigate the effects of gap size on the resulting spatial distributions of key abiotic environmental variables (light and soil moisture) in gaps, and to study how light and soil moisture affect the abundance and distribution of herb layer species. To do this we used eight artificially created gaps -- three large (diameter: 35-40 m) and five small (diameter: 10-15 m) -- in a mesotrophic submontane beech forest. Data on species' importance and substrate types were collected in systematically distributed 1 m1 m quadrats before gap creation and on four occasions during the next two growing seasons. Hemispherical photographs were taken and analysed to estimate relative light intensity. Soil moisture was measured by frequency domain and capacitance probes. It was found that gap size had a profound effect on the environmental variables measured. While relative light intensity values in small gaps did not reach those in large gaps, soil moisture levels did reach similar maximum values in gap centres regardless of gap size. Richness, composition and total cover of herbaceous vegetation were different in small versus large gaps. Much of this difference was attributed to the presence of specific relative light intensities and also to the increased amount of available soil moisture in gaps. Species were differently affected by the combined effects of light and soil moisture, as well as by differences in available substrates. All this resulted in species-specific distribution patterns within gaps.
40305667|Biodiversity has been declining in many areas, and there is great interest in determining whether this decline affects ecosystem functioning. Most biodiversity ecosystem functioning studies have focused on the effects of species richness on net primary productivity. However, biodiversity encompasses both species richness and evenness, ecosystem functioning includes other important processes such as decomposition, and the effects of richness on ecosystem functioning may change at different levels of evenness. Here, we present two experiments on the effects of litter species evenness and richness on litter decomposition. In the first experiment, we varied the species evenness (three levels), identity of the dominant species (three species), and micro-topographic position (low points [gilgais] or high points between gilgais) of litter in three-species mixtures in a prairie in Texas, USA. In a second experiment, we varied the species evenness (three levels), richness (one, two, or four species per bag), and composition (random draws) of litter in a prairie in Iowa, USA. Greater species evenness significantly increased decomposition, but this effect was dependent on the environmental context. Higher evenness increased decomposition rates only under conditions of higher water availability (in gilgais in the first experiment) or during the earliest stages of decomposition (second experiment). Species richness had no significant effect on decomposition, nor did it interact with evenness. Micro-topographic position and species identity and composition had larger effects on decomposition than species evenness. These results suggest that the effects of litter species diversity on decomposition are more likely to be manifested through the evenness component of diversity than the richness component, and that diversity effects are likely to be environmentally context dependent.
20146624|The effects of moisture availability on clonal growth and biomass investment in the bamboo Pleioblastus maculata were investigated over a four-year period by transplanting Pleioblastus muculata clones into soils with different levels of moisture availability in the field. The results showed that: (1) The higher the moisture availability, the greater the total biomass of P. maculata clones. Although fewer culms are produced at the higher moisture levels, mean tiller biomass is greater. (2) Under different levels of moisture availability, obvious differences in the total rhizome length (p &lt 0.01), spacer length (p &lt 0.05) and the sizes of bamboo culms (height, p &lt 0.01; diameter, p &lt 0.01) were observed. Thus, the higher the moisture availability, the shorter the rhizomes and the larger ramets. (3) In microhabitats with low moisture availability, bamboo allocated more biomass to underground organs, which promotes elongation of rhizomes and increases root production, thereby helping to capture underground resources essential to growth. In microhabitats of high moisture availability, the biomass is primarily allocated to the aboveground growth of ramets. (4) We suggest that soil moisture availability effects the foraging strategies of bamboo, that bamboo plants growing with low moisture availability produce longer rhizomes (that is, more, although shorter, spacers) with more biomass allocation than plants in high moisture and have a better ability to forage to increase the probability of locating adequate moisture patches. Also, longer length distance between shoots (that is, longer spacers) in high soil moisture than in low is adapted to avoid intense competition from faster growing aboveground growth in high moisture patches.
20051077|A co-ordinated series of field experiments were conducted to consider the effects of elevated UV-B radiation applied directly to decomposing plant litter. Betula pubescens was decomposed under ambient and elevated UV-B (simulating a 15% ozone depletion) using outdoor irradiation facilities at Adventdalen, Norway (78 N), Abisko, Sweden (68 N), Amsterdam, The Netherlands (52 N,) and Patras, Greece (38 N). There was no significant effect of treatment on mass loss for samples collected after 2, 12 and 14 months decomposition at Amsterdam, or after 4 months decomposition at Adventdalen. Significant reductions in the mass loss of litter decomposing under elevated UV-B compared to ambient were found at the other 2 sites. The only effect of treatment on litter chemistry during decomposition was a significant reduction in the N concentration of material at Abisko and a significant increase in C:N at Patras for litter decomposing under elevated UV-B. Significant differences were found in the structure of the fungal community decomposing litter in Sweden, the only site to be tested. These data, and the few published studies of the response of decomposition to UV-B incident on litter suggest that, in the ecosystems and climates that have been studied, such direct effects are typically confined to the initial stages of decomposition, and are rather small in magnitude.
40305603|So far very few experiments have accounted for the combined effect of two phenomena co-occurring in stress gradients: local adaptation to stress and the increase in facilitation with increasing stress (predicted by the stress-gradient hypothesis, SGH). Mountain birch (Betula pubescens subsp. czerepanovii) facilitates conspecific seedlings in subarctic high stress sites and is capable of rapid evolutionary adaptation, being therefore a good model species for a study combining local ecotypes and SGH. A within-species experiment was conducted to test SGH in three stress gradients, detect potential local adaptations between low and high stress populations, and assess their effects on seedling-seedling interactions. Although no evidence for local adaptation was detected, high and low stress populations showed some differentiation, possibly explained by decreasing phenotypic plasticity in high stress conditions and/or neutral evolutionary mechanisms. Weak support for SGH was detected. While facilitation was unaffected by seedling origin, low stress populations showed better competitive ability.
20050567|Comparisons among European, Japanese and North-American temperate deciduous woody floras revealed that there is no difference in shade-tolerance or in successional position between the compound- and simple-leaved species. Given that the compound-leaved species usually have greater biomass investments in non-productive throwaway supporting structures, it remained unclear how they could be as shade-tolerant as the simple-leaved analogues. To find out the role of the variability in leaf structure and composition in shade-tolerance of these species, foliar morphology and chemistry were analysed in 15 Estonian temperate compound-leaved deciduous woody taxa. Both foliar morphological and chemical parameters influenced the fractional investment of foliar biomass in petioles. The proportion of leaf biomass in petioles was independent of leaf size, but it increased with increasing leaflet number per leaf, suggesting that spacing rather than support requirements determined the biomass investment in petioles. The leaves with greater nitrogen concentrations also had larger foliar biomass investments in petioles. The latter effect possibly resulted from a greater water demand of functionally more active protein-rich leaves. Though the proportion of leaf biomass invested in petioles was high (for the whole material on average 15.90.4%), petioles were considerably cheaper to construct in terms of mineral nutrients than leaflets. e.g., petioles contained on average only 5.55  0.14% of total leaf nitrogen. Since in many cases the availability of mineral nutrients such as nitrogen rather than organic carbon sets limits to total leaf biomass on the plant, I suggested, contrary to previous claims, that the costs for foliage formation should not necessarily be different between compound- and simple-leaved species. Compound-leaved species also fit the basic relationships previously observed in simple-leaved analogues. Leaf size increased and leaf dry mass per area (LMA) decreased with increasing shade-tolerance. Thus, more shade-tolerant species construct a more effective foliar display for light interception at low irradiance with similar biomass investment in leaves. Species shade-tolerance was independent of biomass investment in petioles. However, due to the genotypic plasticity in LMA, more shade-tolerant species supported more foliar area at a constant leaf biomass investment in petioles.
20051295|In this article we question whether ecological species groups are appropriate for describing the plant cover of the Netherlands with the aid of a national database containing distribution data of indigenous plant species on a kilometre square basis. To answer the question, a comparison is made with a national division of species into phytosociological groups. On the basis of a correlation analysis performed on the flora database, we conclude that the ecological groups are of better use for the description of the national plant cover than the phytosociological groups.
40926901|Silene sennenii is an extremely narrow endemic species from the north-eastern Iberian Peninsula, with only five populations. Its habitat, severely affected by urban, industrial, and agricultural land use, is highly vulnerable, and makes of S. sennenii, a seriously endangered taxon. Its pollination ecology is studied and compared among populations. Flowers of S. sennenii are distinguished by several morphological and physiological characters, including night emission of scent, which are related to nocturnal pollination. Although visited by insects at night and during day, selective insect exclusion experiments show that this plant is pollinated mainly at night. However, differences among populations are observed in visitation rates and reproductive success, which indicates that the system composed by the plant and its pollinators show evidences of disruption in some populations. The causes and consequences of this disruption are analyzed, with a focus on differences in population size, habitat quality, and genetic diversity. The results are discussed from the perspective of the vulnerability of established mutualisms, and the consequences for the survival of the species.
20146636|Phenological patterns in tropical plants usually are associated with the clear seasonality of rainfall associated with very different wet and dry seasons. In southern Brazil, in a subtropical forest with no pronounced dry season (average annual precipitation = 1389 mm, minimum monthly average c. 75 mm), plant phenology was studied to test for patterns (periodicity), to examine how phenological patterns vary among life-forms, and to test whether phenological cycles are associated with climatic variables. Thirty-seven plant species in four life-forms (trees, shrubs, lianas and epiphytes) were studied for 2 yr (1996-98) in an Araucaria forest remnant in southern Brazil, in the state of Paran. Correlation and multiple regression methods established relationships between phenology and climate in terms of daylength, temperature and rainfall. In this Araucaria forest, plants showed seasonality in most life-forms and phenological phases. Leaf-fall, with its peak during the drier months (April to July), was the most seasonal. Flushing and flowering occurred during the wetter months (September to December), while fruiting occurred all year long. Phenologies varied among life-forms, and were strongly associated with daylength or temperature of preceding months, suggesting that plants receive their phenological cues well in advance of their phenological response. Phenologies in this Araucaria forest appear to be associated with the most predictable and highly correlated of the climatic variables, daylength and temperature and least so with rainfall, which is unpredictable.
40305786|In order to assess the effects of disturbance on soil seed bank spatial structure, variation in seed bank species composition was analyzed at two spatial scales in mature (undisturbed) and recently disturbed stands of Interior Douglas-fir forest in south-central British Columbia. Coarse-scale analysis among stands 10100 km apart using Multi-Response Permutation Procedures showed that individual mature stands were mainly characterized by unique seed bank species compositions. Disturbance had an homogenizing effect on seed bank species composition at the coarse scalethere was less variability among stands following disturbance by both low and high severity fires, and by non-salvage logging. In contrast, finer scale analysis among sampling units c.10 m apart showed that heterogeneity in seed bank species composition was greater on severely burned and logged sites, commensurate with greater levels of soil disturbance, than on lightly burned and undisturbed sites. Despite the high intensity of seed bank sampling (sixty 25 cm soil samples from each of 16 sites), species-area curves leveled off only when infrequent species were removed from the dataset. The number of seed bank samples required to account for the common species ranged from 84 on severely burned sites, to 196 on undisturbed sites; more than the 240 samples collected per disturbance class in this study would have been required to account for the remaining infrequent species. Overall, this study highlights the importance of sampling intensively within multiple stands to capture the variation in species composition inherent to these dry coniferous forest soil seed banks.
40212909|We investigated the influence of Position on a slope (plot relative elevation) and Vegetation disturbance (the tallest tree height per plot) on Community composition and diversity in a SE Brazilian Seasonal Semideciduous Forest (4655' W, 2250' S). Trees with dbh 5 cm were sampled in one hundred 10 x 10 m plots randomly placed in a 6.5-ha stand. Through partial Mantel test, floristic dissimilarities among plots (Jaccard index computed with species abundance in each plot) were correlated with environmental distances among plots (Euclidian distance index computed with relative elevation and the tallest tree height values in each plot). Relative elevation and the tallest tree per plot height were individually correlated with floristic gradients expressed by PCA axes scores using Pearson's correlation coefficient. Through resampling, we compared diversity (richness, Berger-Parker D and Shannon H') among plots in the drier (up) and moister (low) ends of the slope. Floristic dissimilarities were significantly correlated with environmental distances even after geographic distances among plots have been partialled out (
41508659|There are many ways that plants may recover vegetatively from dieback caused by fires. Compared with fire-killed species, the presence of woody resprouters in fire-prone floras increases with fire frequency, though this is affected by site productivity that may have opposing correlates along different gradients. Population recovery is enhanced by resprouting when fecundity is low and/or seedling recruitment is not guaranteed. There is resource cycling between vegetative growth and storage but no clear trade-off between fecundity and storage, and more attention needs to be given to the role of somatic mutations in reducing fecundity. Seven fitness benefits of post-fire resprouting are noted that centre around the rapid return to adult growth rates and early flowering and seed set without the risks of recruitment failure. The extent of resprouting at the individual, population, and species levels varies greatly but it is under genetic control. Recent studies on the evolution of resprouting in fire-prone systems have shown that types of resprouting (clonality, rootstocks, epicormic bud strands) are derived from surrounding parent lineages lacking these traits and confined to nonfire-prone environments. The oldest lineages with firerelated resprouting date to at least 61 million years ago, indicating that seed plants have had a long evolutionary relationship with fire. Various genetic mechanisms, including beneficial somatic mutations, have been invoked to explain how speciation of resprouters may keep pace with non-sprouters.
23500362|Plant community biomass and composition on low-productivity soils, such as serpentine, may be more resistant to climate change because they host stress-tolerant species that may respond slowly to change. These communities also host a number of endemic taxa that are of special interest because of their narrow distributions. In a 3-year study, we experimentally tested the response of serpentine and non-serpentine communities to water addition in spring. We also compared the responses of endemics and generalists to water addition, with and without biomass (competitor) removal. In the non-serpentine grassland, peak biomass was significantly greater in the water addition plots compared with control plots, but this effect depended on the year. In the serpentine grassland, there was no effect of water addition on biomass. Survival, biomass, growth rates, and seed production of soil endemics and generalists were all significantly reduced by competition, but were unaffected by water addition. Overall, endemics tended to perform better in serpentine soil and generalists in non-serpentine soil, suggesting that soil is an important factor for the establishment and survival of endemics and generalists. For endemics, the effect of biomass removal was stronger on non-serpentine soil, but for generalists this effect was similar on both soils, indicating that competition can be important in low-resource habitats. In conclusion, our results suggest that low-fertility plant communities may be slow to respond to changes in precipitation compared to communities on more fertile soil.
20146576|A wide set of phenotypic characteristics related to life history were studied in mature stands of Pinus canariensis throughout its natural range of distribution in the Canary archipelago. Natural forests ranging from those located in xeric areas through to the sub-tropical cloud forests and high mountain stands were classified into eight ecological regions according to their main climatic features. The recent history of forest fires (covering the last 30 years) was taken into account using a categorical factor with three levels. The phenotypic variables studied included those related to seed dispersal (cone size, number of seed scales, seed and wing size and percentage of serotinous trees) and stem growth both on the breast height section (bark thickness, radial growth at various ages and sapwood and heartwood sizes) and on the entire stem (height growth related to age). The average percentage of serotinous trees present in the ecological regions studied varied from 3 to 35%. Average bark thickness in adult trees ranged from 22 to 49 mm and was found to be unrelated to age or diameter. Growth both in height and diameter was found to decline after an average of 25 years, although clear trends in relation to this could not be established across the ecological regions. A high correlation was found to exist between annual rainfall, fire frequency, serotiny and bark thickness at a regional level. Sapwood area per hectare proved to be a valuable indirect site-quality index for the objectives of this paper. Favourable sites (characterised by a high sapwood area per hectare) displayed the highest levels of both bark thickness and serotiny. These particular areas are those, which have suffered more frequent and intense fires over the last decades. The evolutionary implications of this trend and of other general traits of the species, such as vegetative respouting, are discussed here in relation to the role of understorey vegetation in fire regimes, competition and volcanic history of the islands.
20050848|The considerable variability found in post-dispersal seed predation and the absence of consistent directional trends (e.g., with reference to seed size) has made it difficult to predict accurately the impact of seed predators on plant communities. We examined the variation attributable to location, seed density and seed burial on the removal of seeds of three tree species: Fraxinus excelsior, Taxus baccata and Ulmus glabra. Experiments were undertaken in five deciduous woodlands in Durham, U.K., and the relative importance of vertebrate and invertebrate seed predators was assessed using selective exclosures. In all five woodlands, seed removal was greatest from treatments to which vertebrates had access, and losses attributable to invertebrates were negligible. Rodents, in particular Apodemus sylvaticus (Muridae) and Clethrionomys glareolus (Cricetidae), were the principal seed consumers in these woodlands. Unidentified vertebrate seed predators (probably birds, rabbits and/or squirrels) appeared to be significant seed removers in three of the five woodlands. Rates of removal differed among the three tree species, increasing in the following order Fraxinus &lt Taxus &lt Ulmus but were not related to seed mass. The major effect influencing rates of seed removal was seed burial, which halved rates of seed removal overall. The effect of seed burial was a function of seed size. The larger seeds of Taxus realising little benefit from seed burial whereas encounter of the smaller Ulmus seeds fell by almost two-thirds. Removal was density-dependent for all three species. However, the relative increase in seed encounter through an increase in seed density was a negative function of seed size. This suggests that, for large seeds, the opportunity to escape seed predation via burial or reduced seed density is limited. These results reveal a number of parallels with other studies of post-dispersal predation and identify several generalities regarding the interaction between plants and post-dispersal seed predators. Comparison of the seed predation results with actual seedling distributions suggests that seed predators may influence regeneration of Ulmus glabra but probably play a lesser role in the dynamics of Taxus baccata and Fraxinus excelsior.
24553706|The past and present regeneration of Siberian larch (Larix sibirica) was studied in the forest-steppe of the Mongolian Altai, an area which has experienced an increase in annual mean temperature by 2.1 C since 1940 and is subjected to grazing by mixed herds of livestock owned by pastoral nomads. Past regeneration was reconstructed from tree rings and present regeneration was analyzed by surveying seedlings, sapling-sized trees and the occurrence of viable larch seeds in the soil seed bank. Forest regeneration occurred throughout the twentieth and the early twenty-first centuries in the forest interiors, but ceased after the late 1970s at forest edges. The density of sapling-sized larch trees decreased with livestock density linearly in the interior and exponentially at the edge. Most sapling-sized trees had visible damage from livestock browsing, which also manifested in wood-anatomical anomalies. By contrast, the densities of 1- and 2-year old seedlings increased with livestock density at the forest edge, suggesting that seedlings in this habitat benefitted from the reduction in competition intensity due to livestock grazing. This relationship also suggests that larch seedlings, in contrast to sapling-sized trees, were avoided by the livestock, as otherwise removal by the herbivores should have counteracted the promotion due to reduced competition. Near-consistency of the correlations of total livestock and goat densities with sapling and seedling densities suggests that the control of larch regeneration is primarily a function of goat density, which have tripled in the Mongolian livestock during the past 20 years for economic reasons.
20146863|In this study we examined seed supply (seed banks and seed rain) and vegetation of seeded cultivated grasses and naturally occurring native grasses following a wildfire in northern New Mexico, USA. We specifically examined density of native and cultivated grass seeds and plants in areas of high, moderate, and low fire severity. We also examined the similarity between density of native and cultivated grass seeds to density of above ground plants. Density of native grass seed per square meter was higher in areas that burned under low fire severity (85.18  44.83) compared to areas of moderate (18.52  11.26) and high (7.41  4.90) fire severity; however, differences were not statistically significant due, in part, to the high error associated with estimates. Density of cultivated grass seed per square meter was higher than that of native grass seed in areas of high (439.60  117.98) and moderate (437.02  146.50) fire severity, areas that were seeded with cultivated grasses after the wildfire for erosion control. Density of seeded grass plants per square meter was also higher than that of native grass plants in areas of high (18.78  4.59 versus 0.33  0.24) and moderate (8.22  1.76 versus 0.22  0.15) fire severity. There was a higher correspondence between the density of cultivated grass seeds and plants (highest value 0.32  0.11) compared to density of native grass seeds and plants (highest value 0.05  0.04). The high density of seeds, plants, and correspondence indicated that seeds from cultivated grasses are more likely to establish as post-fire vegetation than seeds from native grasses. Seeding with cultivated grasses following a wildfire may slow or inhibit recovery of native grasses in the short term. Longer-term implications for site occupancy deserve further study.
20050775|This paper investigates of the spatial arrangement of individual plants in mapped plots in two desert communities in the winter rainfall region of South Africa. In both communities there was a very strong tendency towards clumped patterns when all plants were considered together. There was also a predominance of clumped patterns when the most abundant species in both communities were considered individually. When the arrangement of the most abundant species was considered relative to the arrangement of all other individuals at the within-clump scale, there was a high frequency of positive associations in both communities (62% and 65%). We speculate that these patterns represent a combination of seed dispersal strategies that favour clumped patterns and a predominance of positive interactions between plants in both of the communities. When specific pairwise associations between the most abundant species were considered at the within-clump scale, differences were apparent between the two communities. In the short strandveld community neutral associations predominated, while in the medium strandveld, neutral and positive association accounted for equal proportions of the associations. This between-plot difference was also apparent when the volumes of plants were related to an index of neighbourhood competitiveness. In the short strandveld there were no significant relationships while in the medium strandveld there were some weak (but significant) relationships. These differences were not altogether unexpected. If we assume that plants in the medium strandveld are generally longer-lived, then interactions between plants are likely to develop over a longer time and, therefore, are likely to be stronger.
20051192|A recent conceptual model of controls on vegetation structure in semiarid regions includes the hypothesis that the balance between the dominance of woody and herbaceous species is partly controlled by soil texture. The model predicts that the dominance of woody plants is associated with coarse textured soils, and that ecotones between woody and herbaceous plant functional types are associated with soil textural changes. We analyzed vegetation and soil data (from US Soil Conservation Service maps) for an area of shortgrass steppe in Northern Weld County, Colorado, in a canonical correlation procedure to test the hypothesis at a regional scale. In support of the model, we found significant correlations between (a) a canonical vegetation variable correlated with C grass biomass and shrub biomass, and a canonical soil variable correlated with sandy topsoils, and (b) a canonical vegetation variable correlated with succulent biomass, and a canonical soil variable correlated with clay soils. Relatively sharp transitions between shrub- and grass-dominated vegetation types occur in a number of areas in the shortgrass steppe of northeastern Colorado and southeastern Wyoming, and we selected four sites to test the above hypothesis at a local scale. We gathered data on vegetation cover and soil texture from transects (50 m long) positioned across the transition zones from grassland to shrubland. We conducted a further canonical correlation analysis of the vegetation and soil data to test for the relationships between vegetation structure and soil texture, and a performed regression analyses on individual site data to describe site-specific relationships between vegetation and soil texture variables. Vegetation structure along the transects, at the level of plant functional types, was similar at all four sites. The transition from grassland to shrubland encompassed a change from a C grass/half-shrub complex to a shrub/C grass/succulent complex. At two of the sites these transitions were associated with a change to coarser-textured soils in the shrubland zone. Within the context of the shortgrass steppe, our overall findings support the predictions of the conceptual at a regional scale, but indicate that soil texture is only one factor that can influence vegetation structure at the local scale.
20050715|The hypothesis that high and low intensity human-made fires can produce ecologically different effects in the Chilean matorral is examined. We compared the abundance of naturally established seedlings under shrubs burned by low and high intensity fires on five north and five south facing slopes. On south facing slopes, we found 54 shrubs burned by low intensity fires and only 4 shrubs burned by high intensity fires. In contrast, north facing slopes had approximately the same number of shrubs burned by low and high fire intensity fires (24 versus 19, respectively). We only found seedlings under shrubs burned by low intensity fires and most of them were of Muehlenbeckia hastulata and Trevoa trinervis. Also viable seeds were only found under shrubs burned by low intensity fires. Results indicate that fire intensity can be an important factor determining species distribution patterns in the matorral.
41508694|Deciduous, semideciduous and evergreen leaf phenological groups of Cerrado trees were studied using a representative network composed of nodes and links to uncover the structural traits of the crown. A node denotes the origin of a branch, and a link represents the branch emerging from a lateral bud. The network representation usually resulted in a graph with three links per node and twice as many links as nodes for each leaf phenological group. It was possible to identify four kinds of nodes according to the position and the number of links: initial, regular, emission and final nodes. The numbers of links and nodes and the distance between two kinds of nodes decreased from evergreen to deciduous species. A crown with a few nodes and links and a short distance between the kinds of nodes could facilitate the unfolding of foliage on leafless branches at the end of the dry season in deciduous trees. In contrast, foliage persistence in evergreens could facilitate the mass flow to new leaves produced during the entire year in a crown with a high number of links and nodes and with a large distance between nodes. There is a clear interdependence between the degree of leaf deciduousness and the crown structural traits in Cerrado tree species. Therefore, there are functional groups of trees in Cerrado vegetation that are characterized by a set of structural traits in the crown, which is associated with leaf deciduousness.
40305473|Size and age structures of stand populations of numerous tree species exhibit uneven or reverse J-distributions that can persist after noncatastrophic disturbance, especially windstorms. Among disjunct populations of conspecific trees, alternative distributions are also possible and may be attributed to more localized variation in disturbance. Regional differences in structure and demography among disjunct populations of sand pine (Pinus clausa (Chapm. ex Engelm.) Vasey ex Sarg.) in the Florida panhandle and peninsula may result from variation in hurricane regimes associated with each of these populations. We measured size, age, and growth rates of trees from panhandle and peninsula populations and then compiled size and age class distributions. We also characterized hurricanes in both regions over the past century. Size and age structures of panhandle populations were unevenly distributed and exhibited continuous recruitment; peninsula populations were evenly sized and aged and exhibited only periodic recruitment. Since hurricane regimes were similar between regions, historical fire regimes may have been responsible for regional differences in structure of sand pine populations. We hypothesize that fires were locally nonexistent in coastal panhandle populations, while periodic high intensity fires occurred in peninsula populations over the past century. Such differences in local fire regimes could have resulted in the absence of hurricane effects in the peninsula. Increased intensity of hurricanes in the panhandle and current fire suppression patterns in the peninsula may shift characteristics of sand pine stands in both regions.
20146755| With the proliferation of old fields and the decline of native grasslands in North America, non-indigenous grasses, which tend to colonize and dominate North American old fields, have become progressively more abundant. These new grasses can differ from native grasses in a number of ways, including root and shoot morphology (e.g., density of root mat, height of shoots), growth phenology (e.g., cool season vs. warm season growth), and plant-soil-water relations due to differences in photosynthetic physiology (C vs. C). Woody plants have been slow to colonize some old fields in the prairie-forest border area of North America and it is hypothesized that non-indigenous grasses may be contributing to the poor establishment success of woody plants in this region, possibly through more intense competition for resources. To test this hypothesis, a multi-factorial field experiment was conducted in which water, nitrogen, and grass functional group (non-indigenous C and native C species) were manipulated in a study of survival of oak seedlings. The grass type variously affected some of the different growth measurements, however, the effects of grass type on seedling growth were small compared to the effects on seedling survival. The results showed that when grown under dry conditions, seedlings growing in non-indigenous grasses experienced up to a 50% reduction in survival compared to those growing in native grasses under the same conditions. Analyses of root and shoot competition showed that the cause for the reduced survival in the non-indigenous grasses was due primarily to underground processes. The findings confirmed our initial hypothesis that non-indigenous grasses are likely contributing to the poor establishment success of woody plants in these old fields. However, the explanation for the reduced oak seedling survival in non-indigenous grasses does not appear to be due to reduced resource availability since soil water levels did not differ between non-indigenous and native grass plots and other resource levels measured (light, NO, and NH) were higher in non-indigenous grass plots under dry conditions. An alternative explanation is that the non-indigenous grasses modify the soil environment in ways that, under dry conditions, are deleterious to emerging oak seedlings. Since current climate projections for the upper Midwest are for hotter and drier summers, the results suggest that the resistance of these old fields to oak encroachment will likely increase in the future. 
24553724|In dry-summer seasonal climates, the beginning of the rainy season can prompt germination under different temperatures, depending on altitude. Understanding germination responses to temperature with altitude is important in fire-prone environments for species regenerating after fire from seeds (seeders), particularly under changing climate. Here we investigated the role of temperature in four Mediterranean seeder shrubs from Central Spain. Seeds from 17 sites (2851,253 m altitude), of two hard-seeded nanophanerophytes (Cistus ladanifer and C. salviifolius) and two soft-seeded chamaephytes (Lavandula pedunculata and Thymus mastichina) were investigated. Intact and heat shock treated seeds were set to germinate under four temperature regimes, including a treatment simulating future warming. GLM with binomial or gamma functions were used to test treatment effects using altitude as a covariate. Altitude was a significant covariate only in L. pedunculata. Temperature did not affect final germination in either Cistus, but it significantly affected T. mastichina, and interacted with altitude in L. pedunculata, whereby the higher the altitude the less it germinated with decreasing temperature. Germination speed (T50) was lower at colder temperatures in all but C. salviifolius that was insensitive to our treatments. Heat shock significantly increased final germination in both Cistus and T. mastichina, but did not interact with temperature or altitude. We conclude that germination response to temperature, including varying sensitivity with altitude, differed among these species; thus, changes in the timing of the onset of the rainy season will diversely affect populations at various altitudes. We discuss our results in a context of changing climate and fire.
20146834|We performed an irrigation experiment to study the impact of summer drought on Pinus sylvestris establishment at its southernmost distribution limit. Watering was done during the first growing season simulating mesic summer conditions, and we monitored the consequences for survival and growth during the first growing season and the delayed consequences on the second growing season. In addition, we considered the heterogeneity created by the microhabitats where seeds are found after dispersal (bare soil, under shrubs, and under adult pines). Summer drought was the main mortality factor in all the microhabitats. Watering increased emergence and doubled seedling survival compared to non-watered control sites. Differences were even higher when the cumulative effect on emergence and survival was considered, with an overall recruitment of 22.4% in watered plots vs. 7.9% in control. Irrigation increased growth in bare soil and under shrubs, but had scant effect on growth under pines, suggesting that radiation was the limiting factor in this microhabitat. The positive effect of irrigation on growth parameters persisted during the second growing season despite water was not added the second year, showing delayed consequences of drought on seedling performance. Summer drought thus limits Pinus sylvestris establishment in these southernmost forests by reducing both recruitment and growth. This might lead to the development of a remnant dynamic in these relict populations under the current regional increase in dryness and rainfall variability associated with global warming.
20146808|In East Germany, a high percentage of species-rich, semi-natural dry grasslands has been converted into species-poor communities dominated either by Poa angustifolia or Festuca rupicola. The disappearance of low-intensity types of agricultural land-use such as mowing and grazing has been the cause for the decline of many grassland species, as lack of biomass extraction leads to a new situation in competition. Here we evaluate the performance of the rare forb Campanula glomerata in competition with P. angustifolia and F. rupicola using a replacement design experiment. C. glomerata responded to the presence of these grass species in contrasting ways: whereas the presence of P. angustifolia had a negative effect on C. glomerata biomass and fitness, the presence of F. rupicola affected the forb in a positive way. The results of an additional sowing experiment revealed that the germination and establishment rates of C. glomerata decrease in accordance with increasing density of P. angustifolia. Thus the response of this rare forb varies among neighbour species.
20146412|We studied the distribution and abundance of three epiphytic Bromeliaceae (Tillandsia dasyliriifolia, T. califanii, and T. recurvata), in two different vegetation associations ('izotal', 'cardonal') in the Zapotitln Valley, Puebla, Mxico. We quantified all bromeliads considering their size (height and basal diameter), as well as their spatial orientation considering height from the ground, the distance to the center of the tree, and orientation on the host tree. At the 'Izotal', the epiphytes on Beaucarnea gracilis (Nolinaceae) exhibited a clumped distribution pattern. Whereas in the 'Cardonal', epiphytes use columnar cacti (Cephalocereus columna trajani) for support, are more scarce, exhibit smaller size (height), and fewer number of clumps. The distribution of T. dasyliriifolia and T. califanii is influenced by the distribution of their two main hosts, while T. recurvata might be randomly distributed. The distribution of Tillandsia individuals on Beaucarnea plants was quite characteristic: (i) T. recurvata was mostly SW oriented, on the lower strata (2.50-3.59 m) and very close (0-0.59 cm) to the center of the phorophyte; (ii) T. dasyliriifolia was mostly SE oriented, on the low strata, and close to the center of the phorophyte (0.60-1.19 m); and (iii) T. califanii was mostly NE oriented, on low strata, and very close to the center of the phorophyte. The spatial distribution among species depends on different ecological aspects and/or their preferences for humidity, temperature and light that enable their establishment.
20051106|Seed banks were investigated in a grassland dominated by Agrostis capillaris and Thlaspi caerulescens, established on soils polluted by atmospheric deposits of SO and heavy-metal rich dust (Zn, Pb, Cd) from an oresmelter in Prayon (E Belgium). A total of 155 soil cores (0-7 cm depth) distributed among 10 plots were sampled in November and March. Each sampling plot was characterised for the botanical composition and standing biomass of the established vegetation as well as for four environmental parameters (soil pH and extractable zinc, volume percentage of stones, relative altitude within the site). Very high densities of germinable seeds were found (grand mean  SE, pooled over dates and plots: 28,950  6830 seeds
23500349|Changes in landscape structure and environmental conditions due to habitat fragmentation can have significant effects on plant populations. Decreasing genetic diversity and changing population structure can reduce plant fitness and influence the longterm persistence of populations. Dry calcareous grasslands in Estonia have witnessed a large decline in area within the last 80 years, but due to extinction debt, the species richness in these grasslands has not yet responded to this decline. In these calcareous grasslands, we studied genetic diversity, phenotypic performance and population characteristics of a common habitat-specialist grass, Briza media. A decrease in genetic diversity was associated with a decrease in plant reproductive output. In addition, we found that some fitness components of B. media showed a delayed response to landscape changes. Specifically, plant height and germination success were related to historical rather than to current landscape parameters, indicating a time-lagged response of plant performance to habitat fragmentation. Dependence on historical landscape structure may thus result in a future decline in population fitness even if habitat loss and fragmentation no longer continue. The documented effect of current environmental conditions, however, shows that fitness-related traits are already slowly adapting to the changing conditions. Our results indicate that even common habitat-specialist species can be susceptible to landscape changes and be threatened by decreased population performance in the future.
40212885|Lowland forests in Central Kalimantan, Indonesian Borneo, are endangered by land conversion and the increasing frequency of severe drought. Knowledge of the tolerance of tropical trees to drought is urgent for the management of these lowland habitats. The shortterm effects of drought on tree demography (mortality and growth) were investigated in an ever-wet riparian peat-swamp forest and a heath forest on coarse sandy soil after the 1997 El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) event. This drought was unusually severe because little rain fell during the following rainy season. However, forest- wide mortality following the drought (1997-1999) was not critically high in the peat-swamp (6.13% yr) or heath (4.26% yr) forest. In both forests, standing trees frequently died during the dry season following the drought. The riparian peat-swamp forest was not flooded until 1998, after the prolonged drought in 1997. The hummock-hollow microtopography resulted in differential mortality of peat-swamp trees. On tall hummocks, standing death increased two-fold (4.99% yr) during the dry season, whereas uprooting decreased by onethird (0.85% yr) during the following rainy season. In contrast, tree growth was not affected by hummock height. Common canopy species were concentrated on tall hummocks and died standing more often than did understory species found in hollows, indicating species-specific mortality after the drought. The large stand basal area relative to the forest-wide growth rate in diameter suggested less resilience to drought by peat-swamp (45.6 m ha and 0.0186 ln[cm] yr) than heath (27.9 m ha and 0.0232 ln[cm] yr) forest. A single severe drought did not cause dramatic changes in the peat-swamp and heath forests; however, an increasing frequency of droughts similar in severity to that of the 1997 ENSO event may have the potential to alter the community structure and dynamics, leading to a consistent decline in Bornean lowland forests.
20050849|We studied the variations in different physiological parameters associated with UV-B radiation defense: UV-B radiation absorbance, UV-visible spectral reflectance, carotenoids concentration, leaf thickness, SLW (specific leaf weigth) and trichome density in Quercus ilex growing at 200 and 1200 m and Rhododendron ferrugineum growing at 2200 m. We examined the role of these parameters as protection mechanisms in an altitudinal gradient of increasing UV radiation in northern Catalonia and in sun and shade leaves. The concentration of UV-B radiation absorbing pigments was 15% higher in sun leaves of Q. ilex at 1200 m than in those from 200 m altitude. Sun leaves of R. ferrugineum presented concentrations three times higher than those of Q. ilex. Reflectance ranged between 5% (in the region 300-400 nm) and 12% (in the region 280-300 nm). The variation of reflectance with altitude followed an inverse trend respect to absorbance in the 280-300 nm region, with higher values the lower the altitude, but in the 300-400 nm region, reflectance of the lower site was the lowest. In both species and altitudes sun leaves presented higher concentrations of UV-B radiation absorbing pigments and UV reflectance than shade leaves. Quercus ilex trees of the higher location presented higher NDPI (Normalized Difference Pigment Reflectance Index) values, indicating higher carotenoids/chlorophyll a ratio. Actual measurements of carotenoid/chlorophyll a ratio confirmed this pattern. The photochemical reflectance index (PRI) presented higher values the higher the location indicating lower photosynthetic radiation-use efficiency. Specific leaf weight (SLW) and leaf thickness were larger in Q. ilex trees of higher location than in those of lower location. In both sites, sun leaves also presented larger SLW values than shade leaves. Adaxial leaf hair density in sun leaves was significantlly higher in the lower location. UV absorption and linked morphological traits (SLW, leaf thickness measured in Q. ilex) presented the larger differences among studied plants at different altitudes and seem to be the dominant UV protecting mechanisms.
40802518|Biological invasions are regarded as one of the main drivers of habitat degradation in island ecosystems. Mediterranean islands have been subjected to a high degree of land conversion over the past 60 years, resulting in a massive reduction in the amount of rural land and the sprawl of tourist activities. The aims of this paper are to evaluate the current level of invasion of alien plant species in semi-natural vegetation types that have developed after the abandonment of agriculture and to analyze the relationships between non-native species, native flora, and environmental characteristics. Two Italian islands (Ponza and Ventotene) were surveyed using a random-stratified sampling. The occurrence and relative cover of alien plant species were compared and separate analyses were performed for the native flora. Abundance patterns of both native and alien species were then studied in the light of the environmental and anthropogenic features. Although we found that some non-native species are extremely widespread, their relative cover at the plot level is low. Permutational Multivariate Analysis of Variance and Indicator Species Analysis revealed dissimilarities in the native species composition, while Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests showed differences in the ecological requirements (moisture, soil reaction, and nitrogen) of the native species pool. Canonical Correspondence Analysis pointed to the importance of the proximity to agricultural areas, human disturbance, and past land management, particularly residual terraces, in determining the difference between plant communities on the two islands. The results of our study suggest that traditional forms of agriculture may represent a key element for countering the establishment and spread of non-native plants in Mediterranean areas.
40305536|The genetic and fitness consequences of habitat fragmentation on the dry grassland species Anthericum liliago L. (Anthericaceae) were examined. We used random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to determine the distribution of genetic diversity within and among 10 German A. liliago populations, ranging in size from 116 to over 2 million ramets. The genetic diversity of an A. liliago population was highly positively correlated with its population size. The overall differentiation among populations (Phi-ST = 0.41, P < 0.0001, AMOVA) was considerably higher than expected for a species with a mixed breeding system. No strong correlation (P < 0.01) was detected between fitness parameters and population size and genetic diversity. The reproductive output (seeds per ramet) was only highly correlated {P < 0.001) with the proportion of flowering ramets in a population which could be caused by a more effective pollination in large populations which are more attractive to specialized pollinators. The specialized A. liliago pollinator Merodon rufus (Syrphidae) and high abundances of solitary bees could only be found in A. liliago populations with more than 10,000 individuals. Genetic differentiation among the investigated A. liliago populations may have been caused by limited seed and pollen dispersal and a mixed mating system permitting a high selfing rate. The differentiation among the small and isolated populations lacking main pollinators seems to be caused by genetic drift.
20146354|Fire often increases the productivity of perennial tussock grasslands in mesic environments but can reduce growth for one or more growing seasons in arid and semi-arid environments. We examined effects of single-burns on growth and nutrient content of grasslands in sub-tropical, northwestern Australia. These grasslands were dominated by Themeda triandra, a species often managed by regular burning in wetter temperate and tropical zones. Burns were in the late dry season and were replicated using small plots (5  5-m) within fenced areas at two sites. Total projective cover and aboveground biomass were significantly less in burnt plots relative to controls for 2.5 years after burning despite four growing seasons, including the first summer, of above-average rainfall. Recovery of burnt plots was hindered by an extended dry period in the second year, demonstrating that rainfall in subsequent seasons can be as important as rainfall in the first season in determining post-burn productivity of grasslands in semi-arid environments. Greater decreases in grass cover in burnt plots during the extended dry period may have been due to less standing dead and litter than controls, and therefore less insulation from extreme summer temperatures, although relationships between cover changes and cover at the start of the period were weak. With the exception of increased pH near grass tussocks, burning had little effect on chemical characteristics of surface soils in the first week. Concentrations of N, and particularly P, in aboveground plant material were greater in burnt plots four months after burning, following summer rains, but were either less than or similar to those in controls with increasingly dry conditions. Significantly lower concentrations of P in green foliage from burnt plots during dry seasons, when uptake from soil pools would be minimal, indicated that burning decreased P retranslocation from plant stores. However, we found no evidence that single-burns increased nutrient limitations to growth because plant contents of N and P were comparable in burnt and control plots during periods of adequate water supply. Our data support previous generalizations that prescribed burning of perennial tussock grasslands in semi-arid environments is mostly unnecessary because putative benefits of increased productivity and forage quality, characteristic of more mesic environments, were not realized.
20050979|Microbiotic crusts are a common and widespread feature of arid and semi-arid landscapes. Their effect on vascular plant success has been discussed controversially. However, only very few field studies have yet tried to experimentally investigate the effect of microbiotic crusts on vascular plant establishment. In this study we investigate the influence of cyanobacteria dominated microbiotic soil surface crust on vascular plants in a desert sand dune area by using a series of manipulative experiments. Crusts were disturbed and removed and density response to these treatments was monitored during the two following years. Emergence densities of vascular plants were considerably higher when crusts were removed and destroyed. This effect was particularly pronounced when the disturbances were applied before the main seed dispersal period. By experimentally preventing seed dispersal into disturbed areas we could show that undisturbed crusts reduce the probability for seeds to come to rest. This indicates that soil surface roughness is a major determinant for the establishment of vascular plants in the study area. We conclude that small-scale and well-timed disturbances of microbiotic crusts in arid lands may increase vascular plant establishment probabilities. A potential feedback process of long-term vegetation dynamics is suggested: disturbance of microbiotic crusts results in higher numbers of emerging plants, which in turn represent a rough seed-trapping element leading to a further increase in densities in consecutive years.
40607004|The risk of spreading of alien species to protected forest habitats through recreational horseback riding was experimentally investigated at Oulanka National Park, north-eastern Finland during 2002-2005. Levels of disturbance, horse manure and seed rain of dwarf shrubs were manipulated in genuine boreal forest habitat. Specifically we asked (i) whether the seeds of alien species can be dispersed to natural forests by horse manure and (ii) whether disturbance in soils and vegetation increases the density of alien species and decrease the density of native species. Manure addition introduced seeds of graminoid and forb species, which were absent elsewhere in the study area. Establishment of the alien species was further enhanced by the disturbance treatment. Germination of natural shrub species was enhanced by disturbance treatment, whereas manure addition had little impact on the native shrubs. The results indicate that alien species may be introduced to natural forests through recreational horse riding, if horses are fed by hay that contains germinable seeds. Soil disturbance enhances the germination of seeds. In practice, the risk of alien species to the biodiversity of natural forests may be relatively small due to the lack of continuous disturbance in these habitats. Instead, the greatest risk is caused by the possibility of alien species to spread via trails to neighbouring, extremely sensitive open habitats.
20146372|Most studies of observer discrepancies in vegetation recording have been limited in the extent to which they can separate different sources of error. It is straightforward to quantify the degree of disparity between two species lists but not clear how to allocate a particular discrepancy to a specific cause. Misidentification is especially difficult to detect, and is rarely discussed in the literature. The vegetation monitoring protocol devised by the United Kingdom Environmental Change Network (ECN) splits each plot to be recorded into cells, within each of which a species list is compiled. This provides an objective measure of the frequency of occurrence of individual species, in place of the more subjective estimation of cover, and allows within-plot variation to be quantified. An added advantage of the ECN methodology is that botanical expertise and the use of cells can be combined in quality assurance (QA) studies to detect instances of consistent misidentification of species, thereby increasing the repeatability of vegetation recording and enhancing the possibility of detecting change. This paper reports an analysis of the data obtained from a 1996 ECN QA exercise and describes the methods used to pinpoint the most likely sources of discrepancies between the original site surveys and the QA survey. Overall it is estimated that 5.9% of specimens were misidentified at species level and 1.9% at genus level, though it is detectable that sites employing consultant surveyors achieved slightly better results. Misidentification rates are particularly high for the lower plants and for woodland plots. The number of unmatched records (the pseudoturnover rate) is high, 24%, but comparable to other studies. This does not seem to be the result, to any great extent, of seasonal changes or identification problems, but appears to be largely due to overlooking and partly a result of relocation problems. The overall percentage agreement between surveyors was 57%, also comparable with other studies.
20050511|The vascular flora of pedologically conditioned, extensive dry grasslands occurring in a very rainy area of north-eastern Italy, was submitted to phytogeographic analysis. The distributional ranges of 144 species were digitized into two presence-absence matrices of species and Operational Geographic Units (quadrants), one covering Europe, the other, limited to 56 species with extra-European distributions, extended to the Northern Hemisphere north of the Tropic of Cancer. These matrices were submitted to numerical classification, obtaining clusters of species with similar distributional patterns (chorotypes). For each cluster of species, the percent occurrencies in each quadrant were processed by a program of automatic mapping, producing a series of isoporic maps showing the joint distribution of the species of each cluster. The species can be subdivided into six main phytogeographical groups: (1) Narrow-ranging (34% of the total), including the endemic, subendemic, Illyrian-Balcanic and NW submediterranean elements, (2) Southern European-Submediterranean (18.8%), (3) Wide-ranging European (16.6%), (4) Eastern-Pontic (7.6%), (5) Southern Eurasiatic (10.5%), (6) Northern Eurasiatic (12.5%). The phytogeographic originality of the investigated grasslands is high, with more than one third of the species having narrow distributional ranges. Particularly relevant are the connections with the Balkanic-Illyrian and the eastern Alpine regions.
20050681|The effects of grazing by livestock on plant species composition and spatial distribution have been studied at Sador, Niger. Herbaceous species were recorded in plots of increasing size from 1/64 to 1024 m in ten fallow plots subjected to five different grazing treatments over the previous three years. Treatments consisted of three intensities of grazing, and of protection from grazing for either 3 or 14 years. For all treatments, the number of species fitted a normal distribution with the log (ln) of the area inventoried. However, the fit improved slightly when the model included two successive log-normal distributions respectively considered as species distribution within a patch and at the patch mosaic scale. Across treatments, the optimal sampling areas averaged 3.8  1.1 m for the within-patch and 725  113 m for the mosaic scale distributions. It is argued that similarity between treatments in the overall log-normal distribution resulted from compensations between the divergent trends that affected species distribution within and across patches depending on the grazing status. Long-term protection resulted in a regular spatial arrangement of highly contrasted, but internally homogeneous patches. Heavy grazing ensued the dominance of a few species in contagious patches but also left niches for scattered individuals of other species. Tests of the relative frequency of each plant species, together with the average area needed to record that species, were used to characterize specific response to grazing. A majority of species encountered in old Sahelian fallows were either fostered by grazing, indifferent or tolerant to grazing. However, more than a third of the species appeared sensitive to heavy grazing, and no relationships were found between species response to grazing and palatability.
20146410|There are many examples of mutualistic interactions between ants and plants bearing extrafloral nectaries (EFN). The annual legume Chamaecrista nictitans (Caesalpineaceae) secretes nectar from EFN, specialized structures that attract ants, spiders, and other arthropods. The effects of manipulated C. nictitans patch size and location on plant-ant interactions were tested. Defense from herbivores was not detected; plants with ants did not set significantly more fruit or seed than plants with ants excluded. On the contrary, in one year, plants without ants set more fruit and seed than C. nictitans with ants. The cause of this was not determined. Furthermore, insect herbivore damage was low during three years of observations. Sennius cruentatus (Bruchidae), a specialist seed predator beetle, escaped ant defense despite the presence of numerous ants. Beetle progeny are protected during development by living inside maturing C. nictitans fruit and preventing fruits from dehiscing before emerging as adults. Although ants reduced percent of infestation in 1995, the total number of S. cruentatus per plant was not affected by ants in years of infestation. Overall, larger experimental C. nictitans patches attracted more ants, parasitoid wasps, and percent infestation by S. cruentatus while insect herbivores declined with increasing patch size. Location of patches within fields, however, did not affect numbers of arthropod visitors. Similar to manipulated populations, very little insect herbivory occurred in four reference populations. In contrast to the experimental populations, no S. cruentatus were recovered in reference populations of C. nictitans. Herbivory by insects may not always depress seed set by C. nictitans or may not exceed a threshold level. Thus, herbivory-reduction by ants may not have been detectable in these results. Seed predation may be more influential on C. nictitans reproduction.
40212950|Climatic seasonality, local habitat quality, and edge effects created by forest fragmentation due to human activity may affect the performance of endangered rain forest understory herbs. Viability and seasonal dynamics of the populations of the endangered Saintpaulia confusa, S. difficilis, and S. grotei were studied in a protected seasonal submontane forest in NE Tanzania by examining plant life-history traits, population stage structure, and the effects of habitat quality on plant performance. The population stage structures were of the dynamic type. There was a lower frequency of seedlings (57.9%) and higher frequency of juvenile (13.3%) and adult plants (28.8%) in S. confusa than in S. difficilis (74%, 10.7% and 15.3%, respectively). Seedling recruitment occurred from May to August with an average of 54, 103 and 38 emerged seedlings per 1 m study plot (S. confusa, S. difficilis, and S. grotei, respectively). Presence of the seed bank was also an indication of the regeneration potential of the populations. Mortality was high during the dry and hot season from December to March. Survival was lowest in juvenile plants, higher in sterile adult plants and the highest in fertile adult plants. Because survival was the lowest on dry substrates under open canopy, our data suggest that forest fragmentation, by reducing shade and humidity, will increase mortality in Saintpaulia. Furthermore, since the mortality was highest in seedlings and juveniles, forest fragmentation is likely to impede the regeneration of the Saintpaulia populations.
20051248|The ongoing increase in atmospheric CO concentration ([CO]) is likely to change the species composition of plant communities. To investigate whether growth of a highly invasive plant species, Centaurea solstitialis (yellow starthistle), was affected by elevated [CO], and whether the success of this species would increase under CO enrichment, I grew the species in serpentine soil microcosms, both as a monoculture and as a component of a grassland community. Centaurea grown in monoculture responded strongly to [CO] enrichment of 350 mol
40802517|There is an emerging interest in analyzing the effects of seed prdation and its consequences for plant recruitment across the landscape. The main goals of this study were to assess (1) whether seed prdation varies among spatial levels of the landscape, (2) whether there are differences between preand post-dispersal seed prdation and, (3) whether these differences are due to different animal species with different perception of the landscape and thus different activity ranges. The study system was a mosaic landscape composed of patches of different vegetation types (oak and pine woodlands and shrublands) and microhabitats intermingled. Pre-dispersal acorn prdation varied between patches, trees, and predator species. Wild boar rooting activity was widely distributed through the landscape and mainly focused on pine woodlands while rodents 7 feeding activity was mainly centered on local scales within oak woodland patches. The patch spatial level consistently appears to be the key explanatory variable for pre-and post-dispersal acorn predation. Furthermore, the post-dispersal percentage of seed predation and emergence also differed among spatial levels. Within the same vegetation type, different microhabitats did not show significant differences in rates of survival to acorn predation and then on germination or emergence. These results suggest that seed predators influence the spatial patterns of Quercus ilex populations by reshaping the seed shadow within the landscape, mainly by differences among patches. So, the landscape appears to behave as a mixed mosaic with valuable patches for plant recruitment (with low seed prdation) intermingled with bad quality patches where the dispersed seeds more often disappear and thus, the recruitment fails.
40666624|The flower heliotropism of Anemone rivularis (Ranunculaceae) was investigated on the Yulong Snow Mountain, near Lijiang in the northwest of the Yunnan province of China. We discovered that tepals in this species drive the peduncles to track the sun, and that this flower heliotropism was likely an adaptation for parental environmental effects on reproductive fitness. In brief, A. rivularis flowers retained sun-tracking behavior following removal of pistils and stamens, but lost heliotropic movement, if tepals were removed. Light is the major factor to affect floral heliotropism, the tepal-received light signal was in the blue frequency. Meanwhile, the peduncles were found to bend significantly on the top portion of both control flowers and those lacking pistils and stamens, but instead of keeping a vertical peduncle orientation in flowers with tepals removed. Furthermore, the floral temperature was steadier, and seed sizes and numbers were greater for control flowers than for flowers with tepals removed. Therefore, we conclude that the tepals trigger the flower heliotropism in A. rivularis and play an important role on not only increasing but also keeping optimal thermal condition of flower interior. We further conclude that flower heliotropism enhances the pollen viability and seed production, resulting in higher reproductive success for this alpine species.
20050919|In many temporary wetlands such as those on the Northern Tablelands of New South Wales Australia, the development of plant communities is largely the result of germination and establishment from a long-lived, dormant seed bank, and vegetative propagules that survive drought. In these wetlands the pattern of plant zonation can differ from year to year and season to season, and depth is not always a good indicator of the plant community composition in different zones. In order to determine which aspects of water regime (depth, duration or frequency of flooding) were important in the development of plant communities an experiment using seed bank material from two wetlands was undertaken over a 16 week period in late spring-early summer 1995-1996. Seed bank samples were exposed to 17 different water-level treatments with different depths, durations and frequencies of flooding. Species richness and biomass of the communities that established from the seed bank were assessed at the end of the experiment and the data were examined to determine which aspects of water regime were important in the development of the different communities. It was found that depth, duration and frequency of inundation influenced plant community composition, but depth was least important, and also that the duration of individual flooding events was important in segregating the plant communities. Species were grouped according to their ability to tolerate or respond to fluctuations in flooding and drying. The highest biomass and species richness developed in pots that were never flooded. Least biomass and species richness developed in pots that were continuously flooded. Short frequent floods promoted high species richness and biomass especially of Amphibious fluctuation-tolerator species and Amphibious fluctuation-responder species that have heterophylly. Terrestrial species were able to establish during dry phases between short floods. Depth was important in determining whether Amphibious fluctuation-tolerator or Amphibious fluctuation-responder species had greater biomass. Longer durations of flooding lowered species richness and the biomass of terrestrial species. Experiments of this kind can assist in predicting vegetation response to water-level variation in natural and modified wetlands.
20050789|We studied secondary succession in two subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forests near Shanghai, China that had been harvested 2-60 years earlier. Shrubs were thinned in one of the forests to about 60% of their original density for the first 20 years after harvesting. The other was not disturbed after harvesting. Five stands were sampled in each forest. Species composition and richness varied little during succession. Biomass, soil organic matter, total soil nitrogen, and soil water all increased with time. Soil organic matter and total nitrogen were significantly less in thinned forest than in undisturbed forests, but soil moisture did not vary with shrub thinning. Total tree density did not change over time, suggesting that species replacements were not driven by self-thinning. The eventual replacement of shrubs by trees occurred because shrub density decreased whereas tree density remained constant and tree mass increased.
41508743|Plant competition is a primary ecological process limiting grassland restoration success. Appropriate restoration techniques require an understanding of the degree to which intra and interspecific competition control invasive and native plant growth. The objective of this study was to determine how the intensity of intra and interspecific competition changes during early stages of plant growth. Two invasive (Bromus tectorum and Taeniatherum caput-medusae) and two native (Pseudoroegneria spicata and Poa secundo) species were grown in a diallel competition experiment, either alone or in 1:1 binary combinations and exposed to two levels of N (no N or 400 mg N kg soil added) in a greenhouse. Total biomass for each species was quantified over four harvests and competitive effects were calculated. Our results show that the relative magnitude of intra and interspecific competition changes through time. Intraspecific competition was intense for native species at the initial harvests and therefore important in contributing to the outcome of final size of native species seedlings. Interestingly, bluebunch wheatgrass imposed interspecific competition on annual grasses at the first two harvests and appeared to be a better competitor than Sandberg's bluegrass. We found that fast growing invasive species became more competitive compared to slow growing native species with increasing N and appear to establish a positive feedback mechanism between size and resource uptake. Opportunities to improve restoration success exist from determining the optimum combination of density, species proportion, and their spatial arrangement in various ecosystems and environments.
40540329|Increases in tree density resulting from fire suppression have contributed considerably to the loss of savanna and grassland habitats in North America. Inability to tolerate shade is likely an important cause of species loss in areas that have not maintained historical burning regimes. We conducted an experiment to test whether differences in shade tolerance can explain rarity within the genus Amorpha. Four common and three rare species of Amorpha were grown in a greenhouse for 100 days in direct sun or under 90% shade. Overall, shading significantly reduced growth and survival and affected allocation among species, but these differences did not differ consistently between common and rare species. Ability to tolerate shade was best explained by phenotypic plasticity, with greater shade survival being exhibited by species with the largest changes in leaf area ratio. Furthermore, this study demonstrated that all three of the rare species can be readily cultivated under greenhouse conditions.
40212869|In plant species, when clonal growth produces a patchy structure and flowering ramets are clustered, the amount of pollen contributing to reproductive success is often regulated by pollinator efficiency and geitonogamy. The spatial population structure may influence reproductive success. We examined the clonal structure, the spatial ramet distribution, and their combined effects on fruit set in a natural population of the insect-pollinated, self-incompatible clonal herb, Convallaria keiskei, in northern Japan. The number of shoots, flowers, and fruits in 1-m quadrats were counted at every 5 m grid point in an established 100 x 90-m study plot. From all the quadrats where shoots existed, leaf samples were collected for allozyme analysis. Using the two spatial parameters of flowering ramet densities and genotypes, we then constructed individualbased fruit-set models. A total of 236 quadrats contained shoots, and 135 contained flowering ramets, which indicated expanded distribution of this plant throughout the study plot, while shoots, flowers and fruits all showed clustering distributions. Allozyme analysis of 282 samples revealed 94 multilocus genotypes. The largest clone extended to more than 40 m, whereas 56 genotypes were detected in only one sample. Several large clones and many small clones were distributed close to each other. Fine-scale spatial modelling revealed that the neighbouring flower numbers of different genotypes, compared with local genet or flower diversity, more influenced fruit set, in which the range of the neighbour was 14.5 m. These findings indicate that the compatible pollen dispersed by insect pollinators has a significant effect on sexual reproduction, in this C. keiskei population. Consequently, the spatial structure, which includes both genet distribution and clonal expansion by ramets, had a significant effect on pollination success.
40212937|Woody vegetation is distributed patchily in many arid and semi-arid ecosystems, where it is often associated with elevated nitrogen (N) pools and availability in islands of fertility. We measured N availability and  N in paired blue-oak versus annual grass dominated patches to characterize the causes and consequences of spatial variation in N dynamics of grassland-savanna in Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park. We found significantly greater surface soil N pools (0-20 cm) in oak patches compared to adjacent grass areas across a 700 m elevation gradient from foothills to the savanna-forest boundary. N accumulation under oaks was associated with a 0.6 depletion in soil  N relative to grass patches. Results from a simple  mass balance simulation model, constrained by surface soil N and  N measured in the field, suggest that the development of islands of N fertility under oaks can be traced primarily to enhanced N inputs. Net N mineralization and percent nitrification in laboratory incubations were consistently higher under oaks across a range of experimental soil moisture regimes, suggesting a scenario whereby greater N inputs to oak patches result in net N accumulation and enhanced N cycling, with a potential for greater nitrate loss as well. N concentrations of three common herbaceous annual plants were nearly 50% greater under oak than in adjacent grass patches, with community composition shifted towards more N-demanding species under oaks. We find that oaks imprint distinct N-rich islands of fertility that foster local feedback between soil N cycling, plant N uptake, and herbaceous community composition. Such patch-scale differences in N inputs and plant-soil interactions increase biogeochemical heterogeneity in grassland-savanna ecosystems and may shape watershed-level responses to chronic N deposition.
20051184|Inter- and intra-specific competition has long been regarded as a significant determinant of the structure and function of woody plant communities in African savannas. The most widely used approach to detect the presence or absence of competition has been the use of nearest-neighbour methods. Although several studies have been published reporting the presence of competition in Acacia dominated communities, less than 20 plots have been sampled across all these studies. Results from broad-leaved communities are variable, and also based on a small sample number. Consequently, this study sought to assess the prevalence of competition from a large number of savanna sites (45), and to identify abiotic and biotic factors characterising sites with competition relative to those without. Using the nearest-neighbour method only four sites (9.3%) indicated the presence of inter-specific competition; two were Acacia dominated communities (18.2% of Acacia sites) and two were broad-leaved communities (7.7%). These four sites had a significantly higher mean annual rainfall and fewer woody species than sites without inter-specific competition. There were also significant relationships between the inter-specific competition index and the dominance index and the number of species at a site. In terms of intra-specific competition only ten of the 31 sites tested revealed a significant correlation between nearest-neighbour distance and summed canopy volume of the two neighbours. Seven were for Acacia species (55.6% of the Acacia species comparisons) and three were for broad-leaved species (21.4% of the broad-leaved species comparisons). Sites lacking evidence of intra-specific competition were at a significantly lower slope position and had a smaller proportion of small stems. The lower prevalence of competition in South African savannas detected in this study using the same method as previous studies is discussed, and the appropriateness of nearest-neighbour analysis is examined.
20050546|We investigated vegetation-seed bank relationships at three fynbos sites on the Cape Peninsula, South Africa, and the impacts to these sites of invasion by the alien tree Acacia saligna. Soil-stored seed banks in uninvaded fynbos were of a similar density to those previously measured in fynbos (ca. 1100-1500 seeds
20146741|Soil pH was measured at two different spatial scales in coastal dunes on Norderney, North Sea, and in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Baltic Sea, Germany. Relationships between the variability in soil pH, species richness and species diversity are presented. Species richness and diversity were highest in grey dunes, where soil pH was at intermediate levels; both variables were lower in yellow and brown dunes. The variability in pH increased with increasing species diversity and also with scale. Overall, soil pH variability decreased with increasing vegetation cover. The lowest pH heterogeneity was found in heath dominated by Empetrum nigrum L. and grey dunes dominated by Campylopus introflexus (Hedw.) Brid. Increasing abundance of dominant species and decreasing species diversity of vegetation apparently reduces soil heterogeneity. Decreasing species diversity of vegetation is likely to explain decreasing variability in soil pH.
20051142|We compared five-year old forests developing after agriculture to those recovering from Hurricane Joan (1988) and to the pre-hurricane forest, at two sites in tropical rain forest in southeastern Nicaragua. We used non-parametric cluster analysis to group transects by their species compositions, and compared their species richness, estimated total species richness, dominance, density and basal area. Post-agriculture transects showed distinctive species compositions and lower diversity than post-hurricane transects, which were in turn more similar to the pre-hurricane forest. These results are similar to those found by other researchers in the Amazon and in Puerto Rico. Land use history was more important than proximity in the landscape in determining the composition and structure of post-disturbance forests in this region.
20146529|In Sweden the deciduous forest perennial Sanicula europaea L. (Apiaceae) is frequently subjected to leaf loss due to cattle grazing and trampling. In a two-season field experiment, the effects of the extent, timing and repetition of leaf removal on survival, growth and reproduction in S. europaea were examined. Removal of vegetative tissue in S. europaea reduced future survival, growth and flowering probabilities. The magnitude of these effects depended both on the extent and the timing of the season of the leaf losses, as greater leaf losses had more negative effects than moderate and early removals had more negative consequences than late. Moreover, the probability of an individual to regrow the same season after severe losses was higher when losses occurred early in the season than when they occurred late. And, those defoliated early that did regrow, did so to a larger extent than those defoliated later. Experimental responses were more pronounced after a second year of leaf removals, indicating that repeated herbivory exhausts resources. Thus, herbivory causing losses in vegetative tissue will affect the performance of S. europaea. However, the impact depends on the extent and timing of the leaf losses. This should be considered in managing policies and cattle should, if possible, not be introduced early in the growing season.
41429068|Phenotypic plasticity is an important plant trait associated with invasiveness of alien plants that reflects its ability to occupy a wide range of environments. We investigated the phenotypic response of Chenopodium murale to resource variability and ontogeny. Its plant-level and leaf-level traits were studied at high-resource (HR) and low-resource (LR) sites in peri-urban areas in Indian dry tropics. Plants at LR had significantly higher root length, root/shoot biomass ratio, stem mass and root mass fractions. Plants at HR had higher shoot length, basal diameter, leaf mass fraction and leaf area ratio. Leaf-level traits like leaf area and chlorophyll a were also higher here. Mean plasticity indices for plant-and leaf-level traits were higher at HR. With increasing total plant biomass, there was significant increase in the biomass of leaf, stem, root, and reproductive parts, and root and shoot lengths, whereas root/shoot length ratio, their biomass ratio, and leaf and root mass fractions declined significantly. Allocation to roots and leaves significantly decreased with increasing plant size at both sites. But, at any size, allocation to roots was greater at LR, indicative of optimization of capture of soil nutrients, whereas leaf allocation was higher at HR. Consistently increasing stem allocation equaled leaf allocation at comparatively higher shoot lengths at HR. Reproductive biomass comprised 10-12% of the plant's total biomass. In conclusion, the success of alien weed murale across environmentally diverse habitat conditions in Indian dry tropics can be attributed to its high phenotypic plasticity, resource utilization capability in low-resource habitats and higher reproductive potential. These characteristics suggest that it will continue to be an aggressive invader.
20050860|The dynamics of Mediterranean vegetation over 28 years was studied in the Northern Galilee Mountains, Israel, in order to identify and quantify the major factors affecting it at the landscape scale. Image analysis of historical and current aerial photographs was used to produce high resolution digital vegetation maps (pixel size = 30 cm) for an area of 4 km in the Galilee Mountains, northern Israel. GIS tools were used to produce corresponding maps of grazing regime, topographic indices and other relevant environment factors. The effects of those factors were quantified using a multiple regression analyses. Major changes in the vegetation occurred during the period studied (1964-1992); tree cover increased from 2% in 1964 to 41% in 1992, while herbaceous vegetation cover decreased from 56% in 1964 to 24% in 1992. Grazing, topography and initial vegetation cover were found to significantly affect present vegetation patterns. Both cattle grazing and goat grazing reduced the rate of increase in tree cover, yet even intensive grazing did not halt the process. Grazing affected also the woody-herbaceous vegetation dynamics, reducing the expansion of woody vegetation. Slope, aspect, and the interaction term between these two factors, significantly affected vegetation pattern. Altogether, 56% and 72% of the variability in herbaceous and tree cover, respectively, was explained by the regression models. This study indicates that spatially explicit Mediterranean vegetation dynamics can be predicted with fair accuracy using few biologically important environmental variables.
20051006|As the density and species composition of insects may change in relation to distance from the forest edge, the role of herbivory in tree establishment may also change across edges. To determine the importance of insect herbivory in tree establishment, insect densities were experimentally altered at different distances from the forest edge. Plots were established at three distances from the edge, with plots located in forest, edge, and field habitats. In half of each plot, insect densities were reduced by insecticide application. Seeds of two tree species, Acer rubrum and Fraxinus americana, were planted into each plot in 1995. The experiment was repeated in 1996 with the addition of Quercus palustris and Quercus rubra. Distance from the forest edge was the most important factor in determining seedling emergence and mortality. Overall seedling performance increased from field to edge to woods, although responses varied among species. In 1995, a drought year, insect removal increased emergence and decreased mortality of tree seedlings. In 1996, a year with normal precipitation, insect removal had much less effect on A. rubrum and F. americana. For the two Quercus species, mortality was reduced by insect removal. The tree species differed in their susceptibility to insect herbivory, with Acer rubrum the most susceptible and Fraxinus americana the least. Herbivory by insects was shown to have the potential to affect both the composition and spatial pattern of tree invasions. Herbivore importance differed greatly between the two years of the study, making the interaction between insects and tree seedlings variable both in space and time.
20051278|Germination patterns were studied among three populations of Scotch thistle, Onopordum acanthium L. (Asteraceae). Cypselas (seeds) were collected twice during the growing season for four consecutive years (1996-1999) from plants grown in the same location, the Environmental Sciences Western Field Station (ESW) near London, Ontario. Cypselas from 1996 came from plants that had been transplanted as rosettes from their original sites to ESW, while those for 1997-1999 came from plants grown from cypselas collected in 1996. Fresh cypselas were put to germinate at 25 C, 14 h light/10 C, 10 h dark for 55 days. Consistent and significant differences in final germination percentages among populations were obtained over the four years. There were also differences between collections within populations in 1996 and 1998. In addition, the final germination percentage (collectively) differed widely among years. There was a greater than 30 percent correlation between germination percentage and mean daily maximum temperature during cypsela maturation. Since there were similar differences among populations every year, it appears that germination patterns of O. acanthium populations have a genetic basis as well as an environmental one.
20146459|Understanding plant interactions during succession is a central goal of plant ecology. The nucleation model of succession proposes that facilitative interactions lead to outward radiations of colonization from established plants. I tested the nucleation hypothesis for early successional plants on the primary dunes of barrier islands in the southeastern United States. On the coast of Florida and Georgia, I sampled the above-ground vegetation and the seed bank, and conducted a seedling emergence experiment in the field. Vegetation sampling at both field sites showed more positive correlations in percent cover of adult species than expected by chance. At both sites, there were significantly more seeds under plants than in open microsites. Seeds of the same species as the adult plants in the vegetated microsites were removed from the analysis, so the accumulation of seeds under adults is not due simply to a seed shadow effect. Seeds of six species were added to plots under plants and in open microsites, and seedling emergence was significantly higher under plants than in the open. The findings support the predictions of the nucleation hypothesis for the early life-history stages of seed dispersal and germination, and help to explain the clumped distribution of dune plants seen in the field. The results add further support for the contention that facilitation is an important mode of plant interaction in stressful and disturbed habitats.
20146643|We examined the spatial distribution of saplings in relation to topography and stand structure in a subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest in the northern part of Okinawa Island, Japan. The distributions of most species were influenced mainly by topography but also by canopy openness. Species were arranged along a topographical gradient from concave areas with low canopy openness to convex areas with high canopy openness. Canopy species were arranged along a gradient from unstable fertile areas to stable infertile areas. Species occurring mostly in convex areas had a narrower distribution range than those in concave sites. Thus, habitat heterogeneity provided by topography and stand structure appears to be important factors for maintaining high species diversity in the understory of this subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest.
20050937|To study the influence of gap structure and bamboo species on the regrowth of montane Atlantic forest, colonization by plants was characterized in 30 treefall gaps (30.3-500.5 m. The study was conducted at Santa Virgnia (4530 W, 2317 S), a 4970-ha reserve of Atlantic montane forest in southeastern Brazil. Area covered by bamboos ranged from 0% to 100% of gap area. Average height of surrounding canopies ranged from 12 to 30 m. As gap are covered by bamboo and average height of surrounding canopies increased, both density and richness of pioneer woody species decreased. Density and richness of shade-tolerant species were negatively influenced by gap area. Low-light-demanding species of Miconia, Leandra and Rapanea accounted for the majority of both pioneer species and individuals sampled, whereas high-light demanding pioneers of Cecropia, Alchornea and Tibouchina were poorly represented. We suggest that in the Atlantic montane forest bamboo species compete for gaps, excluding other light-demanding pioneers. This results in an overall reduction of pioneer species richness in the Atlantic forest.
20051244|We studied the influence of environmental heterogeneity and dispersal processes on mesoscale distribution patterns of understorey plants in a 330 ha ancient, managed temperate forest area. Similarity matrix regression analysis showed that overall species similarity was affected by site (the two disjunct halves of the forest area), spatial autocorrelation at the 100 m scale, edaphic conditions, stand type and stand structure, and the occurrence of open areas, but not by stand age or topography. Using autologistic regression we analysed the influence of clumping, site, edaphic conditions, stand composition, open areas, and stand structure on the individual distribution patterns of the 60 most abundant species. Only five species had distributions that were not significantly related to any of the explanatory variables. A large number of species showed significant, and often differing, relationships to at least one of the environmental parameters. At least 20 species exhibited clumping at the 100 m scale that was independent of the environmental parameters. Principal coordinate analysis and an analysis using the Ellenberg ecological indicator values suggested that no important gradients had been overlooked. Dispersal ability (estimated from dispersal mode) and clumping independent of environmental heterogeneity were related. Poor dispersers exhibited stronger clumping at the 100 m scale than good dispersers. Our results support the joint importance of environmental heterogeneity and dispersal processes in shaping the mesoscale distribution patterns of forest herbs. We conclude that the distribution of plant species, and species coexistence and species composition in plant communities, cannot be explained without simultaneously considering environmental heterogeneity and dispersal.
41508726|Small and challenging to identify, bryophyte species are often under-represented in large-scale studies of vegetation patterns. Bryophyte occurrence is likely to be influenced by multiple processes and little is known about the relative importance of the different factors across diverse landscapes. Species-environment relationships of 15 common terrestrial moss species in native forests of South and Stewart islands, New Zealand, were examined. Models were developed for each species to test relationships between species distribution and 22 environmental predictors, using Generalised Regression Analysis and Spatial Prediction (GRASP). The New Zealand nationwide vegetation survey LUCAS, although showing several limitations, provided data to investigate factors that may influence bryophyte distribution along large gradients. Combined biotic (primarily total vegetation cover) and abiotic (mean annual temperature and rainfall) effects best contributed to distribution models of all but two moss species. Canopy tree species at a site were also important predictors in the spatial distribution of several individual moss species, possibly through altering the physical environment and resource availability, although both bryophytes and vascular plant species may be influenced independently by the same factors. The study highlights the importance of different factors influencing bryophyte distributions and identifies several factors controlling distributions that require further investigation.
40305588|The articles in this special issue review what is known about the development of wetlands in landscapes and of patterns in various kinds of wetlands around the world with an emphasis on wetlands with treed patches (tree islands) like the Okavango Delta and the Everglades. Wetlands with treed patches have much in common with their terrestrial counterparts in arid regions. Both are mosaic landscapes in which the patches of trees are distributed in a non-random fashion in a matrix of herbaceous vegetation. In these landscapes, the treed patches are both biogeochemical and biodiversity hotspots. They are biogeochemical hotspots because treed patches preferentially acquire nutrients and other limited resources, like water in arid regions. They are biodiversity hotspots because treed patches are habitats with environmental and structural characteristics very different from those of the herbaceous matrix in which they are found. Consequently, treed patches attract and support populations of many plant and animal species that otherwise would not be found in the area. Studies and simulation models of arid mosaic landscapes have generated a number of hypotheses about the structure and functions of mosaic landscapes, most of which have yet to be tested, especially in wetland mosaic landscapes.
24553726|Biotic interactions are predicted to have the strongest influence on species assemblages in extreme environments. We therefore test the hypothesis that in abiotically-severe beaches plantplant interactions, specifically facilitation, are important relative to abiotic conditions. This hypothesis is tested by assessing the influence of dominant vascular plant species on the fine-scale occurrence and richness of vascular and cryptogam species using a unique dataset of boreal beaches along the Finnish Baltic Sea, characterized by strong post-glacial land uplift and large environmental gradients. We studied three different levels of vegetation patterns across a broad geographical scale; individual species, functional groups and the entire community. Results showed that dominant vascular species strongly drive species occurrence and richness in dynamic beach environments, with some species having an influence similar to that of key abiotic variables. In contrast to expectations, facilitative effects did not dominate in these harsh environments. Instead, the outcomes of biotic interactions were species-specific, and also differed between vascular and cryptogam species, with the former group most strongly influenced by a pioneer species and the latter by a late succession generalist. Our study highlights the importance of incorporating biotic interaction effects into models of multiple vegetation properties and cautions against overly simplistic generalizations to describe relatively idiosyncratic interaction effects.
41508716|The disappearance of low-intensity types of agricultural land use such as mowing and grazing is a global phenomenon which leads to changes in species composition and interactions in plant communities. In central Germany, formerly species-rich, semi-natural dry grasslands have been converted into species-poor communities dominated by Festuca rupicola or Poa angustifolia. As a consequence, several forbs have become endangered, and biodiversity has decreased. In a 5-year competition experiment (replacement design; pots were placed outdoors at Halle Botanical Garden), we evaluated the performance of plant-plant interactions between the rare forb Campanula glomerata, F. rupicola and P. angustifolia, respectively. The response of C. glomerata to the presence of the two grass species were measured by stem length, number of flowers and above-ground biomass annually harvested. We did not find significant differences in C. glomerata stem lengths between years and treatments, but flower production, which was highest in the first year, strongly decreased in the subsequent years. Moreover, flower production was lower in combination with P. angustifolia than with F. rupicola. Biomass production showed significant differences between years, but not between treatments. The positive and negative interactions between C. glomerata and the two grass species was estimated by calculating Relative Neighbour Effect Index (RNE). In combination with F. rupicola, interactions switched between facilitation and competition from year to year. In the presence of P. angustifolia, competitive effects on C. glomerata were highest in the second year, but declined from year to year. Curiously, there were no significant correlations between positive and negative interactions with climatic conditions (annual temperature, precipitation and relative air humidity). Our results showed that the response of the rare forb C. glomerata varies with neighbour species, and that fecundity is more prominently affected by competition than stem height or biomass. Our data indicate that biomass removal by traditional land use methods would facilitate the restoration of species-rich dry grassland communities.
20051088|Pea (Pisum sativum L.) and bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) plants were exposed to enhanced levels of UV-B radiation in a growth chamber. Leaf discs of UV-B treated and control plants were exposed to high-light (HL) stress (PAR: 1200 mol <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\ \text{s}^{-1}$</tex-math>) to study whether pre-treatment with UV-B affected the photoprotective mechanisms of the plants against photoinhibition. At regular time intervals leaf discs were taken to perform chlorophyll a fluorescence and oxygen evolution measurements to assess damage to the photosystems. Also, after 1 h of HL treatment the concentration of xanthophyll cycle pigments was determined. A significantly slower decline of maximum quantum efficiency of PSII (<tex-math>$F_{v}/F_{m}$</tex-math>), together with a slower decline of oxygen evolution during HL stress was observed in leaf discs of UV-B treated plants compared to controls in both plant species. This indicated an increased tolerance to HL stress in UV-B treated plants. The total pool of xanthophyll cycle pigments was increased in UV-B treated pea plants compared to controls, but in bean no significant differences were found between treatments. However, in bean plants thiol concentrations were significantly enhanced by UV-B treatment, and UV-absorbing compounds increased in both species, indicating a higher antioxidant capacity. An increased leaf thickness, together with increases in antioxidant capacity could have contributed to the higher protection against photoinhibition in UV-B treated plants.
41508784|Spotted knapweed (Centaurea stoebe L. subsp. Micranthos (Gugler) Hayek) was first introduced in the 1890s from Europe into western North America, where it now occupies over three million hectares of rangeland and pasture in 14 states and two Canadian provinces, reducing forage production and causing economic damage. Despite many reported effects spotted knapweed can have on soils and native vegetation, it is not known whether patch size is correlated with these ecosystem-level effects. The objective of our study was to determine whether the effects of spotted knapweed on plant composition and soil properties was related to spotted knapweed patch size. We asked the following questions: (1) Are there differences in plant species richness and diversity between small and large knapweed patches? and (2) Do soil water and soil mineral nutrient properties change depending on knapweed patch size? Twenty-four knapweed patches, and paired natural grassland plots, were randomly selected within Lac du Bois Provincial Park, British Columbia, Canada. Knapweed patch size ranged from 6 to 366 m. Sampling and analysis revealed a significant effect of knapweed patch size on soil and vegetation properties. Soil P, soil temperature, and total dry plant biomass (g/0.25 m) increased, while soil N, soil C, and soil moisture decreased with patch size. Since our results show that spotted knapweed patch size is related to degree of soil alteration, it is important to consider size of patch when modeling the impact of spotted knapweed in North America. Since large patches of spotted knapweed seem to have a proportionately greater effect on soil chemistry properties, large patches may move the system further away from a point where it is possible to restore the site to pre-invasion conditions.
23267470|Seed predation has traditionally been considered as simply a progressive loss of seeds. However, partial consumption of tree seeds may actually assist regeneration. We quantified partial consumption of acorns by the common rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) in a cork oak forest in southwest Spain (Doana Natural Park). To examine the effects of partial consumption on germination and seedling emergence, we simulated two different levels of acorn predation (30 and 50 % cotyledon loss, representing light and heavy partial consumption, respectively). One-third of the sampled acorns presented evidence of consumption but most of the damage caused by partial consumption did not affect the acorn embryo (damage was mainly to non-vital parts of the propagule). Partial consumption caused more rapid germination and emergence than that was observed in intact acorns, but germination and emergence rate was unaffected. Heavy consumption of the acorn caused differences in root and shoot biomass as a consequence of cotyledon loss. In this greenhouse study, partial consumption was non-lethal to the acorns, and cotyledon biomass loss did not decrease the probability of successful establishment. Partially consumed seeds can therefore contribute significantly to the natural regeneration of Quercus coccifera, although it would be beneficial to conduct long-term studies focusing on seed traits and animal behaviour under field conditions.
23500420|Plants in arctic and alpine habitats could potentially escape the effects of climatic fluctuations by surviving in suitable microsites. We tested this hypothesis by conducting a herb-chronological analysis of the morphological growth markers retained on the rhizomes of the clonal herb Rumex alpinusa common plant with a broad ecological amplitude found in the alpine zone of the Low Tatra Mts., Western Carpathians, Slovakia. We asked whether aspects of plant growth were related to the climatic conditions measured at a local weather station over two approximately decade-long study periods (19771988 and 20012010) on both snowbed and non-snowbed sites. Although the latter period had average summer temperatures that were about 2 C warmer than the first, both had the same average growing season length and average total monthly precipitation. Snow accumulation and other climatic events shortened the growing seasons for the plants in the first period, thus reducing vegetative growth. On the other hand, climatic events prolonging the growing seasons supported plant growth and flowering in the snowbed site. In the second, warmer period, growing season lengths were not related to plant performance but August temperatures had a positive effect on plant growth in both the snowbed and non-snowbed sites. Our results imply that mesoclimatic factors substantially affect plant growth, although their relative importance might change with climate fluctuations altering their influence in sites of differing snow accumulation.
20050995|Air temperature and humidity, moss surface temperature, moss water content, and photosynthetically active radiation were measured through a clear dry night and early morning in July 1998; CO gas exchange of the moss was measured by infra-red gas analysis. The measurements showed progressive absorption of water by the moss through much of the night. The moss reached sufficient water content for about 1.5 h of positive net CO uptake immediately after dawn. The cumulative net carbon balance on this occasion was negative, but mornings with heavier dew could give a positive daily carbon balance, and short, early morning periods of photosynthesis during prolonged dry weather may mitigate long-term desiccation damage and allow for regular molecular repair.
23500345|Seed dispersal by ants (myrmecochory) is a widely distributed plantanimal interaction in many ecosystems, and it has been regarded as a generalized (multiple species) interaction in which specialization on specific ant partners is uncommon. In this paper, we demonstrate species-specific seed dispersal of spotted spurge (Chamaesyce maculata) by ants in Japan. C. maculata produces seeds from summer to autumn in Japan. The seeds produced in autumn are carried by two ant species, Tetramorium tsushimae and Pheidole noda. We performed laboratory experiments to investigate the fate of C. maculata seeds in the nests of T. tsushimae and P. noda. P. noda consumed the seeds in the nest and rarely carried seeds out of the nest, while T. tsushimae consumed only the seed coat, and subsequently carried the seeds out of the nest. Removal of the seed coat by T. tsushimae may increase seed survival by reducing their susceptibility to infection by fungi. We also observed ant responses to filter paper soaked with an aqueous extract of the seed coat. P. noda did not react to the filter paper, but T. tsushimae carried the filter paper into their nest. Analysis by high-pressure liquid chromatography revealed that the aqueous extract contained at least four sugars and one unknown substance. Myrmecochory has been regarded as a generalized interaction with specialization for specific ant partners uncommon. However, our study suggests there is a species-specific interaction in seed dispersal by ants in autumn-flowering individuals of C. maculata in Japan.
23267480|Theoretical and empirical evidence exists for a positive relationship between environmental heterogeneity and species diversity. Alpine plant communities can exhibit exceptional diversity at a fine scale, which niche theory would suggest is the result of fine scale spatial heterogeneity of the environment. To test if species diversity of alpine plants is driven by environmental heterogeneity, we sampled vascular plant species composition, microtopography, and ground cover within 1 m 2 plots with and without solifluction forms in Glacier National Park, MT. We analyzed the relationship between microtopographic heterogeneity and species richness at the plot and sub-plot scale with linear and quantile regression, respectively. Species richness does not differ between the plots varying in cover type. Species richness is negatively related to the fractal dimension (D) of the ground surface and non-vegetated ground cover within 1 m 2 plots. At a finer scale, the standard deviation of elevation and slope appear to impose a limit on species richness such that more variable sub-plots have lower species richness. Contrary to our expectations, microtopographic heterogeneity does not promote the diversity of alpine plants. The negative relationship between topographic heterogeneity and species richness is contrary to the theoretical prediction that environmental heterogeneity generally results in greater species diversity. It is possible that microtopographic variability represents a measure of soil disturbance, which would be expected to have a negative effect on species diversity in alpine tundra due to its low productivity.
20146749|Long-lived desert shrubs exhibit infrequent, episodic recruitment from seed. In spite of this long time scale, selection on life history attributes that affect seedling recruitment should be strong. We studied factors affecting germination phenology and seedling establishment for Coleogyne ramosissima, a dominant shrub species in the ecotone between warm and cold deserts in western North America. We also examined ecotypic differentiation in establishment strategy in response to selection regimes in two contrasting habitats. We followed patterns of dormancy loss, germination, emergence, and survival in reciprocal field experiments at warm winter Mojave Desert and cold winter Colorado Plateau study sites. Seed germination took place in late winter, under winter rain conditions at the warm desert site and under snow at the cold desert site. Distinctive germination phenologies for the two seed populations at contrasting field sites followed predictions based on laboratory germination experiments. There was no seed bank carryover across years. Seedling survival at the end of three growing seasons was remarkably high (mean survival 54%). Most seedling mortality was due to sprout predation by rodents early the first spring in unprotected caches. Emergence and establishment at each site were significantly higher for seeds from the local population, supporting the idea of ecotypic differentiation in establishment strategy. Establishment success was an order of magnitude greater overall at the Colorado Plateau site, which represents the leading edge of an upward elevational shift in distribution for this species under the current climatic regime. The Mojave Desert site is on the trailing edge of this shift, and recruitment there is apparently a much less frequent occurrence.
20051003|In the forests of Austrocedrus chilensis (D. Don) Florin et Boutleje (Cupressaceae) it is frequent to observe numerous mutilated and dwarfed saplings which have been browsed by domestic cattle and exotic deer. One way to assess the effects of browsing on plant growth is by simulating this process through defoliation. This study includes results from four years of artificial browsing at different intensities on A. chilensis saplings. Our objective was to evaluate the possible compensatory growth by A. chilensis. To that end we measured the effects of simulated browsing on the growth of saplings kept under two different experimental conditions, with and without water stress. Treatments were applied at the end of winter of 1993 and were repeated on 1994, 1995 and 1996. Treatments consisted in pruning and cutting. Neither cutting effects nor factors interactions were found. Pruning resulted in a reduction of saplings biomass of 44% and was only significant at the more intensive level. Watering produced saplings with five times more biomass, but the general response of A. chilensis to simulated browsing was the lack of compensation regardless the intensity of pruning or the quality of site.
41508686|Arnica montana, a characteristic plant of nutrient-poor grasslands, has strongly declined during the last decades, particularly at lower altitudes. To gain insights into the underlying reasons for this decline, we recorded differences in size, stage structure and reproductive traits between 21 colline populations of A. montana in the Ardennes-Eifel region (280-600 m a.s.l.) and 10 montane populations in the Vosges Mountains (1,200 m a.s.l.). Community composition of the Violion caninae vegetation at colline sites and Nardion strictae vegetation at montane sites indicated that temperature and moisture were the main abiotic factors differentiating between low and high altitudinal releves. The proportion of flowering rosettes decreased with altitude, indicating a shift from sexual reproduction to clonal growth. In contrast to expectation, Ellenberg values for nutrient availability as well as the proportion of young rosettes and population size did not differ between colline and montane populations. However, population size decreased with nutrient availability, indicating eutrophication as the reason for population decline. In small populations, plant density, the proportion of flowering rosettes, the number of flowerheads per rosette and the number of seeds per flowerhead were lower, indicating less suitable conditions. Thus, preventing further eutrophication in both colline and montane populations will be crucial for the conservation of the species. Reduced reproduction may not be important for the population dynamics of this clonal plant in the short term, but could affect genetic diversity and survival in the long term.
20051213|Canopy gaps are important in establishing a pool of natural regeneration in many temperate forest ecosystems. Information on the role of gaps in loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) and pine-hardwood forest stands in the southeastern Coastal Plain of the United States is lacking. Accordingly, 12 small canopy gaps in mature pine and pine-hardwood stands in Petersburg National Battlefield, Virginia, were studied. Loblolly pine regeneration was significantly more abundant in canopy gaps as compared to the adjacent forest in both forest cover types. In four stands dominated by loblolly pine, there were 750 saplings/ha in the gaps compared to only 125 saplings/ha in the adjacent forest. Pine saplings dominated the regeneration spectrum in the gaps in the pine stands, while red maple (Acer rubrum L.) was more important in the adjacent forest. In four pine-hardwood stands, regeneration in both the gaps and adjacent forest was dominated by sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.) with importance values of 27% and 28%, respectively. There were no loblolly pine seedlings in the adjacent forest, but an average 313 per ha in the gaps of the pine-hardwood stands. Within the gaps in both cover types, loblolly pine saplings were lower in stature than competing hardwood stems, leading to the conclusion that the gaps may form a temporary pool of pine regeneration. Without further stand disturbance, the process of gap closure may reduce the pine component to a secondary status, or perhaps eliminate it altogether.
40305452|Plant communities are often structured by interactions among species, such as competition or facilitation. If competition is an important factor that controls the presence and absence of species within intact communities, then a competitive hierarchy, a ranked order from competitive dominant to competitive subordinate, should predict the composition of intact communities. We tested whether a competitive hierarchy derived from pairwise comparisons accurately predicts species abundances within a constructed polyculture community consisting of seven species common to old-field plant communities. We first conducted a pot experiment in field conditions wherein we grew the species in all possible combinations, then created a competitive hierarchy derived from both competitive effect and competitive response for each species. Concurrently, at the same site in native field soil, we constructed polycultures consisting of the same seven species and calculated an abundance hierarchy based on foliar cover, biomass, and an index of species performance. The competitive hierarchy was not concordant with the abundance hierarchy, indicating that simple pairwise comparisons may not account for other factors that influence the abundance of species within relatively complex communities.
40540333|In arid and semiarid environments, the presence of woody species generates a series of environmental gradients that increase spatial heterogeneity and modify the pattern of distribution of the other species. We postulate that the temporal and spatial variability in litter input generated by woody species is a relevant factor in the generation of edaphic heterogeneity by redistribution of nutrients and the physical effects of litter. The objective of this study was to determine the temporal and spatial variability in the amount of litter input under the canopy of dominant woody plants (Prosopis flexuosa and Larrea divaricata) and in exposed areas at the acun Reserve, in the central zone of the Monte desert. Litterfall was collected during 2 years from 30-cm-diameter litter traps distributed at three microsites: under P. flexuosa canopy, under L. divaricata canopy, and in exposed areas. Microhabitats beneath Prosopis showed the highest litter input per m (between 320 and 527 g/m), and, consequently, more than 50% of it fell to the soil beneath the canopy of P. flexuosa. Only 10% fell on exposed areas, which exhibited an annual input rate per m of a lower order of magnitude than the sites under Prosopis. Litterfall presented a peak in summer as a consequence of convective storms, and a second one in autumn due to phenological shedding. Our results suggest that woody species have a central importance in the dynamics of nutrients in arid lands by both the increase of total productivity and litterfall, and the spatial and temporal regulation of litter input.
40540379|Moso bamboo extensively distributes in southeast and south Asia, and plays an important role in global carbon budget. However, its spatial distribution and heterogeneity are poorly understood. This research uses geostatistics theory to examine the spatial heterogeneity of aboveground biomass (AGB) of moso bamboo, and uses a point kriging interpolation method to estimate and map its spatial distribution. Results showed that (1) spatial heterogeneity and spatial pattern of moso bamboo's AGB can be revealed by an exponential semivariance model. The analysis of the model structure indicating that the AGB spatial heterogeneity is mainly composed of spatial autocorrelation components, and spatial autocorrelation range is from 360 to 41,220 m; (2) kriging standard deviation map showing the level of the model errors indicates that the AGB spatial distribution by point kriging interpolation method is reliable; (3) the average AGB of moso bamboo in Anji County is 44.228 Mg hm, and carbon density is 20.297 Mg C hm. The total AGB of moso bamboo accounts for 16.97% of the total forest-stand biomass in Zhejiang province. The total carbon storage of moso bamboo in China is 68.3993 Tg C, accounting for 1.6286% of the total forest carbon storage. This implies the important contribution of moso bamboo in regional or national carbon budget.
23362427|We fit regression and classification tree models to vegetation data collected from Ohio (USA) wetlands to determine (1) which species best predict Ohio vegetation index of biotic integrity (OVIBI) score and (2) which species best predict high-quality wetlands (OVIBI score >75). The simplest regression tree model predicted OVIBI score based on the occurrence of three plant species: skunk-cabbage (Symplocarpus foetidus), cinnamon fern (Osmunda cinnamomea), and swamp rose (Rosa palustris). The lowest OVIBI scores were best predicted by the absence of the selected plant species rather than by the presence of other species. The simplest classification tree model predicted high-quality wetlands based on the occurrence of two plant species: skunk-cabbage and marsh-fern (Thelypteris palustris). The overall misclassification rate from this tree was 13 %. Again, low-quality wetlands were better predicted than high-quality wetlands by the absence of selected species rather than the presence of other species using the classification tree model. Our results suggest that a species' wetland status classification and coefficient of conservatism are of little use in predicting wetland quality. A simple, statistically derived species checklist such as the one created in this study could be used by field biologists to quickly and efficiently identify wetland sites likely to be regulated as high-quality, and requiring more intensive field assessments. Alternatively, it can be used for advanced determinations of low-quality wetlands. Agencies can save considerable money by screening wetlands for the presence/absence of such "indicator" species before issuing permits.
20146911|We documented the relationship between densities of invasive exotic shrubs, distance to road, and successional age of the forest in 14 forested sites throughout central and southern Indiana. Roadways are increasingly abundant, human-made features that can be conduits for the spread of invasive exotic plants in a number of ecosystems. Little is known, however, about the role of roads in eastern deciduous forest ecosystems where road density is high. Further, it is not known whether the distribution of exotic plants along roads depends on the successional age of the forest. In this study, densities of four of seven exotic shrub species declined with increasing distance to the nearest road across all successional ages. Greater densities of exotic shrubs were found in young and mid-successional forests than mature forests. However, there was no interaction between distance to road and forest age, suggesting that the role of roads in the invasion process does not change across forest successional ages. We outline several potential mechanisms that may drive patterns of shrub distribution along roadside edges as a guide for future research.
40305756|In July 2000, six plots of Mediterranean maquis in the Castel Volturno Nature Reserve were burnt at two intensity levels to examine the effects of fire intensities on chemical and biological soil components and their relationships with ecophysiological processes of Phillyrea angustifolia L. Net photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, as well as P availability, were higher in burnt plots than in control plots, even 2 years after fire; the TM density of total soil microfungi was significantly lower in the first 8 months after fire, while xerotolerant and heatstimulated soil microfungi were still higher 2 years after fire. Significant correlations between photosynthesis and stomatal conductance in resprouts and mycorrhizal status, as well as changes in the soil fungal components of the communities, suggest that both soil and mycorrhizal fungi play a role in immobilizing and translocating nutrients temporarily released in the below-ground system by fire. Nutrient balance interacts with physiological processes, and a feedback mechanism is well represented by stomatal conductance, which allows both the influx of water and mineral nutrients from the soil; moreover, the post-fire increase in photosynthetic activity promotes vigorous resprouting and may lead to increased availability of carbohydrates for soil biota and, consequently, to enhanced vegetation resilience.
40926907|We studied the role of floristic composition and associational resistance in shrub dynamics by comparing spatial patterns of shrub cover after prescribed burning in neighbouring grassland communities with different palatability. The study focused on the shrub Cytisus balansae ssp. europaeus (G. Lpez and Jarvis) Muoz Garmendia. Seven two-dimensional transects (20  0.5 m) were established to monitor shrub cover for at least 10 years after prescribed burning. Shrub cover and spatial patterns were assessed in each transect. Floristic similarity between transects and Cytisus associations with different species were estimated. Over an entire transect, shrub cover and shrub scale of pattern and patch size were lowest in the unpalatable Festuca eskia grasslands and highest in F. paniculata grasslands. At short distances, we found negative associations between Cytisus and most of the grasses, except for F. nigrescens and Agrostis capillaris, which showed positive associations with Cytisus. Thus, the effects of associational resistance on shrub encroachment were not as marked as expected, F. eskia grasslands showing the lowest shrub encroachment rates after fire. By contrast, Cytisus was positively associated with the most palatable grasses in the site, namely F. nigrescens and A. capillaris. We conclude that differences in floristic composition drive shrub encroachment rates in these spatially heterogeneous communities.
40212897|We studied vegetation dynamics at peatlands, differing in their climate, land use management history and vegetation community in Ireland and Finland over a two-year period. Our aim was to develop a species-specific method to be used to (1) describe the seasonal dynamics of green (photosynthetic) area (GA) of the vegetation and (2) incorporate these changes into CO exchange models. The extent of temporal and spatial variation between and within communities indicated the need for a two-step calculation approach for each community. Firstly, at biweekly to monthly intervals, GA of all species within a range of vascular plant communities was estimated by non-destructive field measurements. Gaussian or log-normal models were fitted to describe the seasonal dynamics of each species. Secondly, an estimate of community vascular green area (VGA) was obtained by summing the modelled daily GA of all species within the community. The highest values of VGA (2.1-6.0 m m ) occurred within the reed communities at the rewetted cutaway peatland in Ireland and the lowest at the ombrotrophic lawn communities in Finland ( 0.5- 1.0 m m ). The relationship between light saturated gross photosynthesis (PQ) and VGA was either linear or hyperbolic depending on the degree of selfshading that occurred within each community. The addition of the VGA term into
20050838|The seasonal pattern of litter production was analyzed in three contiguous desert communities near the southern boundaries of the Sonoran Desert. There was a large spatial variation in annual litter production mainly caused by differences in the composition and structure of vegetation. In the most productive site (Arroyos) annual litterfall was 357 g
20146672| Shrub encroachment of grassland is a global phenomenon that can cause substantial and rapid changes in soil nutrient levels and distribution. If the woody plants in question also have the capacity to fix nitrogen (N), the effects on soil nutrients may potentially be large. Cytisus scoparius L. Link (Scotch broom) is an introduced leguminous shrub from the Mediterranean region that colonizes open grasslands. We measured several properties of the surface soil (0-10 cm depth) across advancing fronts of Cytisus to assess changes in soil fertility associated with invasion in western Washington state (USA). Both total soil C and N increased (1.8% and 6.5%, respectively), resulting in a decrease in C to N ratio of 22.5 in uninvaded soils to 21.5 inside Cytisus patches. N signature of surface soil did not clearly demonstrate a signal of N-fixation across the Cytisus gradient. On the other hand, seven-day laboratory aerobic incubations demonstrated 3 and 2.4 times greater mineralization and nitrification rate, respectively, in Cytisus soils compared to uninvaded soils. Despite this increase in N availability, bioassay plants (Achillea millefolium) grown in uninvaded soils in the greenhouse were  30% larger than those grown in Cytisus-invaded soils, suggesting that Cytisus may have inhibitory effects on some plants growing in invaded soils. These results suggest that the impact of Cytisus invasion on grassland plant communities may be influenced or tempered by chemical or microbial effects on the soil other than simply increased labile N. 
20051081|To test the hypothesis that plant source-sink relations are important in determining response to UV-B radiation, a short-term (45 d) field experiment was conducted at Abisko Scientific Research Station, Abisko, Sweden (68 N). Tillers of the grass Calamagrostis purpurea were grown outdoors at levels of UV-B radiation representing 25% ozone depletion. Growth, respiration, photo-assimilate allocation and UV-B protective compounds were subsequently measured. There were no significant effects of enhanced UV-B on total plant dry weight, leaf area, Shoot: Root ratio, leaf weight ratio, leaf area ratio, specific leaf area, tiller number per plant or blade thickness of this species. However, the amount of UV-B absorbing compounds and respiration rates were significantly increased in young and mature leaves. Increases in leaf respiration were accompanied by alterations in plant carbohydrate allocation at enhanced UV-B. The amount of soluble root carbohydrates was reduced following UV-B exposure. Enhanced UV-B also caused increases in the soluble sugar: starch ratio of young leaves, the stem and total aboveground biomass. The importance of source-sink relations and constitutive versus induced defense are discussed in relation to UV-B response.
20146825| Little is known about the importance of the forest overstorey relative to other factors in controlling the spatial variability in understorey species composition in near-natural temperate broadleaved forests. We addressed this question for the 19 ha ancient forest Suserup Skov (5522 N, 1134 E) in Denmark, one of the few old-growth temperate broadleaved forest remnants in north-western Europe, by inventorying understorey species composition and environmental conditions in 163 100 m plots. We use unconstrained and constrained ordinations, variation partitioning, and Indicator Species Analysis to provide a quantitative assessment of the importance of the forest overstorey in controlling understorey species composition. Comparison of the gradients extracted by unconstrained and constrained ordinations showed that the main gradients in understorey species composition in our old-growth temperate broadleaved forest remnant are not caused by variability in the forest overstorey, but are related to topography and soil, edge effects, and unknown broad-scale factors. Nevertheless, overstorey-related variables uniquely accounted for 15% of the total explained variation in understorey species composition, with the pure overstorey-related (
40305728|Invasive plant species impact both ecosystems and economies worldwide, often by displacing native biota. Many plant species exude/emit compounds into the surrounding environment with minor consequences in their native habitat due to a long coevolutionary history. However, upon introduction to ecosystems nave to these compounds, unpredictable interactions can manifest. The majority of the putative allelochemicals studied have been root exudates, despite the large number of plant species that emit volatile organic compounds. We quantified the concentrations and ecological consequences of volatile monoterpenes from the North American invasive perennial Artemisia vulgaris. Ambient monoterpene-mixing ratios inside an A. vulgaris canopy were 0.02-4.15 ppbv in May and 0.01-0.05 ppbv in August, but were negligible (below instrument detection limit of 0.01 ppbv) 10 m away. Foliar disturbance increased total monoterpene concentration to a maximum of 27 ppbv. However, this level remains 1,000-fold lower than that shown to be phytotoxic to sensitive species in laboratory assays. In contrast, soil monoterpene concentrations were > 74-fold higher inside
20050516|In the concept of modularity, plant modules are considered as iterative units and their changes are analyzed in terms of number or size. This paper, however, analyses changes with respect to the reproductive functional performance of modules and individual plant age. Patterns of resource allocation and partitioning in reproductive modules (fruits) are compared between two different age groups of a bushy perennial plant, Cistus ladanifer. Although modules do not differ in their allocation strategies (young plant modules produce the same seed and packing/protective structure biomass as old plant modules), their partitioning strategies change with plant age: young plant modules produce a larger number of lighter seeds than old plants. These differences have a direct consequence on the plant pre-dispersal fitness, which is not counteracted by insect predation on reproductive modules. These results are empirical evidence of a differentiation in the performance of reproductive modules with the ontogenetic development of this plant species. We think that the consideration of such kind of changes in module features is essential in the analysis of the iterative construction of plants.
20051118|Results of an extensive vegetation survey of 214 miombo woodland sites are reported, encompassing the full spectrum of site types in the northern region of Zimbabwe. At each sample site the vascular species (altogether 640) were recorded, as well as 38 environmental variables (climatic, topographic, edaphic factors; geology, vegetation features, exploitation and land tenure). The sampling design was orientated along the environmental gradients: altitude, slope, precipitation and geology. A reduced species set (286 species; frequency &gt 3%) was analysed by Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA), complemented by the 'Monte Carlo Permutation Test'. The first axis represents a combination of the major environmental variables, altitude, precipitation and soil texture, and the second -- being of marginal importance -- the 'Piriwiri' and 'Lomagundi sediments'. The matrix -- consisting of the species and sites arranged according to the first ordination-axis -- shows a diagonal feature embodying the moisture availability gradient of the study area, subsequently divided into seven ordinal moisture classes. The weighted averages of the species scores of the relevs -- the scores being fixed by the membership of the single species to one of the respective moisture classes -- permits ranking the sites due to moisture availability, thereby assessing their land use capacity.
40802528|Pinpointing the factors that alter the population viability of long-lived organisms, such as perennial plants, is especially useful for informing conservation management policies for threatened and endangered species. In this study, I used 4 years of demographic data on rare plant Polemonium vanbruntiae (Eastern Jacob's ladder, Polemoniaceae) to determine how white-tailed deer herbivory and habitat type (wet meadow and forest seep) affect long-term population viability. I incorporated these factors into matrix population models to estimate the deterministic and stochastic growth rates ( and s, respectively), stable stage distribution (SSD), the reproductive value for each stage class, the cumulative probability of extinction, and the elasticity values for all vital rates under each browsing and habitat scenario. Population growth rates of P. vanbruntiae in wet meadow sites are expected to increase at a slightly faster rate than at forest seep sites. Herbivory significantly decreased the predicted population growth rate under stochastic conditions. However, P. vanbruntiae ramets are expected to increase in the future as the population growth rate () > 1 under both "browse" and "no browse" scenarios, but deer herbivory increased the extinction risk to a detectable level. Deer preferentially browsed vegetative and reproductive adult ramets over yearlings and seedlings, and browsing significantly reduced fertility of reproductive ramets and increased the probability of stasis for small and large vegetative ramets. Browsing shifted the elasticity values of vital rates and changed the potential for younger life histories stages, such as seedlings, to change future population growth. Under herbivore pressure, survival and stasis of large vegetative ramets have the largest potential impact on future population growth. This study provides empirical evidence that white-tailed deer are an important ecological factor affecting longterm population dynamics of rare plant populations and offers management suggestions for remaining populations of P. vanbruntiae.
20051339|Research on the ecology of annual plants inhabiting deserts of Western Asia that have low rainfall and warm winter temperatures is extremely limited. One ecological factor that may greatly affect ephemeral growth in these deserts is rainfall interception by trees and large shrubs. Biologists have clarified how perennial plant foliage intercepts and re-distributes rainfall, but very little research has focused on the impact this may have on annual plant growth. Previous qualitative observations in this arid woodland suggest that rainfall intensity and microenvironment may interact to influence ephemeral plant production. This research quantifies the spatial patterns of the growth and abundance of an ephemeral plant community at three microsites, two beneath samr trees (Acacia tortilis (Forsskal) Hayne) and one in open desert, through five successive rainfall events. Two variables, density and dry weight biomass, were quantified on 0.25
20050832|We report tree community diversity, guild composition, and forest structure from three 1.2 ha (100 m  120 m) permanent forest research plots on Tutuila, American Samoa, an isolated volcanic island in the South Pacific Ocean. Plots were established in three habitat types of lowland hill forest: two in mature tracts that differed in substrate type (talus vs non-talus), and a third in a 30-40 year-old abandoned plantation on non-talus soil. We encountered a total of 57 tree species  10 cm dbh. Richness was similar across sites, but composition differed substantially. We were able to classify with confidence 24 tree species into four distinct guilds based on forest-type preference: early successional or persistent successional (disturbed forest), generalist (no preference), or mature-phase. Sample size limitations or interactions between site age and substrate precluded categorization of all species. Thirty-eight percent (9/24) of the tree species were successional, a result which contrasts sharply with data from (formerly) continental forest in Panama. Spatial distributions of 33 species revealed 17 species exhibiting clumping or hyperdispersion (i.e., regular spacing) in at least one site. Possible non-anthropogenic mechanisms promoting clumping in the plots were (a) topography (edaphic), (b) gap affiliation, (c) inefficient or altered patterns of propagule dispersal, and (d) lack of natural seedling predators. Forest structure differed across site type, with stem densities highest in regenerating forest; conversely, regenerating forest had the lowest basal areas. Steep talus forest sequestered the most carbon (344.3
20146623| The gap dynamics of two Nothofagus pumilio (lenga) stands have been investigated. We evaluated and compared tree diameter distributions, spatial patterns, tree fall and gap characteristics and regeneration responses in gaps in two old-growth forests of Nothofagus pumilio in Southern Chile (Shangri-La: 3660 S, 7130 W; Reserva Coyhaique: 4552 S, 7200 W). In addition, we describe relationships between gap size and regeneration characteristics. We detected some differences in tree and sapling densities between sites. The causes of gap formation and the gap size distribution, mean gap area, and gap fraction were similar, but gap abundance was different at the two sites. The Reserva Coyhaique site had 15 gaps/ha compared to 10 gaps/ha for Shangri-La. Sizes of clumps of trees were within the range of sizes of canopy gaps at both sites. The density of saplings was higher in gaps than under closed forest at R. Coyhaique, but not at Shangri-La. We found that sapling densities were unrelated to gap size in both sites. The lower sapling density in gaps at Shangri-La might be explained by the presence of Chusquea quila, a competitive pioneer bamboo species. The height increment was related to gap size at Shangri-La, but not at R. Coyhaique. Gap size itself does not account for all the variation in recruitment performance in these Southern beech stands. 
40540360|It has been recently proposed that the decrease in diversity towards the severe end of the humped-back diversity-biomass model of Grime was driven by a collapse of facilitation due to extreme conditions of either stress or physical disturbance. In order to test the hypothesis that disturbance is the primary direct factor driving the collapse of interactions occurring along environmental severity gradients, we conducted a removal experiment in the highly stressed French coastal dunes along a gradient of disturbance due to sand burial. Four dune species were used as targets and transplanted with and without neighbours in four communities along the gradient. The experiment was conducted twice, a dry and an average year. Results of the experiment showed that during the dry year the effect of the environment was prominent and only one species was facilitated for survival in the least disturbed community. During the average year, interactions for growth were important only in the same community, with positive or negative responses depending on the natural position of the target species within the coastal dune gradient. In accordance with our hypothesis, most interactions for both survival and growth were observed in the least disturbed community exhibiting the highest diversity. There were no interactions in the most disturbed community with the lowest diversity.
20051338|Extensive landscape modification by humans has led to the fragmentation of riparian forests across North America. We compared the vegetation of extant riparian forest along an urban-rural disturbance gradient. In 1999, twenty-five sites along Assiniboine River in Manitoba, Canada were categorized according to land use: urban, suburban, high intensity rural, low intensity rural, and relatively high quality reference forest. Differences in herbaceous, shrub, and tree species composition and diversity were related to the proportion of surrounding land use, forest patch size, connectivity, and area:perimeter ratio. Urban riparian forests were more disturbed and isolated. They were smaller and characterized by drier, more alkaline soils. Moreover, they had significantly lower native and overall understorey species diversity, and had a higher proportion of exotics including Solanum dulcamara and Hesperis matronalis. Suburban forests were less disturbed, faced greater development pressure, and had sandier soils. Although suburban understorey diversity was similar to that of rural forests, suburban sites had a higher proportion of exotic species, especially escaped horticultural and invasive species including Caragana arborescens and Rhamnus cathartica. Reference sites were relatively large and exhibited greater connectivity, but there was little difference in species composition and diversity among high intensity rural, low intensity rural, and reference sites. These site types were less disturbed than either urban or suburban forests, and reference sites were characterized by hydrophilic species including Scirpus fluviatilis and Carex aquatilis. Our results suggest that landscape measures of disturbance, and related changes in environment, may be confidently used to assess impacts of land use on vegetation along urban-rural gradients.
40540364|We evaluated the process of salt-marsh colonization in early successional stages of saltmarsh restoration and investigated how the sequence of species establishment related to different success factors. Vegetation data were collected by permanent plots from the restoration site and adjacent, reference salt marshes during three consecutive periods. Seed length, width and mass were used as dispersal traits, and Ellenberg moisture, salinity and nutrient indices as indicators of site suitability. Seed production in the reference site and seed bank in the restoration site were also investigated. The establishment of saltmarsh species within the restoration site was rapid (less than 5 years). The cover of plant species was not correlated between the restored and the reference sites at the first year of restoration, but this correlation was significant during the following years. Seed availability was more important in explaining the sequence of species establishment than salt and nutrient-limitation tolerance. The first colonizers are known as massive seed producers, with shorter seed length and lower seed mass, which probably increased buoyancy. Among dispersal and site traits, seed length and mass, and in a less extent salinity and nutrients, indicated a relationship with new colonizers. Despite few species have not (yet) appeared in vegetation and seed bank in the restoration site, the existence of an existing salt marsh adjacent to the restoration site is shown to be vital for fast colonization of newly created intertidal areas.
20146365|Zigadenus fremontii is often a striking component of the flora following fire in the chaparral. Like other geophytes, it produces large numbers of flowers in the first spring after a burn. Although these plants are most conspicuous in the early postfire environment, the question that remains is, how do they persist in the interval between fires? To address this we investigated differences in the growth and reproduction of Z. fremontii in burned and unburned chaparral. We monitored marked individuals for nine years at three sites: two that were burned in 1990 and one in the same area that was in unburned mature chaparral. We measured leaf area, and production of flowers and fruits. We also conducted seed experiments in the field to determine the rates and timing of germination. We found that reproduction occurs only in the immediate postfire period: flowering and production of fruits and seeds in the first year following fire, and seedling establishment by year 3. There was a cost of reproduction; plants that flowered (in the burn area) had negative growth rates the following year. In contrast, plants in unburned chaparral, which did not flower, had positive growth rates over the same period. Moreover, plants that produced the most flowers had the lowest growth rates. In the unburned chaparral site, plants were not dormant as predicted from previous literature; instead they produced leaves nearly every year. In most years the average leaf area per plant was greater than that in the burned sites. Our results indicate that postfire reproduction depends on growth and carbohydrate storage in the inter-fire period. We also suggest that this species is relatively long-lived for a herbaceous perennial.
20146415|In desert environments the main input to the seed bank of many succulents is the seed rain through zoochory while high levels of granivory by rodents, birds and ants are the main cause of subsequent losses. In the patchy environment of arid lands the characteristics of both processes may vary between habitats causing differences in the recruitment of new genets. To test this hypothesis we used populations of the desert cactus Opuntia rastrera which has different recruitment rates in the two adjacent habitats where it grows. In Opuntia-dominated scrublands (nopaleras, density ca. 4,000 plants/ha) 1 seedling out of 7,000,000 seeds establish, whereas in grasslands (density ca. 100 plants/ha) this ratio is 1:20,000. From 1996 until 1998 the seed rain, seed removal by granivores and seed abundance in the soil were monitored in both habitats. Results showed striking differences in the dynamics of the seed bank of both habitats. Seed rain was 8.5 times bigger in nopaleras than in grasslands. In nopaleras most seeds were removed by rodents while the quantities of seeds removed by rodents, birds and ants in grasslands were similar. One year after dispersal (the time necessary to break seed dormancy) only 6% of original nopalera seeds and 12% of grassland seeds remained. After germination trials only 1% (ca. 15,000 seeds/ha) and 2% (ca. 2,500 seeds/ha) respectively were viable. These differences in the effective seed bank (6 times bigger in nopaleras) can not explain the differences in genet recruitment (which is several orders of magnitude bigger in grasslands). Apparently the between habitat difference in nurse plant availability and in rodent density (which inflict a strong hervibory upon seedlings) can explain the differences in genet recruitment. It is speculated that this between habitat difference in genet recruitment suggests that the species evolved in less extreme environments (e.g. grasslands) than desert scrublands which, in turn, are colonised due to the singular ability of O. rastrera for vegetative propagation.
20050852|The ground vegetation of an evergreen broad-leaved Persea thunbergii-dominated forest on Kanmurijima Island has been heavily damaged by a ground-burrowing seabird, the streaked shearwater (Calonectris leucomelas). To clarify the effects of seabird trampling and burrowing on the recruitment of tree seedlings, 22 paired quadrats, protected and unprotected against seabirds, were laid out under various degrees of canopy coverage, ranging from heavy- to light-shade. Protection from seabird activities resulted in an increase in species richness of tree seedlings. Seabird activities had a significant effect on tree seedling diversity, while canopy coverage was shown to be important for herbaceous species diversity. Though seedling emergence of Persea thunbergii, the evergreen canopy dominant, was not affected by seabird activities and canopy coverage, that of Mallotus japonicus, a deciduous pioneer tree, was negatively affected by the both factors. Seabird activities and evergreen heavy-shade canopy negatively affected seedling survivorship of both species. Low survivorship in seedlings of the canopy species may doom the present-day warm-temperate evergreen forest of Persea thunbergii on the island. Mechanical impacts of trampling and burrowing and the resulting soil erosion may play an important role in forest regeneration and dynamics.
20051143|Stand structure including spatial patterns was studied in northern hardwood and mixed forest types in the 2000-ha old-growth Big Reed Forest Reserve in northern Maine using complete stem mapping, dendrochronology, and spatial analyses on  0.5 ha plots. The inclusion of saplings, dead wood, age distributions, spatial pattern, and interactions provided some idea of underlying processes and temporal change. Structural characteristics were most comparable to spruce-northern hardwood forests of northern New England and New York, and most characteristics matched expected patterns for old-growth forests of the region. Results indicated smaller maximum-tree sizes, lower basal areas (26-34 m/ha) and downed-wood volumes (29-64 m/ha), higher densities (475-649 stems/ha), but similar species longevities compared to other mesic old-growth forests further south and in the Lake States. The stands were dominated by very shade-tolerant tree species, including Fagus grandifolia Ehrh., Acer saccharum Marsh., Picea rubens Sarg. and Abies balsamea (L.) Mill, with each species found in many crown positions and age and size classes. The sapling layer was dominated by Fagus grandifolia followed by Picea rubens. Most species had reverse-J shaped diameter distributions, but age distributions were indicative of synchronous, episodic recruitment. In most plots, Acer saccharum diameter distributions were skewed towards the mid-larger size classes. Lack of young and small Acer saccharum stems suggested change in forest composition towards Fagus grandifolia dominance. Most species formed small-scale clusters ( 15 m) perhaps in response to small gap disturbances. Snags were the dominant dead wood type and were randomly to regularly distributed in most plots. Logfall directions were unrelated to hurricane paths. Recent small-scale disturbance events and topographic position appear to be important in explaining current structure and dynamics of the hardwood and mixed forests of Big Reed Forest Reserve in northern Maine. the continued effects of beech bark disease had a greater effect on hardwood plots, whereas a recent spruce budworm outbreak had a greater effect on plots with higher conifer density. The dominance of very shade tolerant tree species in small-scale clusters, and randomly distributed snags rather than clustered uproots were indicative of the prevalence of small scale gap disturbance regimes in the hardwood and mixed forests of Big Reed Forest Reserve in northern Maine. Varying topographic position may allow for slight changes in disturbance regime leading to consequent variation in structure and dynamics. H1, a more open plot on upper exposed slopes, had distinctly different characteristics such as lower live and dead tree and sapling densities than the other plots, but more uprooted trees and Acer saccharum saplings. Such small scale gap disturbance regimes operating on an episodic basis, and effects of slight variations in this regime on stand composition and structure have significant implications for silvicultural interventions and management of these forest types.
40607009|Coastal dune forest succession frequently proceeds via the Acacia karroo pathway, but may become arrested. We examine whether soil fertility arrests forest succession in A. karroo stands in coastal dune forest in KwaZulu-Natal province, South Africa. We examined soil fertility of A. karroo stands, the adjacent forest, and forested dune slacks at Cape Vidal, and four rehabilitating A. karroo stands (13-to 28-yr-old) at Richards Bay. The effect of nitrogen supplementation on growth of three tree species (a forest pioneer, a late successional forest species, and A. karroo) was compared between A. karroo stands and adjacent dune forest at Cape Vidal. Soil fertility in A. karroo stands and the adjacent forest at Cape Vidal was similar and neither total nor readily mineralisable nitrogen were limiting in either habitat. At Richards Bay, where the dunes were previously strip-mined, total nitrogen accumulated rapidly (2.18.0 g N m yr) and the oldest rehabilitating A. karroo stands (26-28 yr) had similar total nitrogen and other soil nutrient levels as stands twice their age at Cape Vidal. Seedling growth was unaffected by nitrogen supplementation. All species grew fastest in A. karroo stands demonstrating that soil nutrient levels in disturbed forest colonised by A. karroo are suitable for the growth of forest tree species. Soil fertility, including available nitrogen, is not limiting secondary succession at Cape Vidal, yet forest species are not replacing A. karroo stands at this site. Post-emergence factors, such as herbivory, are likely responsible for the arrested succession of forest in A. karroo stands.
41508816|Plants often combine multiple strategies to achieve pollen transfer. The dioecious Clusia nemorosa (Clusiaceae) produces floral resin, a specialized reward for resin-collecting bees. It also exhibits floral automimicry with female flowers mimicking male flowers in order to attract pollen-collecting insects. We observed the hourly visitation frequency and behaviour of bee visitors on two rock savanna sites in French Guiana. The major strategy in pollen transfer and the variation in visitation rates among visitor species were examined. We hypothesized that the visitation rate will vary between the floral sexes and degree of this variation will differ between the two-reward systems. We found no evidence for visits being exclusively related to resin collection, which we expected to be the principal strategy in pollen transfer. Deceit pollination appeared to have minor importance and seemed to be locally associated with the site, where demand for pollen was greater. Flower visits that probably facilitated most pollen transfer, combined resin and pollen. The pollinators involved in this system collected pollen from male flowers and resin from female flowers. The fruit set was not particularly low (44.19%) so offering different rewards by different flower genders has not constrained reproductive success in this system. Pronounced variation in visitation rates between sexes was not related to the pollination mechanisms but to the demand for the two rewards. Overall demand for pollen was greater than demand for resin. Female flowers were visited much less frequently than male flowers. Peak pollen collection occurred in the morning, i.e., as soon as the resource was available, while resin was collected throughout the day. There was a local variability in demand for the two resources because both the visitation rate and the behaviour of foraging bees varied between the two observation sites.
40926896|Abandonment and fragmentation are the primary causes of decline for many light-demanding grassland species in the modern agricultural landscape.In order to maintain a flora rich in such species, design of management practices based upon knowledge of life-history consequences following management shifts is essential. In this study, we investigated the demography of the perennial grassland species Plantago lanceolata for 4 years in one mulched site and two abandoned sites to compare how the two treatments influenced population dynamics.Compared to abandonment, mulching had a small but positive effect on the population growth rate () of P. lanceolata. In both the mulched and the abandoned sites, growth and stasis among the largest plants contributed most strongly to , while the contribution of fecundity was negligible in both treatments,  of P. lanceolata varied more between years than between treatments, most notably because  values below unity were observed in the abandoned sites in a 1-year period that included a severe winter.The population of the mulched site consisted of larger ramets and had higher clonal growth rates than the populations of the abandoned sites. This explains the apparently higher resilience to unfavorable climatic conditions in the mulched site. We conclude that management by mulching is better than abandonment for the long-term persistence of P. lanceolata. However, due to low recruitment also in the mulched site, even mulching may be insufficient for P. lanceolata to persist over long time periods.
41429064|Competition and resource availability influence invasions into native perennial grasslands by nonnative annual grasses such as Bromus tectorum. In two greenhouse experiments we examined the influence of competition, water availability, and elevated nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) availability on growth and reproduction of the invasive annual grass B. tectorum and two native perennial grasses (Elymus elymoides, Pascopyrum smithii). Bromus tectorum aboveground biomass and seed production were significantly reduced when grown with one or more established native perennial grasses. Conversely, average seed weight and germination were significantly lower in the B. tectorum monoculture than in competition native perennial grasses. Intraspecific competition reduced per-plant production of both established native grasses, whereas interspecific competition from B. tectorum increased production. Established native perennial grasses were highly competitive against B. tectorum, regardless of water, N, or P availability. Bromus tectorum reproductive potential (viable seed production) was not significantly influenced by any experimental manipulation, except for competition with P. smithii. In all cases, B. tectorum per-plant production of viable seeds exceeded parental replacement. Our results show that established plants of Elymus elymoides and Pascopyrum smithii compete successfully against B. tectorum over a wide range of soil resource availability.
20146894|The resistance to experimental, highly frequent disturbance has been analysed in three congeneric, strong-resprouter species (Erica australis, E. scoparia and E. arborea) that co-occur in heath-dominated communities of the northern side of the Strait of Gibraltar, southern Spain. To do so, mature individuals of the three species from a long undisturbed location were clipped at the ground level every sixth month during two years. The relationship between the resprouted biomass dry weight (as indicative of the resprouting vigour) and the upper surface area of the lignotuber along the experiment was established separately for each species at each clipping event by means of linear regressions analysis. The resprouting vigour of the three species was compared by means of independent one-way ANOVAs within each clipping event. Resprouting vigour decreased after recurrent clippings in the three species. Nevertheless, significant differences between species in this loss of resprouting vigour were detected, being E. scoparia the most resistant to the experimental, highly frequent clipping. It is concluded that experimental levels of recurrent disturbance may help to find out differences in resilience within similar (taxonomically, morfologically and/or ecologically), strong-resprouter plant species. Considering the history of forestry management in the nothern side of the Strait of Gibraltar, differences in this regard between the three Erica species may contribute to explain their somewhat segregated ecological distribution in this region.
20050669|Leaf photosynthetic characteristics, distribution patterns of nitrogen content per unit leaf area (
20050491|The impact of soil cover organization on the forest community has been studied in a 19-ha tract at Piste de St Elie station in French Guiana. 195 species each represented by at least 10 individuals were chosen from records of the position, diameter at breast height (dbh) and precise identification by botanical sampling of 12 104 ligneous plants (dbh  10 cm). Spatial variations in the soil were mapped using the method proposed by Boulet et al. (1982). The soil mapping units correspond to the successive stages of evolution of a currently unbalanced ferralitic cover. These stages describe firstly the thinning by erosion of the microaggregated upper horizon and secondly the mineralogical changes under more or less extended hydromorphic conditions. The degree of evolution of ferralitic cover is also related to the hydrodynamic functioning and chemical properties of the soil. Geological substrate, topography and slope have also been taken into account. Analysis of the influence of environmental variables on plant cover has been performed using the Ecological Profiles method and Correspondence Analysis (CA) of the table of ecological profiles. The forest community seems to be dependent on the soil and the topographical features that govern it. There are significant, exclusive soil-species links for each soil functioning mapping unit. However, the highest proportion of significant positive links is connected with a thick microaggregated horizon (25%). Several species are of real value as indicators and more particularly enable differentiation between the forest stands of typical ferralitic soil and the ones of thinned out, transformed and hydromorphic soils. The CA of the species by environmental variables matrices reveals two significant factorial axes. The first can be associated with the drainage mainly related to the thinning of the soil and the second with the hydromorphic conditions related to the topography. The vegetation ordination of the stands ( 0.25 ha) delimited in the various soil domains clearly shows that changes in ferralitic cover and in particular the transition from soil with deep vertical drainage to soil with superficial lateral drainage is accompanied by substantial changes in the forest community.
20050896|Dendroecological and numerical methods were used to study the influence of topographic position on radial growth of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) stands exposed to soil dryness. The correlation structure of total tree-ring width and latewood width of eight scattered populations representing various topographic habitats (steep south-facing slopes, plateaus and hollows) within a rock-slide area (750 m a.s.l.) of about 1 km was investigated by principal component analysis. Scatter plots of component loadings indicated that (i) total ring width and latewood width are influenced by various climatic factors, (ii) stands growing at similar topographic position show a high agreement in year-to-year variability of radial growth, and (iii) distinct effects of topographic features (slope aspect, slope magnitude) on tree growth are modified by local disturbances (erosion, grazing) and the age structure of stands. Furthermore, both the time series of component scores and non-metric multidimensional scaling of chronologies indicated years where extremely limiting or favorable climate conditions prevailed throughout the study area (pointer years). The influence of climate on tree growth in various topographic habitats was mediated through the influence of climatically stressful years. Because stands are located at sites with different levels of water stress, growth differences between chronologies are considered to be caused by site-specific susceptibility of tree growth to soil dryness. Significant correlations between precipitation in April to June and ring-width confirm that water availability is the primary growth-limiting factor within the study area. These small-scale variations in growth-climate relationships have significant implications for dendroclimatological studies. So paleoclimatic reconstructions based on tree rings will have to assure that an unbiased data set is used, which compensates for local growth-variabilities due to site related environmental stresses.
20050859|Obligate seeding species are highly specialized to fire disturbance and many conifers such as cypress, which are adapted to high intensity stand-replacing fires, have canopy seed banks stored in serotinous cones. Resilience of these trees to fire disturbance is a function of disturbance frequency and one focus of this study was to determine the effect of patch age on postfire recruitment. A second focus was to determine the extent to which fire induced a landscape level change in the location of the forest boundary. Prior to a fire in 1994, a large Cupressus sargentii forest was a mosaic landscape of different aged patches of nearly pure cypress bordered by chaparral. Patches less than 60 years of age were relatively dense with roughly one tree every 1-2 m but older patches had thinned to one tree every 3-15 m. Older trees had substantially greater canopy cone crops but the stand level seed bank size was not significantly correlated with stand age. Fire-dependent obligate seeding species are sensitive to fire return interval because of potential changes in the size of seed banks -- facing both a potential 'immaturity risk' and a 'senescence risk'. At our site, C. sargentii regeneration was substantial in stands as young as 20 years, suggesting that fire return interval would need to be shorter than this to pose any significant risk. Reduced seedling recruitment in stands nearly 100 years of age may indicate risk from senescence is greater, however, even the lowest density seedling recruitment was many times greater than the density of mature forests -- thus this cypress would appear to be resilient to a wide range of fire return intervals. Changes in landscape patterning of forest and chaparral are unlikely except after fire. Factors that inhibit tree establishment within the shrubland, as well as factors that affect shrub establishment within the forest border likely affect the 'permeability' of this ecotone. After the 1994 fire this boundary appeared to be stable in that cypress recruited best within the shadow of burned canopies and cypress were weak invaders of adjacent shrublands.
20146717|In this study we examine the relationships between the vegetation of beech and beech-oak forest communities (Hordelymo-Fagetum, Galio-Fagetum, Deschampsio-Fagetum, Betulo-Quercetum) and their soil conditions in the lowlands of northern Germany, based on 84 sample plots. In all plots the vegetation was recorded and soil parameters were analysed (thickness of the O- and the A-horizons, pH, S-value, base saturation, C/N, mean Ellenberg moisture indicator value). The vegetation classification according to the traditional Braun-Blanquet approach was compared with the result of a multivariate cluster analysis. Vegetation-site relationships were analysed by means of an indirect gradient analysis (DCA). Both traditional classification methods and the cluster analysis have produced comparable classification results. So far as the species composition is concerned, a similar grouping of sample plots was found in both approaches. Multivariate cluster analysis thus supports the classification found by the Braun-Blanquet method. The result of the DCA shows that the four forest communities mentioned above represent clearly definable ecological units. The main site factor influencing changes in the species composition is a base gradient, which is best expressed by the S-value. In addition, within the series Hordelymo-Fagetum -- Galio-Fagetum -- Deschampsio-Fagetum the C/N-ratios and the thickness of the organic layers (O-horizon) increase continuously. By contrast, the floristic differences between oligotrophic forest communities (i.e., Deschampsio-Fagetum and Betulo-Quercetum) cannot be explained by a base gradient and increasing C/N-ratios. It is suggested that a different forest management history in some cases (e.g., promotion of Quercus robur by silvicultural treatments) is responsible for differences in the species composition, but on the other hand the result of the DCA indicates that Fagus sylvatica is replaced by Quercus robur with increasing soil moisture (i.e., with the increasing influence of a high groundwater table). Summarizing these results, it can be concluded that the ecological importance of single site factors affecting the species composition changes within the entire site spectrum covered by the beech and beech-oak forests of northern Germany.
20146535|In an East African savanna herbaceous layer productivity and species composition were studied around Acacia tortilis trees of three different age classes, as well as around dead trees and in open grassland patches. The effects of trees on nutrient, light and water availability were measured to obtain an insight into which resources determine changes in productivity and composition of the herbaceous layer. Soil nutrient availability increased with tree age and size and was lowest in open grassland and highest under dead trees. The lower N:P ratios of grasses from open grassland compared to grasses from under trees suggested that productivity in open grassland was limited by nitrogen, while under trees the limiting nutrient was probably P. N:P ratios of grasses growing under bushes and small trees were intermediate between large trees and open grassland indicating that the understorey of Acacia trees seemed to change gradually from a N-limited to a P-limited vegetation. Soil moisture contents were lower under than those outside of canopies of large Acacia trees suggesting that water competition between trees and grasses was important. Species composition of the herbaceous layer under Acacia trees was completely different from the vegetation in open grassland. Also the vegetation under bushes of Acacia tortilis was different from both open grassland and the understorey of large trees. The main factor causing differences in species composition was probably nutrient availability because species compositions were similar for stands of similar soil nutrient concentrations even when light and water availability was different. Changes in species composition did not result in differences in above-ground biomass, which was remarkably similar under different sized trees and in open grassland. The only exception was around dead trees where herbaceous plant production was 60% higher than under living trees. The results suggest that herbaceous layer productivity did not increase under trees by a higher soil nutrient availability, probably because grass production was limited by competition for water. This was consistent with the high plant production around dead trees because when trees die, water competition disappears but the high soil nutrient availability remains. Hence, in addition to tree soil nutrient enrichment, below-ground competition for water appears to be an important process regulating tree-grass interactions in semi-arid savanna.
23267476|Euptelea pleiospermum is an "old rare" tree species distributed along the high-elevation streamsides in Burma, China, and India. Deforestation and construction of roads for timber transport have highly fragmented the natural habitats of this species in the Shennongjia Forestry District. In this study, we used this fragmentation to test the hypothesis that "old rare" tree species are insusceptible to the genetic consequences of habitat fragmentation. Using eight microsatellite loci, we estimated allelic richness (A R ), observed heterozygosity (H O ), expected heterozygosity (H E ), Wright's inbreeding coefficient (F IS ), and genetic differentiation (F ST and D EST ) between pre- and post-fragmentation cohorts. We found no significant differences in either genetic diversity or genetic differentiation between the two cohorts. The limited genetic effects of fragmentation may result from too few fragmented generations, because the time between the start of fragmentation (year 1970) and our study (year 2008) was less than one generation of this tree species. It should be mentioned that clonal reproduction by sprouting, a common phenomenon in many "old rare" tree species, can help E. pleiospermum buffer the genetic impacts of fragmentation by delaying the time between generations. Therefore, we conclude that this "old rare" tree species show limited genetic impacts from recent habitat fragmentation. However, the elimination of rare alleles and increase of inbreeding coefficient in the post-fragmentation cohort are early warnings of deleterious genetic consequences of fragmentation. Our results provide valuable information to formulate conservation and restoration guidelines for E. pleiospermum.
23362527|For the last 50 years, Chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) population exponentially increased in the French Alps. This herbivore faces a food shortage in the winter; its diet mainly includes woody species (Abies alba Mill.) and brambles (Rubus fruticosus). The physiological response following simulated herbivory of these two plants was assessed. More precisely, the effects of leaf clipping and ungulate saliva application on the epidermal flavonoids and chlorophyll contents were considered as an induced structural response. The chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm) was also measured to provide information on the photosynthesis status as an induced functional response. The non-invasive techniques used in this experiment highlighted an induced response, emerging during the days following the simulated herbivory. R. fruticosus was drastically affected, photosynthesis was disturbed (decreased Fv/Fm) and mortality began on day 5 reaching 100 % less than 1 week later. Physiological parameters were also affected in A. alba (slight decrease of Fv/Fm and lower content of flavonoids), but this species recovered and survived no matter what the stressing treatment was. These results did not point out an efficient repulsive-induced response of A. alba and R. fruticosus to herbivory. The existence of constitutive defences such as prickles (R. fruticosus) or low-digestible tannins (A. alba) is no more efficient to escape from ungulates consumption. Nevertheless, in spite of the increase of the ungulates exponential demography, these two plants do not face rarefaction problem in the French Alps. Thus, survival of A. alba stands is probably linked to the recovery ability of saplings, when R. fruticosus stands maintain themselves thanks to the strong resprouting capacity of this species.
40212898|Environmental perturbations can alter the composition of plant communities, either directly, by altering growth of some species more than others, or indirectly, by altering the strength of interspecific interactions among species. The relative importance of direct and indirect effects is not at all well known. We used an experimental approach to quantifying direct and indirect effects of fungicide on the composition of a plant community. To separate the direct and indirect impacts of fungicide we grew plant species in monoculture and mixed communities, and with and without the systemic fungicide benomyl. We predicted that direct effects of fungicide would be important at low but not high nutrient availability, while indirect effects would be more important at high nutrient availability. After 3 years there was little impact of fungicide on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal colonization, and on soil microbial community composition assessed as the relative abundance of different phospholipid fatty acids. Like fertilizer, fungicide increased plant biomass. However, in contrast to fertilizer, this did not result in a decline in species evenness. Although not significant, the direct effects of fungicide tended to oppose the indirect effects of both fungicide and interspecific interactions on plant community composition. Experiments relying on fungicide treatments must be interpreted extremely cautiously, because the impact of fungicide is potentially the integrated response of plants to multiple factors, including arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, pathogenic and saprophytic fungi, and nutrient inputs.
40212936|We examined variation in species composition in a low-diversity, anthropogenic grassland in response to 11 years of nitrogen (N) manipulation and disturbance. The speciespoor grassland (2-3 species/0.5 m) represents a wide spread vegetation type (>10 million ha in North America) dominated by the introduced perennial grasses Bromus inermis and Agropyron cristatum. Four levels of N and three of soil disturbance were applied in all combinations to plots (5 x 15 m, N = 120) in a completely randomized design each year. Seeds or transplants of 47 species were added to ensure that dispersal was not a barrier to changes in species composition. After 11 years of treatment, all but the most disturbed plots continued to be dominated by B. inermis. The cover of the second- most abundant species, A. cristatum, decreased with disturbance but did not vary significantly with N. Despite the lack of changes in the identity of the dominant species, our environmental manipulations strongly influenced ecosystem characteristics. Added N increased soil available N, and decreased the cover of bare ground and light availability. Soil disturbance decreased aboveground biomass, and increased the cover of bare ground and light availability. Sawdust application, designed to decrease N availability, significantly reduced community biomass, and increased light availability and the cover of bare ground, but did not alter nutrient availability or species composition. The results highlight the difficulty of restoring diversity in species-poor, anthropogenic communities dominated by introduced species, and thus the importance of conserving remnants of diverse natural grasslands.
20146608|Reforestation of bottomland hardwood sites in the southeastern United States has markedly increased in recent years due, in part, to financial incentives provided by conservation programs. Currently &gt 250,000 ha of marginal farmland have been returned to hardwood forests. I observed establishment of trees and shrubs on 205 reforested bottomlands: 133 sites were planted primarily with oak species (Quercus spp.), 60 sites were planted with pulpwood producing species (Populus deltoides, Liquidambar styraciflua, or Platanus occidentalis), and 12 sites were not planted (i.e., passive regeneration). Although oak sites were planted with more species, sites planted with pulpwood species were more rapidly colonized by additional species. The density of naturally colonizing species exceeded that of planted species but density of invaders decreased rapidly with distance from forest edge. Trees were shorter in height on sites planted with oaks than on sites planted with pulpwood species but within a site, planted trees attained greater heights than did colonizing species. Thus, planted trees dominated the canopy of reforested sites as they matured. Planted species acted in concert with natural invasion to influence the current condition of woody vegetation on reforested sites. Cluster analysis of species importance values distinguished three woody vegetation conditions: (1) Populus deltoides stands (2) oak stands with little natural invasion by other tree species, and (3) stands dominated by planted or naturally invading species other than oaks. Increased diversity on reforested sites would likely result from (a) greater diversity of planted species, particularly when sites are far from existing forest edges and (b) thinning of planted trees as they attain closed canopies.
40540346|Acidification and N-deposition are continuous processes that alter the composition of plant communities. We investigated vegetation transitions in sandy grasslands and tested two hypotheses: (1) a shift from vegetation dominated by Koeleria glauca to one dominated by Corynephorus canescens is due to acidification and (2) a shift from vegetation dominated by K. glauca to one dominated by Arrhenatherum elatius is due to increased mineral-N. The occurrence of K. glauca and C. canescens followed pH shifts strikingly well. However, the pH varied considerably between sites, and we found that differences in preference for bare sand may be important for the coexistence of these two species at both high and low pH. In 75% of the gradients, the dominance of A. elatius was related to high content of mineral-N. Most species preferred lime-rich soils and we concluded that both N-enrichment and acidification may lead to loss of species in calcareous sandy grasslands.
20051314|The effects of drought on radial growth of Pinus sylvestris were investigated by comparing sites along hydric gradients. The gradients were located in Valais, an inner Alpine dry valley in Switzerland, with each consisting of two site types, an extreme dry, xeric site and a less dry, moderate site. The two site types were assigned to phytosociological associations within the Erico-Pinion. The investigation covered the responses of tree growth to climate and particularly concentrated on intra-annual features of tree-rings such as earlywood/latewood ratio, intra-annual density fluctuations (IADFs) and traumatic tissues (TTs) as well as the sapwood/heartwood ratio. Radial growth differed according to the site types, with trees on dry sites generally showing more missing rings, lower mean ring widths, lower autocorrelation, higher mean sensitivities, reduced latewood proportions and lower sapwood areas than trees on moderate sites. The relationships between climate and tree-ring width, studied using response function analysis, varied strongly between the site types within the Erico-Pinion: Tree growth on dry sites was positively influenced by precipitation at the end of the winter and the beginning of the growing season and negatively influenced by temperature in June. Winter precipitation was positively correlated with radial growth, demonstrating its importance for the successful root and shoot growth of the plants in spring on dry sites. On moderate sites, tree growth was less controlled by climate than by prior growth. The intra-annual density fluctuations (IADFs) provided a valuable means to differentiate between the site types. In comparison to the moderate sites, the trees on dry sites contained more IADFs, and their frequency was increased. Moist-cool conditions in the middle of the growing season were the triggering factor for IADFs on dry sites, whereas on moderate sites, there must be an additional warm period in early summer in order to initiate IADFs. Most IADFs were found in latewood. We found no relationship between climate and traumatic tissues (TTs). It is unclear whether other abiotic or biotic factors such as wounding by insects or birds are responsible for the development of TTs. The assignment of these differences in tree growth behaviour to phytosociological associations will enable a deeper understanding of the site types and will facilitate the comparison with similar studies. Furthermore, the results can be combined with studies from other scientific disciplines concerning these phytosociological associations. The ecological indicator values of the vegetation was a precise method for the distinction of site types.
20051070|Study of the forest canopy has reached a critical stage in its development from a young 'frontier' area of study to a vibrant and coalescing field of investigation and communication. Many current environmental and social issues at global scales (e.g., environmental change, acid deposition, loss of biodiversity) are related directly to our knowledge of forest canopies. I present six activities that are needed to help the vibrant and growing field of forest canopy studies progress efficiently. Enabling canopy researchers to communicate with each other and with those outside our field is an important element to address these issues. The establishment of a graduate-level training program is also a high priority to generate and maintain a healthy discipline. Formal procedures to identify particular forest sites of critical concern should be initiated, and these should include communication of prioritized sites to conservation groups and policy makers. Instilling a sense of wonder and appreciation for organisms and interactions in non-scientists is another important avenue for forest canopy conservation.
40666619|We assessed the effects of topographic heterogeneity and stem density on species composition between grains of different sizes (20  20, 50  50, and 100  100 m), based on partial Mantel tests. Similarity in species composition was measured by the abundance-based Jaccard index (C_ J) and by an index that incorporates phylogenetic information into C_ J (pC_ J). Plants were divided into five groups, arbor, subarbor, and shrub according to life form and two other groups: species that produce dry fruits (PDF) and that produce fleshy fruits (PFF). C_ J and pC_ J between any two grains at each grain size were calculated separately for these groups and for all species combined. In order to examine what influences C_ J and pC_ J, we analyzed their correlations with topographic heterogeneity variables and two dispersal limitation-related variables (stem and topographic resistance). Our data indicate that at all three grain sizes, C_ J and pC_ J decrease with increasing distance for all plant groups. Dispersal limitation and topographic heterogeneity were both important at 20  20 and 50  50 m grain sizes for C_ J and pC_ J of all plant groups; and at 100  100 m grain size, topographic heterogeneity dominates over dispersal limitation for some plant groups. C_ J and pC_ J of PDFs are less negatively correlated with stem resistance than those of PFFs. We conclude that both beta diversity and phylobetadiversity are dependent on plant groups and grain sizes.
20146355|Cork oak forests in Mediterranean, southeastern France represent an important ecosystem in terms of both ecological and economical values, but are declining due to conservation problems. While management protocols are now in place for the long-term conservation of this ecotype, we require a better understanding of cork oak nutrition to assist with management. Here we use foliar nutrient analyses for two objectives: firstly, to assess to what extent variations in nutrient content are explained by seasonal and spatial variability, and second, to document the nutrient dynamics of cork oak trees in natural conditions during one biological cycle (16 months) in the Maures massif (western part of the siliceous Provence). Main results showed that time was the primary factor influencing cork oak nutrition and was mainly expressed by leaf ageing process. Spatial variability was a 'secondary determinant' of nutrient variations, but was more important at the very early stages of leaf growth according to leafing and nutrient flushing, and reduced with leaf age. Nutritional responses of cork oak trees fitted general trends observed in the literature, with some regional differences. The properties of siliceous soil also influenced the uptake of some nutrients.
20050740|In this study we present the first comprehensive multivariate analysis of beech (Fagus sylvatica) forest communities in the Nordic countries. The history of beech and beech forests in Scandinavia are described. In the north, the species is climatically restrained and, at present, restricted to Denmark and the southern parts of Sweden and Norway. More than 2000 sample plots were compiled, partly from literature, partly from new and unpublished data. The material included more than 20 studies of beech forests, often recorded by different non-standardised sampling designs. Therefore, prior to data analysis, a large number of plots had to be excluded to reduce the heterogeneity of the data. Only such sample plots were considered that showed a predominance of Fagus sylvatica in the canopy, that had a size within the interval of 16-100 m, and that could be located by geographical coordinates. All species abundance values were transformed into simple species presences, and data from different vegetation layers were merged into one. A TWINSPAN cluster analysis resulted in 15 types. Three main communities with several sub-communities and varieties can be distinguished: (1) the Fagus sylvatica-Fraxinus excelsior-Stachys sylvatica community on the most basic and fertile soils, (2) the Fagus sylvatica-Corylus avellana-Galium odoratum community on moderately fertile and acid soils, and (3) the Fagus sylvatica-Sorbus aucuparia-Deschampsia flexuosa community on very acid and oligotrophic soils. Synonyms in the recent literature on Nordic beech forests to these communities are given. An ordination with the program DECORANA confirmed the primary significance of soil acidity and nutrient status for community differentiation.
40212875|The clonal plant Scirpus olneyi has two types of ramets within one clone; a ramet with a very long rhizome (LRR) and a ramet with a very short rhizome (SRR). Based on foraging theory of clonal plants, we hypothesised that these two types of ramets were functionally specialised to different tasks: the task of LRRs is for exploring while SRRs is for consolidating the patches. We also hypothesised that LRRs tended to produce LRRs continuously during a growing season to reach further patches while SRRs tended to produce SRRs fewer times to stay in the same patches. To evaluate these hypotheses, we analysed the sequence of two ramets of plants growing in four communities in the field and five treatments in garden experiments. In the garden experiments, plants in high quality treatments (e. g. low salinity, full sun, and sufficient nutrient) produced proportionally more SRRs and branched more frequently than plants in low quality treatments (e. g. strong salinity or less light or less nutrient). LRRs kept producing LRRs in every treatment, but LRRs in low quality treatments produced less SRRs than LRRs in high quality treatments did. The field observations showed LRRs kept producing LRRs in every community in the same growing season, but SRRs production varied among communities. In the communities with larger biomass and high SRR ratio, LRRs produced more SRRs and those SRRs produced proportionally more SRRs. On the other hand, in the communities with smaller biomass and low SRR ratio, LRRs produced less SRRs and those SRRs produced proportionally less SRRs. The results of garden experiments and field observations support our hypotheses. Two ramets are functionally specialised to perform different tasks. And their production patterns are suitable to perform their tasks. And their production patterns are suitable to perform their tasks: the sequential production of LRRs allows plants to have higher chance to reach new locations, and the limited but sequential production of SRRs allows plants to consolidate the patches. The observed production patterns of two ramets are associated with phalanx and guerrilla strategies by Lovett Doust, and S. olneyi shows both strategies within relatively small scale environments.
40540374|A number of floristic and vegetation studies apply the terms campo rupestre, campo de altitude (or Brazilian par amo), and Tepui to neotropical azonal outcrop and montane vegetation. All of these are known to harbor considerable numbers of endemic plant species and to share several genera. In order to determine whether currently known combinations of vascular plant genera could help circumscribe and distinguish these vegetation types, we selected 25 floras which did not exclude herbs and compiled them into a single database. We then compared the S0rensen similarities of the genusassemblages using the numbers of native species in the resulting 1945 genera by multivariate analysis. We found that the circumscription of campo rupestre and other Neotropical outcrop vegetation types may not rely exclusively on a combination of genera.
20050855|Arctostaphylos uva-ursi uses vegetative resprouting to recover rapidly after disturbances. This study aims to widen knowledge of its regeneration response, so it was subjected to experimental cutting and burning. Fifteen pairs of small circular plots (50 cm diameter) were situated at random in an area where this species is abundant and forms homogeneous carpets with close to 100% cover. One plot of each pair was burned and the other one was cut. Initial biomass was estimated as dry weight from the cut plots. A 50 cm diameter circular sampling quadrat, divided into two concentric circles, was used in order to determine cover recovery and the way in which this occurred (predominantly by colonization from outside or uniformly over the whole surface). Initial recovery was very fast after both disturbances, exceeding 30% cover from the fourth month. Recovery of aboveground biomass was also similar on comparing both types of disturbance, but statistically significant differences with respect to initial values were detected.
40305621|Tropical rain forests generally have a complex structure and a high diversity of species in their canopy, but in some rain forests the upper canopy is dominated by a single species. The factors controlling this dominance are uncertain. In New Caledonia, Nothofagus species dominate the upper canopy of some rain forests on ultramafic soils. Here we investigate whether leaf-level nutrient-use efficiency (NUE) could explain dominance by Nothofagus. We found no evidence of a competitive advantage in Nothofagus in terms of leaf-level NUE: Nothofagus species did not have lower leaf macronutrient concentrations, nor did they resorb more nutrients than co-occurring species on average. They did, however, have lower foliar Ni concentrations on average. Leaf decay rate across all species in a glasshouse-based trial correlated positively with foliar P and negatively with cell wall content, lignin: P, C: P, lignin: N, leaf toughness and tannin activity. Multivariate analysis suggested that total cell wall concentration exerted the strongest independent effect on variation among species in decomposition rate. Slow decomposition of Nothofagus leaf litter may facilitate continued dominance of the upper canopy by suppressing establishment and growth of co-occurring species or by promoting disturbance through fire, since disturbance has been suggested as necessary for regeneration and maintenance of dominance by Nothofagus species. However, the biological mechanisms allowing Nothofagus to achieve initial dominance of these post-disturbance forests are uncertain, and may still include plant-level NUE.
40212921|Many tropical alpine treelines lie below their climatic potential, because of natural or anthropogenic causes. Forest extension above the treeline depends on the ability of trees to establish in the alpine environment. This ability may be limited by different factors, such as low temperatures, excess solar radiation, competition, soil properties, dispersal ability, and fires. In this paper we address the following two questions: Do trees regenerate above the present treeline, and what are the inhibiting factors for tree establishment? To answer these questions we described the spatial pattern of recent tree establishment below and above the present treeline in northern Ecuador. Also, we experimentally transplanted seedlings into the alpine Vegetation (pramo) and the forest, and investigated the effect of shade, neighboring plants, and Substrate on their survival. The number of naturally occurring tree sprouts (seedlings, saplings and ramets) was highest just outside the forest, and decreased with distance to the forest edge. However, only two species that were radiation-tolerant made up these high numbers, while other species were rare or absent in the pramo. In the forest, the species diversity of sprouts was high and the abundance per species was relatively low. The transplanted seedlings survived least in experimental plots without artificial shade where neighboring plants were removed. Seedling survival was highest in artificially shaded plots and in the forest. This shade-dependence of most tree species can strongly slow down forest expansion toward the potential climatic treeline. Due to the presence of radiation-tolerant species, the complete lack of forest expansion probably needs to be ascribed to fire. However, our results show that natural processes can also explain both the low position and the abruptness of tropical treelines.
41508852|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) are comprised of soil particles, bacteria, cyanobacteria, green algae, microfungi, lichens, and bryophytes and confer many ecosystem services in arid and semiarid ecosystems worldwide, including the highly threatened California sage scrub (CSS). These services, which include stabilizing the soil surface, can be adversely affected when BSCs are disturbed. Using field and greenhouse experiments, we tested the hypothesis that mechanical disturbance of BSC increases emergence of exotic vascular plants in a coastal CSS ecosystem. At Whiting Ranch Wilderness Park in southern California, 22 plots were established and emergence of exotic and native plants was compared between disturbed and undisturbed subplots containing BSC. In a separate germination study, seed fate in disturbed BSC cores was compared to seed fate in undisturbed BSC cores for three exotic and three native species. In the field, disturbed BSCs had significantly (> 3x) greater exotic plant emergence than in undisturbed BSC, particularly for annual grasses. Native species, however, showed no difference in emergence between disturbed and undisturbed BSC. Within the disturbed treatment, emergence of native plants was significantly, and three times less than that of exotic plants. In the germination study, seed fates for all species were significantly different between disturbed and undisturbed BSC cores. Exotic species had greater emergence in disturbed BSC, whereas native plants showed either no response or a positive response. This study demonstrates another critical ecosystem service of BSCs the inhibition of exotic plant species and underscores the importance of BSC conservation in this biodiversity hotspot and possibly in other aridland ecosystems.
20050407|The effect of UV-B radiation on growth of marine phytoplankton was investigated in relation to DNA damage induced by a range of biologically effective doses (BEDs). Emiliania huxleyi (Prymnesiophyceae) was chosen as a model organism of the ocean's phytoplankton because of its importance in global biogeochemical cycling of carbon and sulphur, elements that influence the world's climate as components of the trace gases carbon dioxide (CO) and dimethylsulfide (DMS). A marine diatom, Cyclotella, was studied for its capacity to repair the DNA damage, quantified as thymine dimers by the application of a monoclonal antibody against these photoproducts. DNA repair was shown to be complete after just a few hours of exposure to visible light; the repair rate increased with PAR intensity. E. huxleyi appeared to be most sensitive to UV-B radiation: growth was already affected above a dose of
20050735|We studied forest structure, composition and tree species diversity of eight plots in an environmental matrix of four altitudes (700, 1700, 2700 and 3100 m) and two types of geological substrates (ultrabasic and non-ultrabasic rocks) on Mount Kinabalu, Borneo. On both substrate series, forest stature, mean leaf area and tree species diversity (both  4.8 cm and  10 cm diameter at breast height [dbh]) decreased with altitude. The two forests on the different substrate series were similar at 700 m in structure, generic and familial composition and tree species diversity, but became dissimilar with increasing altitude. The decline in stature with altitude was steeper on the ultrabasic substrates than on the non-ultrabasic substrates, and tree species diversity was generally lower on ultrabasic substrates than on non-ultrabasic substrates at  1700 m. The forests on non-ultrabasic substrates at higher altitudes and those on ultrabasic substrates at the lower altitudes were similar in dbh versus tree height allometry, mean leaf area, and generic and familial composition at  1700 m. These contrasting patterns in forest structure and composition between the two substrate series suggested that altitudinal change was compressed on the ultrabasic substrates compared to the non-ultrabasic substrates. Tree species diversity was correlated with maximum tree height and estimated aboveground biomass, but was not with basal area, among the eight study sites. We suggest that forests with higher tree species diversity are characterized by greater biomass allocation to height growth relative to trunk diameter growth under more productive environment than forests with lower tree species diversity.
20146937| Plant species of oligotrophic wet dune slacks have dramatically decreased as a result of desiccation and eutrophication. The aim of this study was to test in a field experiment the effects of restoration management in oligotrophic, wet dune slacks (groundwater level rise in combination with topsoil removal or mowing) on abiotic variables and on survival and biomass of four plant species. The effect of groundwater level rise on abiotic variables strongly differed between mown sampling locations and those with topsoil removal. At locations with a mowing treatment, a large rise in water tables led to increased N availability and higher reduced iron concentrations than at other locations. Such effects were absent at locations with recent topsoil removal. No effect of groundwater level rise on P-availability was found. Topsoil removal on average lowered N availability by 13%, P availability by 65% and Fe by 56%. All phytometer species survived better in mown dune slacks than in dune slacks that had received topsoil removal. Survival of all species was negatively related to groundwater level rise. On the short term local extinction risks of small populations may be enhanced by rewetting and topsoil removal. On the long-term, however, such measures are crucial to maintain vegetation of oligotrophic wet dune slacks in a degraded dune landscape. 
20051281|Vegetation composition differs significantly between ancient and recent forest, due to slow colonization capacity of typical forest species and the higher abundance of early successional species in recent forest. However, little is known about differences in persistent seed bank composition between ancient and recent forest and about the interaction between seed bank and vegetation in relation with forest age. We surveyed the seed bank and the understorey vegetation composition in transects from ancient to recent forest. Seed bank and field layer vegetation characteristics and similarity between seed bank and vegetation were analysed in relation to recent forest age and distance to the ancient forest. A total of 39 species and 14,911 seedlings germinated, which corresponds with a seed density of 12,426 seeds/m. Total seed density is significantly higher in the youngest recent forest parcel (55 years). Also the seed bank composition in the youngest forest parcel differs significantly from the other parcels. After a longer period of reforestation, the seed bank approaches that of the ancient forest, suggesting seed bank depletion, although the seed bank is permanently replenished to some extent by seed bank forming species from local disturbances. Seed bank composition does not change significantly with distance to the ancient forest. Similarity between seed bank and vegetation composition, no matter the forest age, is very low, but decreases with increasing forest age. The most frequent species in the vegetation are absent in the seed bank and vice versa. The contribution of forest species is high in the vegetation and they almost not occur in the seed bank, while species of forest edges and clearings, and species of disturbed environments are more frequent in the seed bank. The seed bank is mainly composed of early successional species of former forest stages or species which temporary occur in small-scale disturbances. The seed bank may enhance the negative effects of early successional, mainly competitive species to the forest species richness in the recent forest. In this respect, forest management should minimise forest disturbances, to prevent germination of competitive species form buried seeds.
40305489|Proliferation of lianas in canopy gaps can restrict tree regeneration in tropical forests through competition. Liana effects may differ between tree species, depending on tree requirements for aboveand below-ground resources. We conducted an experiment in a shade house over 12 months to test the effect of light (7 and 27% external irradiance) on the competitive interactions between seedlings of one liana species and three tree species and the contribution of both above- and below-ground competition. Seedlings of the liana Acacia kamerunensis were grown with tree seedlings differing in shade tolerance: Nauclea diderrichii (Pioneer), Khaya anthotheca (Non-Pioneer Light Demander) and Garcinia afzelii (Non-Pioneer Shade Bearer). Trees were grown in four competition treatments with the liana: no competition, root competition, shoot competition and root and shoot competition. Both root and root-shoot competition significantly reduced relative growth rates in all three tree species. After one year, root-shoot competition reduced growth in biomass to 58% of those (all species) grown in no competition. The root competition treatment had a more important contribution in the effect of the liana on tree growth. Tree seedlings did not respond to competition with the liana by altering their patterns of biomass allocation. Although irradiance had a great effect on tree growth and allocation of biomass, the interaction between competition treatments and irradiance was not significant. Nauclea diderrichii, the tree species which responded most to the effects of competition, showed signs of being pot-bound, the stress of which may have augmented the competition effects. The understanding of the interaction of above- and below-ground competition between lianas and trees and its moderation by the light environment is important for a proper appreciation of the influence of lianas on tropical forest regeneration.
40305682|In agricultural landscapes, linear habitats, such as hedgerows at field margins increase structural connectivity among forest patches, potentially providing dispersal corridors for forest herbs. The spatial structure of linear habitats, however, also results in edge effects and perturbations that can influence the individual and population performance of forest plants. This study compares the stage structure and components of growth and reproduction of 14 Trillium grandiflorum populations in hedgerows and forests. Hedgerow Trillium tended to grow faster and, when mature, produced more flowers and more ovules per flowers than forest Trillium, a pattern possibly associated to differences in nutrients and light availability between the two habitats. Seed production and germination rate, however, did not differ between hedgerows and forests. At the population level, seedlings and juveniles were proportionally less abundant in hedgerows than in forests. Although well-established plants can thrive in hedgerows, reduced recruitment may eventually limit the capacity to establish new populations and therefore hamper migration along hedgerow-corridors. Considering the strategies by which plants persist in linear habitats becomes particularly relevant at a time when species are expected to be much in need of dispersal corridors because of climatic stress.
20050788|Species composition of the understory of spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karsten) and beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) forests subjected to intense air pollution stress in the Krkonoe Mts., Czech Republic, showed directional changes over the last 15 years. The changes were documented with repeated observations of 29 permanent plots, initiated in 1980 and analysed with constrained ordination methods (Canonical Correspondence Analysis). Ground layer changes were mainly associated with the loss of canopy foliage from air pollution stress. The increased amount of the light at ground level resulted in increased herb cover. The initially dominant species (e.g., Calamagrostis villosa (Chaix) J. F. Gmelin, Deschampsia flexuosa (L.) P. B., Vaccinium myrtillus L., Athyrium distentifolium Tausch) were those that increased in cover. Moss cover, and moss and herb richness, declined over the course of the study. Thus, the changes in tree canopy are accompanied with changes in the forest understory, which in turn can affect the dynamics of these forests.
20146968|The invasion of European perennial grasses represents a new threat to the native coastal prairie of northern California. Many coastal prairie sites also experience anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition or increased N availability as a result of invasion by N-fixing shrubs. We tested the hypothesis that greater seedling competitive ability and greater responsiveness to high N availability of exotic perennial grasses facilitates their invasion in coastal prairie. We evaluated pairwise competitive responses and effects, and the occurrence of asymmetrical competition, among three common native perennial grasses (Agrostis oregonensis, Festuca rubra, and Nassella pulchra) and three exotic perennial grasses (Holcus lanatus, Phalaris aquatica, and Festuca arundinacea), at two levels of soil N. We also compared the root and shoot biomass and response to fertilization of singly-grown plants, so we could evaluate how performance in competition related to innate plant traits. Competitive effects and responses were negatively correlated and in general varied continuously across native and exotic species. Two exceptions were the exotic species Holcus, which had large effects on neighbors and small responses to them, and competed asymmetrically with all other species in the experiment, and the native grass Nassella, which had strong responses to but little effect on neighbors, and was out-competed by all but one other species in the experiment. High allocation to roots and high early relative growth rate appear to explain Holcus's competitive dominance, but its shoot biomass when grown alone was not significantly greater than those of the species it out-competed. Competitive dynamics were unaffected by fertilization. Therefore, we conclude that seedling competitive ability alone does not explain the increasing dominance of exotic perennial grasses in California coastal prairie. Furthermore, since native and exotic species responded individualistically, grouping species as 'natives' and 'exotics' obscured underlying variation within the two categories. Finally, elevated soil N does not appear to influence competition among the native and exotic perennial grasses studied, so reducing soil N pools may not be a critical step for the restoration of California coastal prairie.
40802516|Goldenseal, Hydrastis canadensis L. (Ranunculaceae), is a perennial woodland herb of eastern North America harvested for the medicinal properties of its rhizome. Although listed in Appendix II of the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species, little is known of its population dynamics in the core of its historical range. We investigated the demography of wild populations at three forest interior sites in Ohio, including both sexual and asexual reproduction, in order to model population dynamics in the core of its historical range. We recognized six life history stages, and parameterized stage-structured (Lefkovich) transition matrices for each population. Marked individuals were monitored and field experiments were conducted to characterize and quantify seed dormancy, seedling establishment, and vegetative reproduction. We found seedling recruitment to be more common than suggested by previous studies, but less common than vegetative reproduction, and less important to projected population growth. The finite rate of increase, A, was greater than 1 for each population based on transition matrices for 1998-1999, but much less than 1 for two populations (and  1 for the third) based on 1999-2000 matrices. This reduction in  appears due to lower survival and growth of established (non-seedling) plants, which may have been due to drought in spring 1999. In both year-to-year transitions, fertile plants typically regressed to the large sterile stage. This research provides a basis for exploring the effects of different harvest strategies on the population dynamics of H. canadensis, enabling assessment of sustainability.
40212949|The simultaneous influence from multiple edges on remnant forest patches (such as wildlife corridors, protection buffers, small unharvested remnants or corners of larger patches) in harvested forest landscapes could impair, or possibly enhance, their effectiveness. When multiple edges are in close proximity, there may be interactions of edge influence such that the observed response is greater or less than would result from the influence of either edge alone. We examined possible ways in which two nearby forest edges of similar or different types might interact in terms of their influence on forest structure. We present an 'edge interaction' model for three possible types of interaction of edge influence: (1) no interaction, edge influence is limited to the strongest influence from either edge, (2) positive interaction, observed edge influence is greater than from either edge alone; (3) negative interaction or resistance, the influence from both edges is less than from a single edge (e.g., an older edge is resistant to effects from a younger edge). Empirical data for forest structure at the edges of cutblocks (harvested areas) and water bodies were entered into the models to predict edge influence in narrow forest corridors assuming the null hypothesis of no interaction. Randomization tests were used to compare predictions to observed edge influence on recently-fallen logs and Populus spp. (P. tremuloides Michx. and P. balsamifera L.) sapling density in lakeshore buffers in boreal mixedwood forest as well as on canopy cover and log, tree and snag abundance in riparian buffers and forested corridors separating cutblocks in Picea mariana (Mill.) BSP. forest. In lakeshore buffers, there was evidence of both positive and negative interaction at different locations within the buffer or at different times since buffer creation for both the abundance of logs and Populus sapling density. Trends suggested positive interaction for canopy cover and live tree density in riparian buffers and cutblock separators, and for snag density near the cut edges of riparian buffers. Testing hypotheses arising from our model of interaction of edge influence could lead to a clearer understanding of edge influence in fragmented landscapes.
41508834|Ecosystems in the eastern United States that were shaped by fire over thousands of years of anthropogenic burning recently have been subjected to fire suppression resulting in significant changes in vegetation composition and structure and encroachment by invasive species. Renewed interest in use of fire to manage such ecosystems will require knowledge of effects of fire regime on vegetation. We studied the effects of one aspect of the fire regime, fire frequency, on biomass, cover and diversity of understory vegetation in upland oak forests prescribe-burned for 20 years at different frequencies ranging from zero to five fires per decade. Overstory canopy closure ranged from 88 to 96% and was not affected by fire frequency indicating high tolerance of large trees for even the most frequent burning. Understory species richness and cover was dominated by woody reproduction followed in descending order by forbs, C3 graminoids, C4 grasses, and legumes. Woody plant understory cover did not change with fire frequency and increased 30% from one to three years after a burn. Both forbs and C3 graminoids showed a linear increase in species richness and cover as fire frequency increased. In contrast, C4 grasses and legumes did not show a response to fire frequency. The reduction of litter by fire may have encouraged regeneration of herbaceous plants and helped explain the positive response of forbs and C3 graminoids to increasing fire frequency. Our results showed that herbaceous biomass, cover, and diversity can be managed with long-term prescribed fire under the closed canopy of upland oak forests.
20050779|Namaqualand, a semi-arid winter rainfall region of South Africa, supports an exceptional diversity of geophytic species. The survey focused on gas exchange reactions and chlorophyll a fluorescence in geophytes with different leaf orientation in relation to environmental variability. Although the above ground life cycle of geophytes can be extremely short, unlike desert annuals, they are not characterized by a high photosynthetic CO uptake. Maximum CO uptake ranged from 4 to 20 mol CO
20051078|Since early May 1997 dune-grassland vegetation in the Netherlands has been exposed to enhanced levels of ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation. Expected increases in the amount of biologically effective UV-B (UV-<tex-math>$\text{B}_{\text{BE}}$</tex-math>) upon a reduction of the stratospheric ozone layer with 15% were calculated and artificially supplemented. In June and September 1998, above- and belowground vegetation samples were taken. Of the dominant species Calamagrostis epigeios and Carex arenaria aboveground mass accumulation, leaf weight (LW), leaf area (LA), specific leaf area (SLA) and tiller number were assessed separate from the remaining vegetation. The results of our study indicate alterations in the vegetation structure due to UV-B supplementation. In June, a significant reduction due to UV-B supplementation in number of tillers and aboveground dry weight per soil area unit was found for C. epigeios. As C. epigeios is the most dominant species of the dune-grassland, these effects indicate a change in vegetation structure due to UV-B enhancement. Indications of UV-B effects on other parameters, such as the number of tillers of C. arenaria and aboveground plant dry weight of the group of species other than C. epigeios and C. arenaria, may also represent changes in vegetation structure. The LA and LW data show the same patterns as the mass accumulation trends. No significant UV-B effects on the SLA of the species or of the total vegetation could be found. Trends in patterns of species dry weight accumulation and partitioning of dry weight between species groups are different in June and September. This may indicate seasonal dependence of UV-B responses. Also, the consistently reducing trend in total and aboveground plant dry weight may indicate deleterious effects of UV-B on total plant matter accumulation. Possible causes of observed trends and effects are discussed.
40305735|This paper compares vegetation composition, light availability, carbon and nutrient pools and Ellenberg indicator values among four old-field successional permanent plots that have received an initial treatment (ploughing, herbicide or sterilisation) prior to being left undisturbed in 1969, a second set of six plots received additional treatments (continued ploughing or mulching until 1982). On all plots species rich pioneer forests developed. Vegetation still varies among plots with different initial treatments: Sterilised plots can be distinguished from the others by dominance of Betula pendula, ploughed plots by Fraxinus excelsior, whereas herbicide-treated plots are intermediate with proportions of both species. By affecting light availability at the ground, tree species in turn influences ground vegetation and soil properties. Light availability turned out to be the dominant factor determining the composition of the vegetation in old-field succession.
41508648|Individual size is an important factor that determines fitness in annual plants. Variation in size originates at the seedling stage based on differences in seedling vigour and time of emergence, ensuing asymmetrical intraspecific competition between early-and late-established plants. The effects of the order of seedling emergence on characteristics of barnyard grass (Echinochloa crus-galli) were studied. In the first experiment, competition between pairs of plants, one of which was sown and emerged 0, 3, 6 or 12 days earlier than the other, was determined. In the second experiment, competition between two plants that were sown at the same time, but emerged at different times because of variation in seed quality, was determined. Competition decreased plant mass, tillering, height and the number of caryopses per panicle, but not time to earing or root/shoot ratio. Plants that were sown 3 days after the first plants in competing pairs grew to 32% of the size of solitary control plants, with the effect of competition accounting for 40% and asymmetrical competition 28% of the total reduction in size. When a 3-day lag in germination was determined intrinsically, plant size was reduced to 19% of the control, with the effect of competition accounting for 34%, asymmetrical competition 15% and poor intrinsic quality of the plant 32% of the total reduction in size. Small environmentally induced delays and more importantly, intrinsically induced delays in the time of emergence result in a considerable decrease in final plant size and fitness.
20050840|Ley cultivation by ploughing and fertilising constitute a severe impact on plant community patterns in semi-natural subalpine communities. Since the 1950ties, such cultivation have been an important part of the agroecosystem in subalpine areas in Norway, and regularly practised. Today, several former leys are left for grazing management. Plant species diversity and heterogeneity was studied in subalpine grasslands in Valdres, southern Norway (ca. 950 m a.s.l.) at different successional phases after ploughing. Fourteen sites (100 m) varying from recently ploughed grasslands (3-5 years at phase 1) to unploughed sites were used to construct a temporal gradient by a space for time substitution. Small-scale species diversity (0.25 m) of vascular plants increased continuously with the time since last ploughing, while the variation in gamma-diversity was minor among late successional phases 3-5 (&gt23-28 years, 32-39 years and unploughed sites) after an evident increase from phase 1-3. The number of exclusive species peaked within unploughed sites (10), and included perennial herbs (Antennaria alpina, Hieracium auricula, Viola canina), spore-producing species (Botrychium lunaria, Selaginella selaginoides) and woody life-forms. Species diversity of cryptogams was low at both a small and large scale within successional phases 1 and 2 (&lt12 years). Small scale cryptogram diversity peaked at the unploughed sites, while gamma diversity peaked at phase 3 (23-28 years). This intermediate phase 3 also had the highest number of exclusive species (12) which exceeded unploughed sites (8). A coarse spatial structure of cryptogams at phase 3 was indicated by a low mean of species distribution. The soil of uncultivated grasslands (phase 5) was, at the end of the growing season (mid August), quite base-rich with a higher content for all measured nutrients as compared to intermediate phases of continuity (phase 3 and 4) The exception was nitrate which was not detectable from phase 3 to 5, and available phosphate which peaked at an intermediate phase of succession (phase 3 and 4). Heterogeneity of vascular plants reached a minimum value at the intermediate phase (3) while cryptogam heterogeneity peaked at this phase. Differences in heterogeneity cycles among these species groups implies that structuring processes act on different temporal scales for vascular plants as compered to cryptogams along the successional gradient in grasslands after ploughing. The importance of continuity in management for plant biodiversity in subalpine grasslands is finally discussed from a conservation point of view.
40305500|Kilimanjaro, a world heritage site and an icon of global change, not only suffers from climatic alterations but also is undergoing a drastic socioeconomic upheaval. A strong increase of tourism enhances the risk of introducing alien plant species in particular in the upper zones of Kilimanjaro. One such species is Poa annua L., a cosmopolitan weed of European origin on roadsides and pastures. The aim of this study is to document its distribution, the speed of its propagation and risks for the indigenous vegetation of Kilimanjaro, and to compare the findings with other introduced species on this mountain. Based on a complete survey of the vegetation of Kilimanjaro with about 1,500 vegetation plots, plant communities invaded by Poa annua are determined. As with most of the other neophytes on Kilimanjaro, Poa annua invades only anthropogenic vegetation but not undisturbed natural vegetation. Similar to the situation in middle Europe, this neophyte is on Kilimanjaro a constituent of the vegetation of trampled ground, occurring between about 1,600 and 4,000 m asl along climbing routes or their vicinity. On a newly opened climbing route a rapid invasion (5.6 km in 3 months) was observed, which makes it likely that Poa annua spread on Kilimanjaro during the last 30 years in parallel to the increase of the climbing tourism. Although Poa annua is still in the stage of propagation, an invasion of natural vegetation types seems to be unlikely.
40212907|Analysis of the spatial patterns of woody plants is important to better understand the ecological processes that govern the worldwide expansion of woody plants across semi-arid ecosystems. Second-order characteristics of a marked spatial point pattern of western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis subsp. occidentalis) were analyzed using Ripley's K-functions and the pair- correlation function g. The marked point process of crown diameters was produced via two-dimensional wavelet analysis of a fine scale aerial photograph at the woodland-steppe ecotone in the Reynolds Creek watershed in the Owyhee Mountains, southwestern Idaho. Colonization of J. occidentalis stems from mature juniper trees growing in rocky, fire resistant areas. Although these areas introduce components of natural heterogeneity within the landscape, the selected study area is situated within a Single soil type, and we modeled the expansion of juniper plants into previously juniper-free sagebrush steppe as a homogeneous point process with constant intensity. Through this research we have identified two statistically significant spatial scales characteristic of J. occidentalis on the woodland/steppe ecotone: (1) We observed inhibition between J. occidentalis plants at distances <15 m, resulting in a regular pattern, rather than clumped or random. This short-istance inhibition can be attributed to competition for water and other resources. Recruitment of young J. occidentalis occurs significantly more often in a direction away from older plants, maximizing the utilization of water and light resources, and perpetuating the spread of the species into previously juniper-free shrubsteppe. (2) J. occidentalis on the ecotone exhibits significant clustering within a 30-60 m radius. Bivariate point pattern analyses provide evidence that, within a distance of 50-70 m, there is a spatial dependence in tree size such that medium trees are more likely than small trees to be close to large trees. We attribute these phenomena to the fact that juniper seeds are commonly dispersed by berry-eating birds with small territories (0.3-1 ha). Beyond a distance of 50-70 m, juniper plants are randomly distributed, suggesting that additional long-range seed dispersal processes are at work. We further acknowledge the importance of including a reference to spatial scale when formulating hypotheses in statistical analysis of spatio-temporal point patterns.
20050817|This study examined the growth responses of exotic annuals and native shrubs to elevated N levels to test the hypothesis that increased N availability favors nitrophilous annuals over the slower-growing shrubs. The vegetation structure of the coastal sage scrub ecosystems in southern California is shifting from shrubland to annual grasslands. Over the last 30 years large tracts of wildlands, particularly those adjacent to urban centers, have lost significant native shrub cover, which has been replaced by exotic annuals native to the Mediterranean Basin. During this same time, air pollution has led to increased terrestrial eutrophication by atmospheric deposition. Changes in vegetation are often the result of changes in resource availability. The results of our experiments showed the three native shrubs tested to be more nitrophilous than the three annuals tested, which contrasts with most models of perennial species' adaptation to stressful environments. Under greenhouse conditions the annual grasses exhibited yield depression at the highest N treatments of 80
23267395|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition in subtropical metropolitan regions has increased greatly because of rapid urbanization, and such increase could lead to N-related changes in soil properties and plant diversity in remnant forest of urban ecosystems. To investigate the pattern of atmospheric N deposition along an urbanrural gradient in metropolitan Guangzhou, southern China, and to assess the potential influence of N deposition on soil properties and understory plant diversity in remnant forests, precipitation, and soil samples were collected and vegetation was surveyed from four forest sites between March 2010 and March 2011. The atmospheric inorganic nitrogen deposition (DIN) decreased with increasing distance from the urban center: DIN inputs were 43.3, 41.2, 35.2, and 30.1 kg N ha -1 year -1 in two urban sites, a suburban site and a rural site, respectively. However, forest soil N status (NH 4 + -N, NO 3 --N, and total nitrogen) showed the opposite pattern. Understory herb-layer diversity was negatively correlated to DIN input and positively correlated to soil calcium (Ca) and potassium (K) concentrations and pH; with highest herb-layer diversity found in the rural site receiving the lowest amount of DIN input. These results indicated that higher DIN along with soil acidification and leaching of base cations (Ca and K) might change the current N status and increase nutrients leaching and thereby cause reductions in understory plant diversity. A regional policy linking atmospheric pollution and land protection is needed to protect the most N-sensitive herb species (e.g., forbs and ferns) in these remnant forests.
40802413|Thermal control of treeline position is mediated by local environmental and ecological factors, making trends in treeline migration difficult to extrapolate geographically. We investigated the ecological dynamics of conifer establishment at treeline in the Mealy Mountains (Labrador, Canada) and the potential for its expansion with climate warming. Available seedbed and tree seedling emergence in the treeline ecotone were monitored, and seeds and seedlings of Picea mariana were planted along an elevational gradient from open-canopy forest through tree islands to alpine tundra. Experimental treatments included passive warming of daytime air, ground disturbance, and vertebrate herbivore exclosures. Responses in seed germination and seedling growth, damage, and mortality were monitored over two growing seasons, and re-surveyed after 5 years. While no tree seedlings were observed growing naturally above the treeline, planted seeds were able to germinate, develop and overwinter, and persist for 4 years in all habitats examined. Disturbance of the seedbed was important for seedling emergence in the forest and tree islands. While temperature enhancement alone had little impact on emergence, even moderate temperature increases had significantly disproportionate effects on emergence of seedlings in the alpine habitat when combined with soil disturbance, indicating that future climate warming could lead to treeline advance if viable seed and suitable substrate for recruitment are available. The positive effect of excluding herbivores suggests that herbivory may be an important filter modifying future species distribution. While seedbed conditions and herbivory would control the rate of individual species advance, the results indicate potential upslope migration of the treeline in the Mealy Mountains, with consequent loss of alpine ecosystems.
40305606|Numerous studies have explored the effect of environmental conditions on a number of plant physiological and structural traits, such as photosynthetic rate, shoot versus root biomass allocation, and leaf and root morphology. In contrast, there have been a few investigations of how those conditions may influence root respiration, even though this flux can represent a major component of carbon (C) pathway in plants. In this study, we examined the response of mass-specific root respiration (mol CO g s), shoot and root biomass, and leaf photosynthesis to clipping and variable soil moisture in two C (Festuca idahoensis Elmer., Poa pratensis L.) and two C (Andropogon greenwayi Napper, and Sporobolus kentrophyllus K. Schum.) grass species. The C and C grasses were collected in Yellowstone National Park, USA and the Serengeti ecosystem, Africa, respectively, where they evolved under temporally variable soil moisture conditions and were exposed to frequent, often intense grazing. We also measured the influence of clipping and soil moisture on specific leaf area (SLA), a trait associated with moisture conservation, and specific root length (SRL), a trait associated with efficiency per unit mass of soil resource uptake. Clipping did not influence any plant trait, with the exception that it reduced the root to shoot ratio (R: S) and increased SRL in P. pratensis. In contrast to the null effect of clipping on specific root respiration, reduced soil moisture lowered specific root respiration in all four species. In addition, species differed in how leaf and root structural traits responded to lower available soil moisture. P. pratensis and A. greenwayi increased SLA, by 23% and 33%, respectively, and did not alter SRL. Conversely, S. kentrophyllus increased SRL by 42% and did not alter SLA. F. idahoensis responded to lower available soil moisture by increasing both SLA and SRL by 38% and 33%, respectively. These responses were species-specific strategies that did not coincide with photosynthetic pathway (C/C) or growth form. Thus, mass-specific root respiration responded uniformly among these four grass species to clipping (no effect) and increased soil moisture stress (decline), whereas the responses of other traits (i.e., R: S ratio, SLA, SRL) to the treatments, especially moisture availability, were species-specific. Consequently, the effects of either clipping or variation in soil moisture on the C budget of these four different grasses species were driven primarily by the plasticity of R: S ratios and the structural leaf and root traits of individual species, rather than variation in the response of mass-specific root respiration.
20146594| Invasive exotic weeds pose one of the earth's most pressing environmental problems. Although many invaders completely eliminate native plant species from some communities, ecologists know little about the mechanisms by which these exotics competitively exclude other species. Mycorrhizal fungi radically alter competitive interactions between plants within natural communities, and a recent study has shown that arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi provide a substantial competitive advantage to spotted knapweed, Centaurea maculosa, a noxious perennial plant that has spread throughout much of the native prairie in the northwestern U.S. Here we present evidence that this advantage is potentially due to mycorrhizally mediated transfer of carbon from a native bunch-grass, Festuca idahoensis, to Centaurea. Centaurea maculosa, Festuca idahoensis (Idaho fescue, C), and Bouteloua gracilis (blue gramma, C) were grown in the greenhouse either alone or with Centaurea in an incomplete factorial design with and without AM fungi. Centaurea biomass was 87-168% greater in all treatments when mycorrhizae were present in the soil (P &lt 0.0001). However, Centaurea biomass was significantly higher in the treatment with both mycorrhizae and Festuca present together than in any other treatment combination (P &lt 0.0001). This high biomass was attained even though Centaurea photosynthetic rates were 14% lower when grown with Festuca and mycorrhizae together than when grown with Festuca without mycorrhizae. Neither biomass nor photosynthetic rates of Centaurea were affected by competition with the C grass Bouteloua either with or without mycorrhizae. The stable isotope signature of Centaurea leaves grown with Festuca and mycorrhizae was more similar to that of Festuca, than when Centaurea was grown alone with mycorrhizae (P = 0.06), or with Festuca but without mycorrhizae (P = 0.09). This suggests that carbon was transferred from Festuca to the invasive weed. We estimated that carbon transferred from Festuca by mycorrhizae contributed up to 15% of the aboveground carbon in Centaurea plants. Our results indicate that carbon parasitism via AM soil fungi may be an important mechanism by which invasive plants out compete their neighbors, but that this interaction is highly species-specific. 
40305501|The ultimate goal of ecological restoration is to create a self-sustaining ecosystem that is resilient to perturbation without further assistance. Genetic variation is a prerequisite for evolutionary response to environmental changes. However, few studies have evaluated the genetic structure of restored populations of dominant plants. In this study, we compared genetic variation of the restored populations with the natural ones in Cyclobalanopsis myrsinaefolia, a dominant species of evergreen broadleaved forest. Using eight polymorphic microsatellite loci, we analyzed samples collected from restored populations and the donor population as well as two other natural populations. We compared the genetic diversity of restored and natural populations. Differences in genetic composition were evaluated using measurements of genetic differentiation and assignment tests. The mean number of alleles per locus was 4.65. Three parameters (A,
40305659|Shrub encroachment is a widely observed problem in Southern African savannas. Although the effects of herbivory and grass height on woody species recruitment have been studied individually, little information exists about how these factors interact. In this study seeds and seedlings of the encroaching shrub Dichrostachys cinerea were planted in clipped and undipped grass plots, with and without large herbivores present. Seed germination, seedling survival and seedling predation were monitored for 8 months. Germination started earlier in plots where herbivores were excluded. Overall, the earlier the seeds germinated, the longer the seedlings survived.Clipping positively affected the number of germinated seeds, seedling growth and survival but effects varied among herbivore exclusion treatments and sites. Invertebrates caused the majority of the seedling damage. We conclude the recruitment of D. cinerea is influenced by the interplay of grass height and herbivory. In this study, the presence of large herbivores early in the wet season, and the absence of simulated grazing later on, affected the regeneration of D. cinerea negatively. However, differences in effects among sites suggest that the mechanisms found here may work differently in other habitats.
20051022|Forbs are the most abundant species within the vascular flora of tallgrass prairie and they make the greatest contribution to biodiversity of all growth forms. However, little is known about the factors that determine their productivity and growth rates. The objective of this study was to assess the controls of forb growth (absolute and relative) and production in tallgrass prairie from a long-term burning experiment at the Konza Prairie in NE Kansas. Over the 14-year study, forbs comprised 9% of the total biomass production on sites with a high fire frequency vs. 29% on the low fire frequency site, with gramminoids accounting for the remainder. Although interannual variations in peak biomass of the grasses was strongly correlated with environmental variables related to water availability, there were no similar relationships for forbs, suggesting that production of forbs and grasses responded to interannual variations in climate in different ways. Multivariate analysis of climatic controls on growth rates of grasses and forbs yielded similar results. Although forbs had low biomass and absolute growth per unit ground area in frequently burned prairie, their relative growth rates were highest in such sites. Thus, it appears that reduced growth rates of individual forbs per se do not limit forb success in annually burned prairie. Instead, direct negative effects of fire on forbs (increased mortality) may be responsible. Determinants of forb growth and productivity in unburned prairie remain unresolved.
20051233|We evaluated herbivory tolerance and competitive ability within two dominant: subordinate pairs of C, perennial grasses at each of two sites to determine the contribution of these processes to herbivore-induced species replacement. Herbivory tolerance was assessed by cumulative regrowth from defoliated plants of each species and competitive ability was evaluated by relative uptake of a
40926906|We investigated among and within species variation in several litter chemical properties, including protein complexation capacity (PCC), for six plant species across a boreal forest chronosequence in northern Sweden across which stand fertility declines sharply with stand age. We hypothesized (1) that evergreen species which dominate in late-successional stands would exhibit higher PCCs than deciduous species that dominate in young stands, (2) that individual species would increase their PCCs in response to nutrient limitation as succession proceeds, and (3) that differences in PCC among litter types would determine their interactive effects with proteins on soil N and C mineralization. The data demonstrated a high PCC, but a low PCC per unit of soluble phenol, for two deciduous species that dominate in early-successional high fertility stands, providing mixed support for our first hypothesis. No species demonstrated a significant correlation between their PCC and stand age, which did not support our second hypothesis. Finally, a soil incubation assay revealed that litter extracts for three of the six species had negative interactive effects with added proteins on N mineralization rates, and that all six species demonstrated positive interactive effects with protein on C mineralization. This pattern did not provide strong support for our third hypothesis, and suggests that N immobilization was likely a more important factor regulating N mineralization than stabilization of proteins into tannin complexes. These data suggest that multiple interactive mechanisms between litter extracts and proteins likely occur simultaneously to influence the availability of N in soils.
20051004|The relationships between bryophyte biomass and species richness and soil pH, nutrient applications and vascular plant biomass and species richness were analyzed for the Park Grass Experiment (Rothamsted, UK). The study examined the abundance of bryophytes in relation to long-term fertilizer and lime application and to fertilizer treatments recently being ceased on some plots. The probability of bryophytes being present on a plot increased with increasing soil pH, and on plots at soil pH 3.3-4.5, the lowest values in this experiment, there were virtually no mosses present. Total bryophyte biomass decreased with increasing vascular plant biomass and vascular plant richness. Both bryophyte biomass and species richness showed a curvilinear response to soil pH. Bryophyte biomass was markedly increased on plots where nitrogen (N) fertilization had recently been ceased. The abundance of the common bryophyte species showed individualistic responses to treatments. N had a negative effect on the abundance of Brachythecium rutabulum. Increasing soil pH, and the application of phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) fertilizer together, had a positive effect on Eurhynchium praelongum. This species was also negatively affected by N, but tolerated larger amounts of it (
20051223|The importance of light as a limiting factor for growth and reproduction in tropical understorey plants is well known, but the population-level consequences of light limitation remain little explored. Here, I use demographic modelling to examine if the effect of canopy gaps on individual-level performance in a tropical understorey palm translates into an effect on the population growth rate. The demographic effects of heterogeneity in crown illumination (index of hemispherical canopy openness), forest-phase, and other microenvironmental parameters were quantified using data on 2592 individuals of all sizes in permanent plots followed over a 1.5 year period. Supplementary experiments investigating the effects of canopy conditions on seedling recruitment were also conducted. Among the microenvironmental parameters only crown illumination and forest-phase had strong and consistent demographic effects. Growth and fecundity generally increased with increasing crown illumination. Under open forest-phase conditions growth tended to increase and survival to decrease (due to increased physical damage). Seedlings transplanted into gap centres were damaged by solarization. The population-level effect of heterogeneity in crown illumination and forest-phase was investigated using transition matrix models. The overall population growth rate was 0.999, and not significantly different from 1. Illumination-specific models showed that G. macrostachys would be unable to persist at permanently low illumination, but would increase in density under higher illumination. Forest-phase-specific models gave similar, but weaker results. Thus, in G. macrostachys effects of canopy openness on individual-level performance strongly limit the population growth rate. The present study thereby shows that fine-scale spatiotemporal variation in canopy openness in the tropical rain forest understorey can play a central role in the population ecology of shade-tolerant understorey plants.
23267478|The seeds of many tree species are dispersed more than once, and this secondary seed dispersal is believed to enhance seedling recruitment. However, the effectiveness of secondary seed dispersal has rarely been assessed because it is difficult to track seeds until they die or germinate. We describe a new technique that uses thread tags attached to radio transmitters (telemetric thread tags) to track long-distance multistep seed dispersal by scatter-hoarding rodents. These telemetric thread tags can be turned off with a magnet and are reactivated when the seed moves. This method allows for seed tracking with minimal cache disturbance or distance bias, over long time spans, multiple seed movements, and with few effects on animal behavior. We used telemetric thread tags to track seed dispersal of the palm tree Astrocaryum standleyanum in a Neotropical forest, and achieved near-complete recovery of dispersed seeds tracked over distances as far as 241 m. We were also able to record the recovery time and fate of cached seeds without disturbing caches. Neither the removal rate nor the dispersal distance differed between seeds with telemetric thread tags and thread-tagged seeds. We conclude that telemetric thread tags can be used to document secondary seed dispersal by scatter-hoarding animals with unprecedented efficacy and precision. Given the size of these tags relative to the size of seeds and their dispersers, this method is applicable to the majority of tree species that are secondarily dispersed by scatter-hoarding mammals.
20146793|Quercus ilex and Pinus halepensis are two of the most common tree species of the western Mediterranean basin. Both species regenerate reliably after fire: P. halepensis colonizes recently disturbed areas by effective seedling recruitment, while Q. ilex resprouts vigorously after disturbances. For this reason, the natural regeneration of these species after fire should ensure the re-establishment of a forest similar to that which existed before the fire. This study analyzes with a simple simulation model whether or not the relative abundance of monospecific and mixed forests of these species in the landscape is altered by fire. We also analyze the topographic factors and the forest structure before the fire that determine the changes in forest composition after fire. This study has been carried out in a large fire that occurred in NE Spain. Overall, 33% of plots changed to another community type, but this probability of change varied considerably among community types before the fire. Monospecific forests of P. halepensis or Q. ilex had a high probability of remaining in their original composition after the fire, whereas the resilience of mixed forests of these two species was quite low. Mixed forests changed for the most part to monospecific P. halepensis or Q. ilex forests. Analysis of several factors determining these changes indicated that only elevation as a significant topographical variable. The effect of fire was to increase the altitudinal differentiation between the two species. P. halepensis forests that changed to mixed or Q. ilex forests were those of highest elevation, while the mixed and Q. ilex plots that changed to P. halepensis forests were those located at the lowest elevations. Concerning structural variables before fire, density of Q. ilex trees before the fire showed a much greater effect than P. halepensis density in determining the post-fire community. Finally, burn severity also influenced the changes observed. For both P. halepensis and Q. ilex forests, plots that changed to another forest type were mainly those that burned more severely. In the case of mixed forests, even low fire severities involved high probabilities of change to monospecific forests.
20146480| The size and species composition of soil seed banks were assessed at 111 altitudinally diverse sites in the Cairngorm Mountains. Mean densities of germinable seeds varied from 83 000 m in Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) woodland at 230-490 m to 200 m in moss (Racomitrium lanuginosum (Hedw.) Brid.) heath at 1000-1120 m. Seed banks were dominated by Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull, not only wherever it was prominent in the vegetation, but also at some sites with less than 5% cover of parent plants in the ground vegetation. Many species conspicuous in the vegetation were under-represented in or absent from the seed bank and surface vegetation generally was more species rich than was the underlying seed bank, especially in high montane communities. Multiple regression was used to examine the relationship between the density of buried Calluna seeds and the abundance of parent plants in the vegetation, site altitude and the organic matter content of the soil. The model fitted to woodland communities accounted for 95% of the variation in seed density. The heathland model was less predictive but still explained 52% of the variation in seed bank size. In mire communities there was no relationship, collective or individual, between buried seed density and the measured environmental variables, possibly due to variations in the duration and frequency of waterlogging at these sites. The potential role of seed banks for initiating the recolonisation of disturbed ground is discussed. Densities of buried seeds at most Calluna-dominant sites were probably sufficient to generate successful recolonisation but the prospects for recovery were poor at other sites, particularly in graminaceous communities at 800 m or higher. 
23362530|Because wind pollination is inefficient over longer distances, plants dependent on it may suffer Allee effects (lower individual reproductive fitness with lower density). However, at higher density, individual reproductive fitness may suffer because of intraspecific competition. We investigate density-dependent effects, via stand size, on cone and seed production and seed germinability in a conifer endemic to tropical Australia. Callitris intratropica R.T. Baker & H.G. Smith is an obligate-seeding tree that often occurs in monodominant stands embedded within savannas and on the fringes of monsoon forests. We found that isolated trees (50300 m from stands) were taller, of broader profile, and produced approximately twice the number of cones (407 cones per tree) as those in large stands (173 cones per tree), suggesting that monodominance generates intraspecific competition. The number of seeds per cone (27 seeds) was not related to stand size. However, a contrasting effect in which seed germinability was higher in large stands (20 vs. <10 % in small stands) was approximately compensatory and consistent with an Allee effect of wind pollination. The net effect of an approximately even trade-off between cone production and seed germinability was that there was neither an Allee or density-dependent effect of stand size on fitness, measured as the number of germinable seeds per tree. Nevertheless, because the likelihood of cross-fertilisation declines with distance, the ability of C. intratropica to persist as very isolated individuals may be limited.
23362524|Changes to the timing of peak river flows caused by flow regulation affect riparian vegetation composition, but the mechanisms driving such vegetation changes are not well understood. We investigated experimentally the effects of timing of inundation on riparian plant growth and flowering. We collected 168 sods from 14 sites across five lowland rivers in south-eastern Australia. Plant cover and flowering within the sods were surveyed each season for a year. During this period, sods were inundated for 6 weeks in either early spring or in summer. Terrestrial plant taxa (which included most exotic species) senesced in response to inundation, regardless of its timing. In contrast, native amphibious species (particularly amphibious forbs) responded favourably to inundation in spring, but were unaffected by inundation in summer. Native and exotic emergent macrophytes responded favourably to inundation regardless of timing, and flowered frequently in both the spring- and the summer-inundation treatments. In contrast, many native annuals flowered only in the spring-inundation treatment, while more exotic grasses flowered in the summer-inundation treatment. In temperate climates, inundation in early spring followed by non-flooded conditions is likely to be important for promoting the growth of amphibious forbs and the recruitment and flowering of riparian annuals. Without inundation in spring, many terrestrial exotic weeds may flourish and set seed prior to any subsequent inundation (e.g. in summer). We contend that natural seasonal timing (i.e. winter-early spring) of flow peaks is important for the maintenance of native riverbank vegetation and reducing the extent of terrestrial exotic species within the riparian zone.
20146785|In a Picea abies (L.) Karst. (Norway spruce) mountain forest on the Gandberg site in the northern Swiss Alps, trees were killed by bark beetles in 1992-1997. A combination of field studies and dynamic modelling was used to project snag decay and future ground vegetation succession in these steep, unharvested stands. In permanent plots, ground vegetation cover and natural tree regeneration have been monitored annually since 1994. To obtain additional information on the abundance of snags, logs, boulders and other microsite types in these stands, the relative frequency of the microsite types was quantified along four strip transects on the montane and subalpine elevational levels. A dynamic model of snag decay and ground vegetation development was constructed (modified matrix model approach). Based on field data and literature values, the model was parameterised and initialised separately for the montane and the subalpine level. For model validation, microsite types were quantified in 2001 with the line-intercept method on both elevational levels. Starting from the conditions in the stands before the bark beetle attacks, it was possible to project shortterm succession and to accurately simulate the decay and ground vegetation patterns eight years after tree die-back. Long-term simulations suggest that on the montane level, raspberries (Rubus idaeus L.) will be replaced by Picea abies, while on the subalpine level ferns will dominate for a long time.
20050713|We used univariate and multivariate techniques to evaluate vegetation-environment relationships for plant functional groups on a tallgrass prairie site in northern Oklahoma, USA burned seasonally and grazed by bison (Bison bison L.). The objective of the study was to identify important environmental variables associated with variation in residual aboveground standing crop (phytomass) and abundance of plant functional groups. Phytomass was predictably linked to season, with highest levels found in the latter portion of the growing season when the warm-season tallgrasses that dominated the site were most actively growing. When the effects of seasonal phenology were removed, stepwise regression revealed that phytomass variation was best explained by year-to-year climatic variation, seasonal burn type, and bison grazing. Phytomass was negatively related to bison grazing under all conditions. A number of plant functional groups responded to individual environmental variables: relative abundance levels of tallgrasses, little bluestem, annual grasses, forbs and legumes all varied with burn season; little bluestem, annual grasses, and sedges varied by topoedaphic position, while forbs exhibited a positive relationship with bison grazing intensity. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) was used to directly relate composition patterns of functional groups to environmental variables. CCA bi-plot of the ordination revealed that annual grasses were most closely associated with summer fires; sedges were associated with fall burns and the 1995 sampling year; legumes associated with a gradient representing the length of time since fire; while tallgrasses and little bluestem ordinated nearest a gradient representing bison grazing. Forbs and perennial grasses did not clearly associate with any particular environmental gradient, suggesting they were either simultaneously affected by several parameters or that environmental attributes important to these groups were not measured. Total phytomass and sedges were strongly influenced by yearly climatic variation. Relative abundance of some plant functional groups was principally determined by a single factor, while others were equally influenced by a suite of environmental interactions.
40212914|Diversity has two basic components: richness, or number of species in a given area, and evenness, or how relative abundance or biomass is distributed among species. Previously, we found that richness and evenness can be negatively related across plant communities and that evenness can aecount for more Variation in Shannon's diversity index (H) than richness, which suggests that relationships among diversity components can be complex. Non-positive relationships between evenness and richness could arise due to the effects of migration rate or local species interactions, and relationships could vary depending on how these two processes strueture local communities. Here we test whether diversity components are equally or differentially affected over time by changes in seed density (and associated effects on established plant density and competition) in greenhouse communities during the very early stages of community establishment. In our greenhouse experiment, we seeded prairie microcosms filled with bare field soil at three densities with draws from a mix of 22 grass and forb species to test if increased competition intensity or seedling density would affect the relationships among diversity components during early Community establishment. Increased seed density treatments caused diversity components to respond in a different manner and to have different relationships with time. Richness increased linearly with seed density early in the experiment when seedling emergence was high, but was unrelated to density later in the experiment. Evenness decreased log-linearly with seed densities on all sampling dates due to a greater dominance by Rudbeckia hirta with higher densities. Early in the experiment, diversity indices weakly reflected differences in richness, but later, after the competitive effects of Rudbeckia hirta became more intense, diversity indices more strongly reflected differences in evenness. This suggests that species evenness and diversity indices do not always positively covary with richness. Based on these results, we suggest that evenness and richness can be influenced by different processes, with richness being more influenced by the number of emerging seedlings and evenness more by species interactions like competition. These results suggest that both diversity components should be measured in plant diversity studies whenever it is possible.
40305561|If connected ramets are growing in heterogeneous environments, Division of Labour (DoL) among ramets potentially will result in more efficient sharing of resources and an overall benefit to the plants. As a result of DoL, connected ramets growing in a heterogeneous environment might achieve more biomass than ramets growing in a homogeneous environment. DoL has been demonstrated to occur in a few clonal plant species, although most studies simply focussed on biomass allocation, not on actual resource capturing such as water and nutrient consumption. The model system for our study is one in which two connected ramet groups of Schoenoplectus americanus were placed into contrasting environments. In one treatment, the connected ramets grew in heterogeneous environments and in the other treatment, the connected ramets grew in the same (i.e. homogeneous) environment. We manipulated two variables (light and salinity) in the experiment. We hypothesized that ramets growing in a shaded and fresh water condition in a heterogeneous environment would use more water than ramets growing in a similar condition but in a homogeneous environment. We further hypothesized that ramets growing in a light and saline condition in a heterogeneous environment would assimilate less water than ramets growing in a similar condition but in a homogeneous environment. These hypotheses are based on the assumption that ramets in a heterogeneous environment would translocate water from ramets growing in a shaded and fresh water condition to ramets growing in a light and saline water condition. We also hypothesized that ramets growing in heterogeneous environments achieve larger biomass than ramets in homogeneous environments. Ramets grown in light and saline conditions in heterogeneous environments allocated more biomass to aboveground parts, had taller shoots, larger Specific Green (leaf) Area and consumed less water than ramets grown in similar conditions but in a homogeneous environment. Results confirm the hypothesis that connected ramets in heterogeneous environments are specialised to capture locally abundant resources and share these with connected ramets growing in other habitats. The result of DoL is that the entire connected ramet system benefits and achieves higher biomass.
40212858|Field experiments and wild population monitoring have been performed to study the population biology of the rare long-lived Kosteletzkya pentacarpos (Malvaceae) in the Llobregat delta (Catalonia, NE Spain). Field experiments explored the fate of seeds in soil at different depths, seedling emergence, and seedling survival, growth and flowering with and without canopy cover during the first 2 years of life. They also were used to ascertain the size-related pattern of seedling survivorship and flowering. Field data concerning mortality, growth and fecundity of adult plants were collected yearly in three wild populations for 7-9 years. In old adults (reproducing long before the beginning of the study), ANOVAR tests were performed to compare maximum diameter, total and fertile shoots, and viable seeds per plant between years and populations. New adults (starting flowering the first year of study or in subsequent years) were used to explore, using linear and polynomial regressions, the association of RGR and both total and fertile shoot production with (i) plant size (maximum basal diameter or its logarithm); (ii) plant age (years in adult stage); and (iii) plant age after removing the effect of size and year-to-year fluctuations. In this case, we examined the agerelated pattern of the residuals obtained from the regressions with size and year. The study identified the following main demographic features of K. pentacarpos: (i) transient, shallow soil seed bank; (ii) shade tolerance of seedling emergence; (iii) canopy-facilitation of seedling survival and bolting during the first two years of life; (iv) sizerelated pattern for seedling survivorship but not flowering; (v) exclusive dependence on a fluctuating seed output for reproduction; (vi) rapid adult growth; and (vii) high adult longevity but (viii) rapid depletion of fecundity with age. Seed output was highly constrained by mining insects. The changing size-structure and the decreasing reproductive success of old adults in several populations suggest that K. pentacarpos might undergo a dynamics of population establishment and extinction in the Ricarda marshes. Because of fluctuating reproduction and the lack of a persistent seed bank, the conservation of standing adult populations appears to be a key factor to ensure the persistence of the species.
20050760|Clonal plant species can be considered as populations of interconnected ramets which are basically identical in form and function, and potentially independent from each other. Experimental studies and field observations suggest that an intra-clonal specialization of ramets with different roles (division of labour) can increase the performance of clonal systems under heterogeneous conditions. This paper explores structural and functional variation in the emergent macrophyte Scirpus maritimus, which forms ramets that specialize in three main activities: sexual reproduction, photosynthetic assimilation and vegetative growth, and reserve storage. The main question asked in this study is whether such specialization is a developmentally programmed syndrome in this species, and whether environmental conditions can alter the pattern of ramet differentiation along rhizome systems. We analyzed clonal fragments collected from a population in the field, and grew clones individually in pots of two sizes to simulate different degrees of crowding and shoot density. Specialization of ramets was largely predictable from their position along the rhizome system, indicating that specialization is an inherent feature (developmentally programmed) of clone ontogeny in S. maritimus. In the field, sexual ramets were always situated at the base of rhizome systems, vegetative ramets were in first and intermediate positions, and shoot-less storage ramets were almost always formed distally on rhizomes (terminal ramets). In the pot experiment flowering ramets were observed in all positions along rhizome systems, suggesting that specialization for sexual reproduction shows a plastic response to environmental conditions. S. maritimus can adjust the relative numbers of ramets with and without above-ground shoots when grown in different shoot densities, i.e. the frequency of individual ramets responsible for a certain functional or developmental process can be adjusted to environmental conditions and internal needs. In S. maritimus, the density-dependant regulation of storage versus vegetative growth and sexual reproduction may represent a mechanism to limit shoot competition in crowded populations.
20050584|Patterns of spatial arrangement, tree density, and species composition were compared in three unharvested pine-oak forests under different recent fire regimes: (1) an uninterrupted frequent fire regime, (2) fire exclusion, and (3) fire exclusion followed by the return of fire. Regeneration was dense and highly aggregated at all sites but the frequent-fire overstory was random to uniform in spatial distribution and relatively open while the fire-excluded sites had clumped overstory trees with a high density of smaller trees. Dominance by sprouting species was greatest at the fire-excluded sites. Mortality was spatially aggregated at all sites, consistent both with thinning by fire and density-dependent mortality, but competitive self-thinning appeared insufficient to counteract the increased tree density without fire. The return of fire after 29 years of exclusion reduced tree density but left overstory trees aggregated and led to vigorous oak and alder sprouting. Frequent fire disturbance is considered essential to maintain open pine forests; fire exclusion with or without subsequent fire appears to lead to denser forests dominated by smaller trees of sprouting species.
20146958|Pinus ponderosa forests occupy numerous topographic and soil complexes across vast areas of the south-western United States, yet few data exist on species distributions and vegetation-environment relationships for these environmentally diverse landscapes. We measured topography, soils, and vegetation on 66, 0.05-ha plots within a 110,000-ha P. ponderosa landscape in northern Arizona, USA, to discern vegetation-environment relationships on this landscape. We analyzed associations of environmental variables with plant communities and with single-species distributions, and we classified ecological species groups (co-occurring plant species exhibiting similar environmental affinities). Gradients in community composition paralleled gradients in soil texture, available water, organic C, total N, and geographic precipitation patterns. Soil parent material, affected by the presence or absence of volcanic activity, is a primary factor constraining vegetation patterns on this landscape. Using discriminant analysis, we built a model that correctly classified the most important of four grasses (Bouteloua gracilis, Muhlenbergia montana, Sporobolus interruptus, or Festuca arizonica) on 70-80% of plots based on five environmental variables related to soil moisture and resource levels. We also classified 52 of the 271 detected plant species into 18 ecological species groups. Species groups ranged from Phacelia and Bahia groups occupying xeric, volcanic cinder soils low in organic C and total N, to Festuca and Lathyrus groups characterizing moist, loam and silt loam soils. We applied the species groups by estimating P. ponderosa diameter increment in a regression tree using abundances of species groups. The most rapid P. ponderosa diameter growth of 5 mm/year occurred on plots with high importance of the Festuca and Lathyrus groups. Our results on this semi-arid landscape support several general ecological species group principles chiefly developed in temperate regions, and suggest that vegetation-environment research has great potential for enhancing our understanding of P. ponderosa forests occupying vast areas of the southwestern United States.
20146452|This paper reviews the floristic composition, vegetation structure, and diversity of three types of swamp forest that cover a considerable part of Guyana's North-West District. Trees, shrubs, lianas, herbs, and hemi-epiphytes were inventoried in three hectare plots: one in Mora forest, one in quackal swamp, and one in manicole swamp. The Mora forest, flooded annually by white water, was dominated by relatively few, large individuals of Mora excelsa. The very dense, thin-stemmed quackal forest, almost permanently flooded by black water, was characterized by Tabebuia insignis and Symphonia globulifera and contained few palms. The somewhat less dense manicole swamp, flooded regularly by brackish water, was distinguished by large numbers of Euterpe oleracea. Although the three swamps showed little overlap in floristic composition and densities of dominant species, they represent some of the lowest diversity forest in the Neotropics, with an -diversity of 7.4 for the Mora forest, 8.2 for the quackal forest and 5.7 for the manicole swamp. When compared with similar vegetation types in the Guiana Shield, the swamp forests in this study show some interesting differences in species composition and density. The wetlands of the North-West District form the last stretch of natural coastline in Guyana and play an important role in the protection of riverine ecosystems. Furthermore, there is commercial potential for the extraction of non-timber forest products from these low-diversity forests. Nevertheless, in prolonged dry periods, large tracts of quackal forest are being burnt to give way to almost treeless, flooded savannas. For these reasons, adequate management and conservation strategies must be developed for the area.
20146724| The difference in distribution of tree populations between riparian sites and terraces might be explained by differential limitation of cohort establishment in the early stages of a tree's life history. To test this hypothesis, the early population dynamics of the riparian specialist Acer mono Maxim. var. marmoratum Hara f. dissectum Rehder and the generalist Fagus crenata Blume were compared at a riparian site and an adjacent terrace in a temperate forest in northern Japan. Survival and growth of seedling cohorts were analyzed for seven years (1994-2000) by studying the topography, light conditions, and initial density of conspecific seedlings. At one year after germination, A. mono cohorts survived best at the riparian site with a lower seedling density (40%), but were less successful at the terrace (18%) and at the riparian site with a higher seedling density (25%). Survival of F. crenata cohorts was not affected by environmental factors (ca. 14% one year after germination). The critical difference in A. mono survival occurred during the first growing season; cohorts at the riparian site experienced higher mortality (0.02 day) before July, whereas those at the terrace decreased rapidly in August (0.03 day) when there was little rainfall. The height of seedlings of both species increased with age (becoming  20 cm during the study period), except for A. mono seedlings at the terrace which remained at the same height as at emergence for seven years (ca. 6 cm). Interspecific comparison revealed that A. mono survived better than F. crenata at the riparian site although their growth was equivalent, and that F. crenata grew better than A. mono on the terrace although their survival rates were equivalent. The seedling performance of the two species corresponds well with the adult distribution in the forest. 
20051064|The canopy surface is an undulating surface that follows the irregular contours of the upper tree crowns and defines the inner and the outer limits of the forest volume. In French Guiana, the height of the canopy surface was surveyed in both a primary and a 20-years old clear-felled secondary forest plot. The topographic surface was displayed in a three-dimensional mesh, where X and Y are horizontal co-ordinates, and Z is the canopy height measured from the ground with an optical telemeter. The statistical dispersion of Z-data, and the spatial tree height variations, are interpreted at different levels of ecosystem organisation, from forest type (primary or secondary forest) to the trees themselves, following the folded forest model theory (Oldeman 1992, 1994). The vertical growth of trees creates a convex pattern in the relief of canopy surface, whereas gaps make 'concavities' which delimit impact of perturbation on the forest structure. These events are either the result of the dynamic of single trees (emergent and decayed trees), or arise from the dynamic of a group of trees working together (group of emergent trees or complex gaps). At the plot scale, the elemetary events, convexities and concavities, are gathered on similar toposequences, and form canopy units either higher or lower than the average canopy height. This study suggests that the topography of the canopy surface is defined by a complex nested system from trees, to groups of trees, to canopy units, within a delimited floristic and physical environment.
41508699|In forest understory restoration, the establishment of reintroduced species may be strongly linked to their ability to compete for belowground resources. In this study, we provide isotopic and morphological evidence for competition-induced increases in nitrogen fixation by Morella cerifera (L.) Small (wax myrtle) when planted with Pinus palustris Mill (longleaf pine). Compared to a competition-free treatment, we found no significant differences in tissue N concentrations for M. cerifera. However, N enrichment in leaves, stems and roots, as well as whole-plant values for nitrogen derived from fertilizer were significantly lower when the plants were subject to interspecific competition from P. palustris. Plants in the competition treatment also allocated a significantly greater percentage of belowground biomass to root nodules than those in the competition-free treatment (0.65 vs. 0.41%). This strongly suggests that M. cerifera is capable of upregulating nitrogen fixation in response to interspecific competition. This may help explain why M. cerifera outperformed non-nitrogen-fixing species reintroduced on the same site.
41508826|To test the hypothesis that the species could be more beneficial in association with two-nurse species than with single-nurse species, we surveyed an arid shrub-herbaceous community primarily composed of two dominant species, Achnatherum splendens and Nitraria tangutorum and two associate species, Phragmites australis and Reaumuria soongorica in Northwest China. The performance (frequency, abundance, and size) of the two associate species in neighbored patches (patches formed by a dominant species which were closely adjacent to the patches formed by the other dominant species), isolated patches (patches formed by one dominant species with no neighbor), and open areas was compared to analyze the individual and combined effects of the two dominant species. A. splendens and N. tangutorum appeared to have reciprocal facilitation effects when growing adjacent to one another, as evidenced by the increased size of neighbored patches over isolated ones. The individual effects of A. splendens on the associate species should be generally neutral, since the frequency, abundance, size, and co-occurrence frequency of the two associate species in isolated A. splendens patches and open areas were the same (except for the significantly larger size of R. soongorica in isolated A. splendens patches). The individual effects of N. tangutorum were positive to the associate species R. soongorica, as evidenced by the fact that the frequency and abundance of R. soongorica was significantly higher (P < 0.05), and the size of two associate species was significantly larger (P < 0.05), in isolated N. tangutorum patches than in open areas. However, the frequency and abundance of P. australis, and the co-occurrence frequency of the two associate species in isolated N. tangutorum patches and in open areas were the same. In comparison to the isolated patches, there were significantly higher frequency and abundance (P < 0.05), larger sizes (P < 0.05), and higher co-occurrence frequency (P < 0.05) of the two associate species in neighbored N. tangutorum patches. Since the neighbored patches could be influenced by both dominant species, the combined effects of A. splendens and N. tangutorum were identified as positive and over-additive. We suggested that the indirect facilitation or synergistic effects could account for the combined effects of the two dominant species.
40802525|Riparian forests are highly valued for maintaining water quality through the retention of sediments and nutrients. They also provide some of the most diverse and species-rich habitats in the world. What is largely unknown, however, is how sediment deposition affects plant community composition in these forests. The objective of this study was to examine changes in plant community composition across a gradient of increasing rates of sedimentation in riparian forests in the southeastern Coastal Plain, USA. Seventeen plots were established within riparian forests receiving between 0 and 5.5 cm year of sediment deposits. Species density and biomass estimates were collected annually from 2002 to 2006 for overstory and mid-story plant species within each plot. Percent cover and nested frequency of understory plant species were determined annually during 2004-2006. Measures of community composition in the understory, mid-story, and overstory layers of forests were compared to changes in environmental factors associated with increased sedimentation. In the understory, annual, exotic, and upland species had higher importance values in plots receiving high sediment deposition. The densities of shade-intolerant and N-fixing species in the mid-story also increased with increasing sedimentation rates. Increased overstory mortality was associated with high sedimentation rates, though increases in understory light levels in these gaps were not the main driver of understory species changes. Edaphic factors, such as soil texture, moisture, and temperature, were significantly correlated to species composition in all three forest layers, suggesting that changes in soil physical structure due to sedimentation may drive community-level changes in these forests.
41508802|A quantitative inventory of trees and lianas was conducted (1) to compare floristic composition, diversity and stem density variation between three different forest types (tierra firme, floodplain and swamp), and (2) to analyse the relationships between floristic similarity and forest structure in two regions ~ 60 km apart in Yasuni National Park, Amazonian Ecuador. A total of 1,087 species with a diameter at breast height  2.5 cm were recorded in 25 0.1-ha plots. Tierra firme was the habitat with the highest number of species and stem density for trees and lianas, followed by floodplain and swamp in both regions. Two hypotheses that have been independently proposed to describe plant distribution in tropical rain forests, together explain species spatial distribution in this study. The fact that the 30 most important species per forest type (totalling 119 species) accounted for 48.2% of total individuals supports the oligarchy hypothesis. Likewise, 28 out of these 119 species are reported as restricted to a single forest type, which supports the environmentaldeterminism hypothesis. In general, both canopy and understorey trees and lianas showed rather similar floristic patterns across different forest types and regions.
20050582|In the Laelatu wooded meadow in Estonia, famous for its phanerogam diversity, the bryophyte community has been investigated in order to compare its flora and diversity relationships with those of the vascular plant community. Ninety-six bryophyte species were found, 13 of them are hepatics; the majority of the bryophytes are epigeic species common to meadows and forests, including many calciphilous species. Vascular plants and bryophytes display opposite responses to fertilisation. For vascular plants, fertilisation increases the coverage and diminishes the number of species, while for bryophytes it diminishes coverage and increases the number of species. The relationship between the number of species in small plots and the total number of species in the area is similar for vascular plants and bryophytes. No significant changes in the bryophyte community in Laelatu wooded meadow has been detected during the last 30 years.
40212866|Plant communities at wetland edges typically exhibit strong zonation along water depth gradients, although community structure is not as simple as this common observation may suggest. Water levels fluctuate at many temporal scales and in varied patterns. Understanding of how water regime controls plant community structure requires information on how individual species are affected by water regime. The allocation of biomass to roots, tillers, stolons and inflorescences was measured over 16 weeks in two species of aquatic plants with contrasting life histories. Juncus articulatus L. produces large numbers of small seeds while Glyceria australis C. E. Hubb produces small numbers of large seeds. Both species also reproduce vegetatively. Changes in biomass allocation were measured in response to duration, frequency and amplitude of water level fluctuations. The fluctuations in water level were achieved by suspending plants in pots from chains and raising and lowering the pots in and out of water in replicate tanks. There were complex responses to water regime components. As is common to many emergents, both species increased allocation to above ground vegetative structures in response to increasing water depth. Differences between the species in overall patterns of allocation reflected differences in life history. Juncus articulatus showed greater overall biomass production and greater proportional resource allocation to inflorescences than Glyceria australis. There were other differences in response to components of water regime that distinguished the species, mainly in allocation to reproduction in response to the range of depths (amplitude) and extended dry periods. These different functional responses to aspects of water level fluctuations indicate it may be possible to manipulate species composition if water levels are controllable. The most important characteristics of water regime were threshold events such as extremes of depth and dry periods. These may not be captured in measures of water regime such as average water levels.
20051160|Poor recruitment in Atriplex vesicaria Hewd ex Benth (bladder saltbush) under sheep grazing in the chenopod shrublands of southern Australia contributes to a decline in the shrub's population growth rate. This may lead to local extinction of the species over large areas around watering points. This study investigated whether low seed availability may contribute to poor recruitment. It examined the incidence of flowering and seed bank size at sites distributed across a large grazed paddock, and examined the longevity of seed in the soil. Grazing by sheep reduced the incidence of flowering and input to the seed bank. The proportion of shrubs with flowers increased with distance from water, showing the characteristic piosphere response. Shrubs on grazed sites closer to water experienced extended periods when they failed to flower or flowered poorly. The seed bank was negligible at three of the sites within 1650 m of water for all three years of sampling. In contrast, the seed bank at the most distant site sampled (2800 m from water) was small in 1990 (
20146684|The point-centered-quarter (PCQ) method has been applied in community analysis since the publication of the method nearly 50 years ago. This and other distance methods offer increased sampling efficiency over fixed-area plots (FAP), but have long been known to produce biased density estimates when plant distribution deviates from random spatial patterns. Spatial indices have been developed to quantify the direction of this bias when plant distributions are aggregated or evenly distributed. Its continued use, especially in community analysis, requires additional scrutiny in measurements of community structure. We measured 14 forest stands of varying age, elevation and disturbance regime using FAP and PCQ methods. Density estimates were biased, with the point-centered quarter method lower than fixed-area plot estimates when stems were aggregated and higher when stems were evenly spaced. In general the PCQ method underestimated species richness. The efficiency of the PCQ method makes it popular for ordination studies, although comparison of community structure varied from 18% to 90% similarity between the measurements of species basal area in the same stands using the two different methods. The bias observed in calculations of stem density, species abundance and community similarity indicate that use of the PCQ method should be approached with caution when used in community level analysis.
41508827|Recent studies suggest that evergreen plants may maintain their photosynthetic capacity through the winter. Since mild winters are predicted to be more frequent in the future, the metabolic activity of plants is also likely to increase. The aim of the present study was to assess how various environmental factors, such as temperature, photoperiod and preceding frost, affect the recovery of photosynthesis during a mild spell in winter. The recovery of photosynthesis was studied in a series of growth chamber experiments where the overwintering of lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea) was interrupted by an intermittent warm spell of 1 week during different phases of winter. Rapid activation was observed in all the experiments during the first 3-4 days. No obvious effects of the phase of winter or photoperiod on the recovery of photosynthesis were observed, but a severe freezing treatment prior to the warm spell retarded the recovery significantly. Once recovered, however, lingonberry was able to maintain high rates of photosynthesis even at nearfreezing temperatures, which prevail in their natural sub-nivean environment. The apparent quantum yield of photosynthesis remained high through the winter for lingonberry. This may prove advantageous for evergreen dwarf shrubs which overwinter in dim environments under snow.
41412373|In Rocky Mountain forests, fire can act as a mechanism of change in plant community composition if postfire conditions favor establishment of species other than those that dominated prefire tree communities. We sampled pre and postfire overstory and postfire understory species following recent (1988-2006) stand-replacing fires in Glacier National Park (GNP), Montana. We identified changes in relative density of tree species and groups of species (xerophytes vs. mesophytes and reseeders vs. resprouters) in early succession. Postfire tree seedling densities were adequate to maintain prefire forest structure, but relative densities among species were variously changed. Changes were directly related to individual species' response to severe fires. Most notably, relative density of the mesophytic resprouter quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) and the xerophytic reseeder lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) increased substantially following fire, with a concomitant decline in proportional abundance of other tree species that, in some cases, dominated stands before fire. Trends identified in our study suggest that forest community shifts toward those dominated by lodgepole pine and quaking aspen are occurring in GNP. Cover of understory species was not affected by tree species composition or density. These forest communities will likely change throughout succession with the addition of shade-intolerant species in early serai stages and shade-tolerant species later in succession. However, with increased fire frequency, the lodgepole pine-dominated postfire communities observed in our study may become more common throughout time. lodgepole pine and quaking aspen are occurring in GNP. Cover of understory species was not affected by tree species composition or density. These forest communities will likely change throughout succession with the addition of shade-intolerant species in early serai stages and shade-tolerant species later in succession. However, with increased fire frequency, the lodgepole pine-dominated postfire communities observed in our study may become more common throughout time.
40212863|The balance between facilitation and competition in plants changes with species characteristics and environmental conditions. Facilitative effects are common in natural ecosystems, particularly in stressful environments or years. Contrarily, in artificial associations of plants, such as agroforestry systems, some authors have suggested that even when facilitative effects may occur, net balance of tree effects on grasses is usually negative, particularly in dry environments. The aim of this study was to determine the net effect of the exotic ponderosa pine on the native grass Festuca pallescens (St. Ives) Parodi in agroforestry systems in Patagonia. Soil water content, plant water status, and relative growth were measured in the grass growing in different treatments (determined by tree cover level) during two growing seasons with contrasting climatic conditions. Facilitative effects of trees over grass water status were recorded only when water availability was high. A net negative effect was detected on dates when soil water content was very low and evaporative demand was high. The strength of these negative effects depended on tree density and climatic conditions, being higher in treatments with lower tree canopy cover. These results indicate that the positive effect of trees could only be expected under relatively low stress conditions. However, relative growth of grasses was always similar in plants growing in forested plots than in open grassland. Differences in biomass allocation for grasses growing in shade and open habitats may reconcile these contrary results. Our results highlight the importance of the physiology of a species (relative drought and shade tolerance) in determining the response of a plant to a particular interacting species.
20147013| We studied the impact of the seed damaging gall midge larva Geomyia alpina on its perennial alpine host plant Geum reptans. We analysed the effect of seed predation on reproduction by seeds, i.e. seed number, seed mass, and seed viability and on growth and clonal propagation of non-protected plants in comparison to plants protected from predation by an insecticide. Additionally, we assessed the consequences of seed predation for population growth using matrix projection modelling. Seed predation resulted in a decrease in total seed mass per flower head by 23.8% in non-protected plants (P &lt 0.05). Individual seed mass decreased with increasing infestation intensity (P &lt 0.05). Seed number remained unaffected because the sucking feeding behaviour by gall midge larvae does not evoke seed abortion. Percent germination of seeds from non-protected plants was reduced by 97.9% compared to seeds from protected plants. According to reduced seed viability, modelling revealed a decrease in population growth rate from  = 1.055 to  = 1.041. Predation did neither influence total plant biomass nor biomass fractions. But stolon dry-weight of non-protected plants increased by 24.1% (P &lt 0.05), which may indicate a trade-off between sexual reproduction and clonal propagation. Our results demonstrate that despite substantial reduction of viable seeds, predation by gall midge larvae only slightly affected population growth of G. reptans suggesting that in this alpine species, persistence by longevity and clonal propagation can balance potential seed losses by predation, at least for local population growth. 
40212855|Dioecy, a rather rare phenomenon in the plant kingdom seems to be more prevalent on oceanic islands. The high incidence of dioecy on these islands could result from dioecious colonists among which a small percentage show leaky dioecy, which is an ability to self- fertilise. In this study, we report the occurrence of leaky dioecy in one of the 11 extant Diospyros species endemic to Mauritius. Female flowers on the leaky dioecious plants were artificially pollinated and bagged. Populations of D. egrettarum, D. leucomelas, D. melanida, D. revaughanii, D. tessellaria were all male- biased with a ratio of at least 2:1. Leaky dioecy occurred only in one Diospyros species, D. egrettarum where hermaphrodite plants represented 2% of the populations studied. Seeds collected from them had the same germination rate (approximately 40%) as the ones obtained from strictly unisexual female plants of D. egrettarum. The fact that leaky dioecy led to the production of fertile seeds opens the possibility that a single pioneer Diospyros plant could have played a major role in the establishment of reproductively viable populations in Mauritius.
20050764|Clonal reproduction may contribute to plant evolution either by affecting population biology or by allowing partially sterile individuals (e.g., hybrids) repeated opportunities to reproduce sexually. The interplay of hybridization and clonal reproduction was first proposed by Stebbins (1950), but previously has not been tested experimentally. Alternative models for the effects of hybridization include speciation, introgression, and swamping. Salix spp. were chosen to test comparatively these hypotheses because they are easily hybridized and cloned. Over 500 separate crosses and backcrosses were made and over 6000 separate plants were measured in field experiments and statistically compared for significance to both evolutionary theory and plant breeding for biomass production. The F hybrids in this study always equalled, and in the case of the hybrid PR, outperformed their parents in vegetative parameters. It seems likely that even without reproducing sexually, these F hybrids could exist as successful individuals (sensu Stebbins 1950). However, it also seems likely that they would sexually reproduce: three of four F hybrids studied (RX, RP, and PR) equalled or surpassed their parents in sexual parameters when crossing with at least one other accession. Of the alternative models, experimental data suggest that introgression would be the most likely outcome of a hybridization event. The hybrid XR, however, was partially sterile and performed poorly when crossing with all other accessions in its group except S. exigua (pistillate parent). Thus, this hybrid may fit Stebbins' model of a partially sterile yet vegetatively vigorous plant that can exist as a successful individual and make some contribution to interspecific gene flow over time. This is the first experimental study to confirm the evolutionary importance of clonal reproduction coupled with hybridization. However, distinguishing any of these evolutionary pathways would be difficult in nature using morphological techniques, as interspecific hybrids tend to resemble their pistillate parents in terms of leaf shape.
23500372|The fine roots of plants are key structures enabling soil resource acquisition, yet our understanding of their dynamics and the factors governing them is still underdeveloped, especially in tropical forests. We evaluated whether Bornean tree communities on soils with contrasting resource availability display different soil resource uptake strategies, based on their fine root properties and dynamics, and related responses of fine roots to the availability of multiple nutrients. Using root cores and ingrowth cores, we quantified variation in community-level fine root properties (biomass, length, and area) and their growth rates, biomass turnover rate, and specific root length (SRL) between clay and sandy loam soils, on which tree community composition differs dramatically. We found that standing fine root biomass and biomass, length, and area growth were higher in sandy loam, the soil type that is better-drained, coarser-textured, and less fertile for most nutrients. In clay SRL was significantly greater, and turnover tended to be faster, than in sandy loam. Across both soils, greater supplies of K + , NH 4 + , and PO 4 3- were associated with greater standing biomass and growth rates of fine roots, suggesting foraging for these nutrients. Our data support the hypothesis that the sandy loam tree community achieves fine root absorptive area through faster growth and greater investment on a mass basis, whereas trees on clay achieve a similar standing absorptive area through slower growth of less-dense fine root tissues. Furthermore, our results suggest colimitation by multiple nutrients, which may enhance tree species coexistence through increased dimensionality of soil-resource niches.
20050705|This study documents the increased distribution of mangrove communities into the oligohaline regions of the Mnamo river as a consequence of a dam constructed in 1965. The dam caused a major change in the discharge regime of the water, stopping the annual floodings and allowing an extensive upriver intrusion of saline waters. Penetration of salt water from the sea due to the daily tides, that would be observed only during the dry season, occurs now throughout the year. Three sites were chosen along the upper, middle and lower river course. The evolution of site geomorphology and vegetation was evaluated over 3 periods, from 1932 to 1996, using aerial photographs and recent field surveys. Soil and plant samples were taken in the mangrove communities of two sites nearer to the river mouth along 100 m transects inland from the river fringe. The influence of sea water in soils was measured by the concentration of Na, Mg, Cl and SO in the interstitial soil water. In plants, the impact of soil salinity was determined by the concentration of Na, K, and Mg in mature leaves. The geomorphological processes created new habitats (sand bars) for aquatic and terrestrial vegetation. In the middle and lower river course tidal penetration of sea water due to lower river discharge salinized the soil, allowing mangrove establishment. This occurred mainly in the open sand bars or in areas with sparse herbaceous vegetation. The ion content was higher in the down river site and also higher in the subsoils compared with the topsoils. The apparent expansion rate of a plant community dominated by a mangrove species (Rhizophora mangle) increased from 1
23267486|Browsing by exotic mule deer on Santa Catalina Island (SCI) off the coast of southern California may diminish the post-fire resilience of native shrublands. To assess this, deer exclosures were established following a wildfire to monitor post-fire recovery of three dominant, native shrub species (Heteromeles arbutifolia, Rhus integrifolia, and Rhamnus pirifolia). Post-fire resprout growth, mortality, and tissue water status as well as pre- and post-fire shrub density and cover were measured inside and outside of deer exclosures. We found that deer browsing significantly limited post-fire resprout growth and led to increased mortality of resprouting H. arbutifolia shrubs (88 % mortality outside compared to 11 % inside exclosures). Post-fire resprouts maintained favorable water status during the study despite drought conditions, indicating that water stress was not a proximate cause of resprout mortality. Deer browsing resulted in a >93 % reduction in canopy coverage of dominant shrub species. The dramatic reduction of native shrubs at this site may create opportunities for displacement by exotic species, resulting in eventual vegetation-type conversion. The observed link between intense browsing and post-fire shrub mortality provides much needed information concerning the environmental impact of exotic deer on SCI and illustrates the interaction between exotic herbivores and fire on an island system.
20051023|The distribution of woody species within the 260 km-long riparian corridor of the Lower Caura River, a nutrient-poor tributary of the Orinoco River, draining the Guiana Shield in Venezuela is related to environmental variables. TWINSPAN clustering and a Canonical Correspondence ordination were used on abundance data for the 110 most common tree species in 51 sample plots. Four groups are identified: (i) upstream of La Mura Rapids, narrow floodplains in constrained valleys with steep slopes show marked differences between sites dominated by channel lateral accretion (levees, Group B) and overbank deposition (swamps, Group A), (ii) downstream of the rapids, levees (Group C) are differentiated from a more heterogeneous floodplain (Group D) influenced by a backwater effect caused by the ponding of the Caura River by the Orinoco. A Multiple discriminant analysis of these groups resulted in a function including depth of inundation, ratio of alkaline/alkaline earth major cations, and soil phosphorous content, which accounted for 83% of the variance between the four groups. Inundation level and phosphorous content were also the most significant variables in the ordination, within which the first two axes explained 48% of the species- environment relationships. Tree density, species richness and diversity (H') are shown to change significantly along the lower Caura with highest values associated with levees in sectors upstream of the La Mura Rapids; effects of terrestrialization and intermediate disturbance are proposed to explain these patterns. Floristic elements typical of both Amazonian Igap and Vrzea forests are shown to occur along the whole riparian corridor of the lower Caura, but the majority occur downstream of La Mura Rapids. The intermediate nutritional status of the Caura River and a hydroecological confluence effect associated with higher flooding depths and stronger biogeochemical gradients along the lower reach are suggested to explain the co-occurrence of Igap and Vrzea species.
40305593|The biologically mediated transfer of nutrients from one part of a landscape to another may create nutrient gradients or subsidize the productivity at specific locations. If limited, this focused redistribution of the nutrient may create nonrandom landscape patterns that are unrelated to underlying environmental gradients. The Florida Everglades, USA, is a large freshwater wetland that is patterned with tree islands, elevated areas that support woody vegetation. A survey of 12 tree islands found total soil phosphorus levels 3-114 times greater on the island head than the surrounding marsh, indicating that the Florida Everglades is not a homogeneous oligotrophic system. It was estimated that historically 67% of the phosphorus entering the central Everglades was sequestered on tree islands, which are ~ 3.8% of the total land area. This internal redistribution of phosphorus onto tree islands due to the establishment of trees may be one reason that marshes have remained oligotrophic and may explain the spatial differentiation of the patterned Everglades landscape.
20050777|A comparative study of community structure and seasonal growth dynamics in the arid winter rainfall regions of the Succulent Karoo in South Africa and the Mojave Desert of the United States suggests that remarkably divergent patterns of resource use and resultant growth form diversity exist in regions with outwardly similar climatic regimes. An understanding of these divergent patterns in the two winter rainfall deserts allows predictions to be made on vegetation response to global change. Above-ground plant growth in the Succulent Karoo begins with the first significant rains in late summer and continues through winter because moderate minimum temperatures allow continued growth. These communities have low structural diversity above-ground, but also below-ground, where root systems commonly do not exceed 20 cm in depth. These shallow root systems harvest water from upper soil horizons soon after rain falls, and growth declines as rainfall decreases in late spring. In contrast, low temperatures during winter inhibit growth in the Mojave Desert until early spring at a time when a mean 74% of the hydrologic year precipitation (July-June) has already occurred. Thus species in this structurally diverse system rely on deeper stores of water for growth in spring and early summer. A global change scenario of a 2 to 4 C increase in mean annual temperature and increased summer rainfall in the Mojave desert would be expected to produce similar conditions in the Mojave Desert to those that exist in the Succulent Karoo today. Assuming no genetic constraints on phenotypic plasticity, this would suggest increased species diversity and a decline in structural diversity in the Mojave Desert over evolutionary time. Increased summer rainfall in the Succulent Karoo would be expected to lead to invasions of grasses and thus increased competitive pressure reducing community diversity.
20146928|Numerous studies have documented declines in plant diversity in response to habitat loss in fragmented landscapes. However, determining the mechanisms that lead to species loss is challenging using solely a correlative approach. Here we link correlative assessments of plant community composition with seed additions for a focal species to test the hypothesis that distributions of forests plants within a fragmented landscape are limited by seed dispersal. Woody plant species richness of fragments declined as fragments (n = 26) became more isolated by agricultural fields. We predicted that if these isolation effects were driven by poor dispersal rather than other effects associated with habitat loss, then plants should vary in their response to isolation in relation to their seed size (i.e., stronger effects for plants with larger seeds). As predicted under this dispersal limitation hypothesis, sensitivity of bird-dispersed shrubs to isolation was related to their seed mass, with species with heavy seeds (e.g., Lindera benzoin) exhibiting stronger declines in presence across isolation gradients than species with light seeds. Seed addition experiments were performed for Lindera benzoin in two high isolation forest fragments (nearest neighbor mean distance = 803 m) where Lindera was naturally absent, and two low isolation fragments (nearest neighbor mean distance = 218 m) with naturally occurring Lindera populations. Seed addition and control plots (n = 50 1 m plots per fragment) were monitored for 13 censuses over 3 years. Across all four fragments, seed additions resulted in significant increases in Lindera seedling recruitment with no differences in final seedling establishment among fragments. However, insect herbivory was higher on Lindera seedlings in high isolation compared to low isolation fragments and was negatively correlated with seedling survival over some years. Consistent with prior work, our results confirm that seed dispersal plays a significant role in affecting plant diversity in fragmented landscapes. However, results also suggest the need for a better understanding of how additional processes, such as herbivory, may be altered as habitat is lost and what effects such changes have for forest plants.
23500333|The correlation between forest decline and calcium (Ca) depletion under long-term acid deposition remains elusive in China due to the high level of Ca deposition. We compared two species (Abies fabri and Rhododendron calophytum) for their growth pattern and base elements concentration in both polluted (Mt. Emei) and unpolluted (Mt. Gongga) sites in Sichuan, southwestern China. A. fabri grown at Mt. Emei had poorer crown condition, slower radial growth rate, and lower seedling density under long-term acid deposition, which correlated closely with the reduced Ca concentration in foliage and tree-ring, in comparison with those at Mt. Gongga. In contrast, R. calophytum showed a stable Ca level and thus displayed normal growth between the two sites. The differential capability of these two species to acclimate to poor Ca environment is one of the keys to understanding the long-term ecological effect of changing atmospheric acid and Ca deposition in the subalpine forest in southwestern China.
20051243|Pico da Neblina National Park, located in north-western Amazonia, Brazil, is characterized by considerable habitat diversity resulting from an orographic zonation of vegetation (from 100 to 3,014 m above sea level) and a mosaic pattern of soil types with lowland primary tropical rainforest being the predominant ecosystem. A tree inventory of the lowland areas of the Park was conducted as part of an ecological study of primates. Two hectares of forest were inventoried within the limits of a 500 hectare study site. There were 1569 trees with diameter at breast height  10 cm in the sample (minimum of 229 species in 45 families). The tree species Eperua leucantha and Hevea cf. brasiliensis dominated the forest accounting for 29% of the sampled trees. Three forest types were represented: chavascal, terra firme and caatinga. Caatinga was the least diverse forest (H = 0.9), and terra firme the most diverse (H=1.5). Low diversity in caatinga was associated with high species dominance by Eperua leucantha, Micrandra sprucei and Hevea cf. brasiliensis which together accounted for 66% of all sampled trees in one caatinga plot. Compared to Amazonian forests elsewhere, the ranking order of plant families in Pico da Neblina was peculiar in that Leguminosae sensu latu and Euphorbiaceae dominated the sample accounting for 52% of all marked trees. Such families were represented by few tree species, all of which were characterized by dry, large-seeded sclerocarpic fruits. The consequent low availability of fleshy fruits in the forest is suggested as a possible contributing factor to the observed low abundance and diversity of primates in the lowlands of Pico da Neblina.
20146595|In fire-prone communities such as fynbos, many species rely on regeneration from seed banks in the soil. Persistent seed banks are particularly important for species with life spans shorter than the average fire cycle, in order to counter local extinction. Persistent seed banks also give potential for restoring ecosystems following disturbances such as alien plant invasion. This study investigated the seed persistence patterns of 25 perennial species, representing several growth forms and life histories, during a three-year burial. Long-term persistence (i.e., seed bank half-life exceeding two years) was found in the hard-seeded Fabaceae and Pelargonium, and the nut-fruited Proteaceae. In this group, germinability was low and dormancy increased further following burial, resulting in a highly viable, dormant seed bank after three-year's burial. A second group with potentially long-term persistent seeds includes four taxa (Pseudopentameris, Passerina, Elegia and Restio) that either have low germinability or develop secondary dormancy following burial. Dormancy in the latter group was partially countered by exposure to smoke-seed primer. Of the small-seeded species, only two Erica species with high initial dormancy had long-term persistent seed banks. The other species mostly displayed high initial germinability and short-term persistent seed banks (i.e., seed bank half-life less than two years). This group included taxa with short to medium life-spans (Syncarpha, Roella) that were expected to have long-term persistent seeds in order to buffer against local extinction following average to long fire-return intervals. We hypothesize that light may play a role in overcoming secondary dormancy in those species, and could have resulted in an underestimate for seed persistence in this study. Alternatively, those short to medium life-span species persist via inter-fire recruitment in gaps or long-distance dispersal (of the smallest seed). No correlations were found between seed persistence and seed mass or variance in seed dimensions. Nor was a correlation found between seed persistence and phenol concentration. In fynbos, seed burial of larger seeds by ants and rodents are major processes that operate in conjunction with passive burial of small seeds. Selection for persistence can be expected to operate across all seed sizes and shapes in fire-prone communities.
40212849|We studied the effects of logging history, topography, and potential insolation on the lower- elevation limit of existing spruce-fir forest in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GRSM). Dummy- variable regression, analysis of variance, and classification trees were applied to environmental data within a geographic information system framework. The effect of logging history on the lower limit of spruce-fir depended on aspect. On north-facing slopes (270-90), the presence of spruce-fir was independent of both logging history and potential insolation. On south-facing sites (90-270) , the elevation of spruce-fir was significantly higher (by 122 m) in areas that had been logged historically. Classification-tree models suggested an even greater logging effect, indicating that both the lower limit and the upper dominance zone of spruce-fir forest are, on average, nearly 200 m higher in historically logged landscapes. Presence of spruce-fir on south aspects was also significantly related to potential insolation, but the strength of this effect was not dependent on logging history. Classification- tree models, developed separately using data from logged sites versus unlogged sites, were used to estimate the current area of spruce-fir forest in the park expected under the hypothetical scenario that no spruce-fir had been logged (38,675 ha) versus the alternate scenario that it had hall been logged (11,727 ha). At present the area of spruce-fir forest in the park is 21,242 ha. We found greater prevalence of spruce-fir on the Tennessee side of the divide on south aspects and historically logged sites, possibly due to greater occurrence of westerly winds and associated cloud cover.
40212870|The relationships among floristic, structural and physiognomic variables of the tree component, flooding regime variations and soil fertility were investigated in a riparian forest fragment (ca. 43 ha) in the Rio Botucara watershed near the confluence with the Rio Jacui, southern Brazil. All the trees with a dbh  15 cm were surveyed in 100 contiguous 10 x 10 m plots and soil chemical and textural variables were obtained from the analyses of 15 topsoil samples (0-20 cm depth) collected at different locations. The sample sites encompass all the topographic variation of the area. We used canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to seek correlations between environmental variables and tree component distribution. The 1,547 surveyed individu- als belonged to 30 species and 16 botanical families. The Shannon diversity index (H') and the Pielou equability (J') were 1.995 and 0.586 nats ind., respectively. Sebastiania commersoniana, Casearia sylvestris, Eugenia uniflora and Eugenia hyemalis presented the highest importance values. Species' densities chiefly correlated with site elevation, flooding regime and soil chemical fertility. The analyses of ecological categories (EC) revealed that most species are heliophylous and typical of early successional stages. Richness and diversity (P < 0.001) variations from different topographic positions reflect that at the local scale, flooding was a limiting factor for the establishment of certain species suggesting that local processes control species richness and diversity.
20050706|The contribution of tree sprouts to the recovery of tropical moist forest in Eastern Paraguay after swidden agriculture was examined in 2-15 yr old forest fallows and compared with sprouting in mature forest. The proportion of stems of sprout origin, as individuals arising from stumps or lower parts of live stems ( 1 m), in the stem density declined from 59.5% (stems 1-4.9 cm DBH) and 21.0% (stems  5 cm DBH) in the young regrowth stands (2-5 yr old) to 32.9% and 19.6%, respectively in the older regrowth stands (10 and 15 yr old). Sprouts were absent in the mature forest. Out of 58 species sampled in the regrowth stands, 28 occured both as resprouts and seed regeneration, 7 were only found as resprouts, and 23 were only present as seed-established individuals. No significant relationship was found between the successional status or the growth form of species and apparent resprouting capacity. Seed-established individuals of Trema micrantha were predominant in the two and three-year old regrowth stands. In the more advanced successional stages, T. micrantha was replaced by Cecropia pachystachia and other secondary species. Species richness increased during succession. Species-abundance distribution in the successional stands followed a log series pattern, whereas the mature forest showed a log normal distribution. Floristic similarity to the mature forest, calculated with the qualitative Soerensen index, increased from 0.45 (1-4.9 cm DBH) in the young regrowth stands to 0.52 in the older regrowth stands. In the tree stratum ( 5 cm DBH), however, floristic composition approached only 0.28 in the younger regrowth stands and 0.44 in the older regrowth stands, respectively that of the mature forest.
20051052|We studied the vertical distribution of Lepidoptera from a canopy walkway within a dipterocarp rain forest at Kinabalu Park (Borneo) using three different methods: (1) Bait traps to survey fruit-feeding nymphalid butterflies, (2) standardized counts for predominantly flower-visiting butterflies and their potential predators, aerial-hawking birds, and (3) attraction by blacklight for hawk- and tiger moths. There was a distinct decrease in the abundance of fruit-feeding nymphalids towards the canopy, probably due to a reduced and less predictable availability of rotting fruits in higher strata. These constraints might also be responsible for a higher abundance variation in the canopy, and a significant shift in size from larger species in the understorey to smaller ones in the canopy. Changes of microclimate and the conspicuous increase of insectivorous aerial-hawking birds from ground to canopy layer may be responsible for the prominent change in species composition of fruit-feeding nymphalids between 20 and 30 m. Nectar-feeding Lepidoptera showed a reversed abundance pattern. One main factor contributing to the much higher abundance of flower-visiting butterflies and moth taxa in the canopy, such as Sphingidae and some Arctiinae, might be the increase of nectar resources available in upper vegetation layers. A distinctly higher diversity in hawkmoths was also found in the canopy. A higher abundance of insectivorous aerial-hawking birds in the canopy might contribute to the shift in body design of fruit-feeding nymphalids from more slender bodies at lower vegetation layers to stouter ones (i.e. species which are stronger on the wing) in the canopy. Larval resources could play an additional role in specialisation on but a small part of the vertical gradient. This may explain stratification pattern of the nymphalid subfamilies Morphinae and Satyrinae. Monocotyledoneous larval food plants of both taxa, whose flight activity is largely restricted to the understorey, occur mostly in lower vegetation layers. Our observations on a wide taxonomic and ecological range of butterflies and moths indicate that tropical forest canopies hold a distinct and unique Lepidoptera fauna, whose species richness and abundance patterns differ from lower strata. However, the notion of tropical forest canopies as peaks of terrestrial diversity does not hold uniformly for all taxa or guilds.
23500360|Variation in vegetation density creates a range of red to far-red ratios of irradiance (R:FR) potentially permitting fine-scale discrimination of light conditions for seed germination. However, remarkably few studies have explored whether R:FR responses of germination vary among species that differ in distribution and life-history traits. In this study, we explored the relationships between R:FR requirements and four species characteristics: seed mass, latitudinal distribution (tropical vs. temperate), seed dormancy (dormant vs. nondormant), and plant growth form (woody vs. nonwoody). We obtained data on germination response to R:FR of 62 species from published literature and added new data for ten species from aseasonal tropical forests in Borneo. First, we analyzed whether species characteristics influenced overall light dependency of germination using phylogenetic logistic regression. We found that seed mass had a strong negative effect on light dependency, but that the seed mass at which tropical taxa had a 50 % probability of light dependency was 40 times that of temperate taxa. For light-dependent species, we found that the threshold R:FR that stimulates 50 % of maximum germination (R:FR 50 ) was also related to seed mass and latitudinal distribution. In agreement with an earlier study, we found that for temperate taxa, the R:FR 50 was significantly negatively correlated with seed mass. In contrast, for 22 tropical taxa, we found a significant positive correlation. These opposing relationships suggest contrasting selection pressures on germination responses of tropical taxa (mostly trees) and temperate herbaceous plants, and which are likely related to differences in seed longevity, seed burial rates, and reproductive output.
40305737|The number of species (species richness) is certainly the most widely used descriptor of plant diversity. However, estimating richness is a difficult task because plant censuses are prone to overlooking and identification errors that may lead to spurious interpretations. We used calibration data from the French ICP-level II plots (RENECOFOR) to assess the magnitude of the two kinds of errors in large forest plots. Eleven teams of professional botanists recorded all plants on the same eight 100-m2 plots in 2004 (four plots, eights teams) and 2005 (four plots, nine teams including six from 2004), first independently and then consensually. On average, 15.5% of the shrubs and trees above 2 m were overlooked and 2.3% not identified at the species level or misidentified. On average, 19.2% of the plant species below 2 m in height were overlooked and 5.3% were misidentified and 1.3% were misidentified at the genus level (especially bryophytes). The overlooking rate also varied with plant species, morphological type, plot and team. It was higher when only one botanist made the census. It rapidly decreased with species cover and increased with plot species richness, the recording time of the census in the tree layer and the number of the censuses carried out during the day in the ground layer. Familiarity of the team with the local flora reduced the risk of overlooking and identification errors, whereas training had little impact. Differences in species richness (over space or time) in large plots should be cautiously interpreted, especially when several botanists participate in the survey. In particular, the quality of the data needs to be evaluated using calibration training and, if necessary, may be improved by involving more experienced botanists working in teams and by fixing a minimum recording time.
20146669|The cerrado has been identified as one of the richest and most threatened biomes of the world, but few phytogeographical studies have been undertaken in the region. A total of 70 land systems based on climate, landscape and soils have been identified in the region, but it remains to be seen if the distribution and structure of the plant communities support these divisions. The aim of this work was to compare the floristic and structural similarity of cerrado sensu stricto within and between three physiographic units, named Pratinha, Veadeiros and So Francisco, which contain six land systems in central Brazil and cover 10 degrees of latitude and five degrees of longitude. The woody vegetation of 15 selected sites of the cerrado sensu stricto physiognomy was surveyed under a standardized methodology. The number of species per site varied from 55 to 97, with most sites having around 60 to 70 species, and Shannon's diversity indices ranged from 3.44 to 3.73, with most sites around 3.5 suggesting high alpha diversity. Srensen's floristic similarity index was high, with all Figures above 0.5 between the sites in the same land system in each physiographic unit but low between sites in different land systems in the Veadeiros. Czekanowski similarity indices were lower than Srensen's in the comparisons due to a high structural differentiation between the sites. There is a large overlap in species occurrence in the sites but the size of their populations is very different at each site. Therefore, the high beta diversity is mostly due to differences in abundance of species between sites. The sites were separated by physiographic units, considering the first three divisions of TWINSPAN classification. The first axis of DCA ordination showed a gradient going from the cerrado on deep soils in Pratinha, through to those on sandy soils in So Francisco and ending on the shallower soils of the Veadeiros. Land systems conformed well with the floristic and structural variations of the vegetation, indicating their potential use in designing a network of conservation areas in the cerrado region and as a basis for decision-making on management.
23362429|Human activities have deeply transformed the Mediterranean landscape for millennia. Wetland and riverbed vegetation are among the most affected ecosystems because of the value of these areas for agriculture, due to their rich soil and water availability. This has caused the fragmentation, population reduction, and extinction of many species. We focus our study on Ulmus laevis Pallas, an endangered tree species in the Iberian Peninsula, as an extreme example of these formations. We study the diversity and fine-scale spatial genetic structure of two human disturbed wetland populations with chloroplast markers and nuclear microsatellites. We evaluate their recovery possibilites, and how they will be affected by future aridification and water table depletion. Our results show that although these populations have suffered bottlenecks and have low genetic diversity, they maintain the same diversity levels as the European populations. Despite the low genetic variation that could contribute to inbreeding problems in the future, we discuss that the main threat of the species is habitat destruction. Finally, we propose some management and conservation policies to ameliorate these effects.
20050946|Temporal pattern of growth, time and depth of root activity, and responses to N, P and K enrichment were measured for the three most abundant species in species-poor vegetation on fertile alluvial soil to examine whether differences in these characteristics could account for their co-existence. The responses of these co-existing species to nutrients were tested in a factorial experiment of N, P and K additions. In the control plots, repeated harvests and injections of Sr at different depths in the soil were used to test differences among species in temporal and spatial pattern of root activity. Root activities were assessed from the Sr concentrations in the aboveground biomass. Differences in temporal pattern of growth and root activity, but not differences in spatial root activity between species, could account for the co-existence of species, since Conium, the most abundant species, was the earliest grown and the deepest-rooted species and it died back when the other two species started to maximize their growth and root activity. In comparison with the second most abundant species Lactuca, Conium had higher N but lower P tissue concentrations. Addition of N favoured Conium and almost eliminated Lactuca, while P and/or K additions increased the abundance of Lactuca and restricted that of Conium. These results provide indications that the differential responses of species to nutrients could be explained by species co-existence also in fertile soils. The changes in vegetation composition after nutrient enrichment could merely be predicted by the species' tissue concentrations of nutrients. The addition of a particular nutrient tended to favor the species with the highest tissue concentration of this nutrient.
40540363|Hedychium gardnerianum is a major invader of native Hawaiian forests and suspected of smothering native understory species and preventing native tree seedlings' establishment. In this study, effects on species composition in six vegetation layers of a Hawaiian rainforest were examined (Tree Layer 1, Tree Layer 2, Fern-Shrub Layer, Herb Layer, Bryophyte-Herb Layer, and Bryophyte Layer). Three different area types were compared, which included (i) Natural area types with no influence of non-native species, (ii) Ginger area types with a Hedychium gardnerianum dominated herb layer, and (iii) Cleared area types, which were treated with herbicide to remove alien species in 1998. Species composition sampled in 2004 of the upper three vegetation layers (Tree Layer 1, Tree Layer 2, and Fern-Shrub Layer) differed little. The lower three vegetation layers (Herb Layer, Bryophyte-Herb Layer, and Bryophyte Layer) showed highly significant differences. Species composition in the Ginger area types showed notable abundances of non-native Psidium cattleianum, but low coverage of native species. In the area freed of Hedychium gardnerianum (Cleared area types), native species are regenerating, although it still reveals signs of disturbance. If this area is managed to prevent reinvasion, then it is likely to regain a natural forest structure.
20050999|Vegetative desiccation tolerance is a widespread but uncommon occurrence in the plant kingdom generally. The majority of vegetative desiccation-tolerant plants are found in the less complex clades that constitute the algae, lichens and bryophytes. However, within the larger and more complex groups of vascular land plants there are some 60 to 70 species of ferns and fern allies, and approximately 60 species of angiosperms that exhibit some degree of vegetative desiccation tolerance. In this report we analyze the evidence for the differing mechanisms of desiccation tolerance in different plants, including differences in cellular protection and cellular repair, and couple this evidence with a phylogenetic framework to generate a working hypothesis as to the evolution of desiccation tolerance in land plants. We hypothesize that the initial evolution of vegetative desiccation tolerance was a crucial step in the colonization of the land by primitive plants from an origin in fresh water. The primitive mechanism of tolerance probably involved constitutive cellular protection coupled with active cellular repair, similar to that described for modern-day desiccation-tolerant bryophytes. As plant species evolved, vegetative desiccation tolerance was lost as increased growth rates, structural and morphological complexity, and mechanisms that conserve water within the plant and maintain efficient carbon fixation were selected for. Genes that had evolved for cellular protection and repair were, in all likelihood, recruited for different but related processes such as response to water stress and the desiccation tolerance of reproductive propagules. We thus hypothesize that the mechanism of desiccation tolerance exhibited in seeds, a developmentally induced cellular protection system, evolved from the primitive form of vegetative desiccation tolerance. Once established in seeds, this system became available for induction in vegetative tissues by environmental cues related to drying. The more recent, modified vegetative desiccation tolerance mechanism in angiosperms evolved from that programmed into seed development as species spread into very arid environments. Most recently, certain desiccation-tolerant monocots evolved the strategy of poikilochlorophylly to survive and compete in marginal habitats with variability in water availability.
20051335|The role of microbial mats in wet dune slack succession is often discussed. We tested if presence of microbial mats may retard dune slack succession by lowering the germination and seeding survival of successor species. This hypothesis was tested on a set of typical dune slack species of the Frisian Islands in two climate chamber experiments. The species were separated into early-, intermediate- and late successional species. There were large differences in germination rates between species (2% - &gt 200% compared to the reference), but within a species the high germination rates were mostly found on sand without a microbial mat. Only the germination of Agrostis stolonifera appeared to be stimulated by the presence of a well-developed microbial mat, they were even higher than in the reference. Seedling survival also did not show different responses between successional stages. Seedlings placed on top of a microbial mat showed for most species lower survival rates compared to seedlings that were planted or placed on top of the sand. Growth was the only measured variable that differed between successional groups. Species of the early- and intermediate successional stages grew significantly better if a microbial mat was present whereas late successional species were not stimulated. Early and intermediate successional species seem to be favored by the presence of a microbial mat. An explanation for this may be that they can profit from the enhanced nitrogen availability caused by N-fixation by cyanobacteria in the microbial mat.
41508848|Exotic-dominated ecosystems with low diversity are becoming increasingly common. It remains unclear, though, whether differences between native and exotic species (driver model), or changes in disturbances or resources (passenger model), allow exotics to become competitive dominants. In our field experiment, plant species origin (native or exotic), cattle grazing (ungrazed or intensely grazed once), and species composition treatments were fully crossed and randomly assigned to four-species mixtures and monocultures of grassland plants. We found that biodiversity declined more rapidly in exotic than in native species mixtures, regardless of our grazing disturbance treatment. Early declines in species evenness (i.e., increases in dominance) led to subsequent declines in species richness (i.e., local extinctions) in exotic mixtures. Specifically, Simpson's diversity was 29% lower after 1 year, and species richness was 15% lower after 3 years, in exotic than in native mixtures. These rapid biodiversity declines in exotic mixtures were partly explained by decreased complementarity (i.e., niche partitioning and facilitation), presumably because exotic species lack the coevolutionary history that can lead to complementarity and coexistence in native communities. Thus, our results suggest that exotic species can drive biodiversity declines in the presence or absence of a grazing disturbance, partly because exotic species interactions differ from native species interactions. This implies that restoring plant biodiversity in grasslands may require removal of exotic species, in addition to disturbance management.
20050680|We investigated the importance of nutrients, soil moisture, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), and interspecific competition levels on the biomass allocation patterns of three wetland perennial plant species, Carex stricta Lam., Phalaris arundinacea L., and Typha latifolia L. A factorial experiment was conducted with high-low nutrient levels, high-low soil moisture levels, and with and without AMF inoculation. Under the experimental conditions, plant inoculation by AMF was too low to create a treatment and the AMF treatment was dropped from the total analysis. P. arundinacea and T. latifolia biomass were 73% and 77% higher, respectively, in the high nutrient treatment compared to the low nutrient treatment. Biomass allocation between shoots and roots remained relatively constant between environmental treatments, although shoot:root ratios of P. arundinacea declined in the low nutrient treatment. For C. stricta, the high nutrient and soil moisture treatments resulted in an increase in biomass of 50% and 15%, respectively. Shoot:root ratios were nearly constant among all environmental conditions. Biomass of T. latifolia and C. stricta was greatly decreased when grown with P. arundinacea. The rapid, initial height growth of P. arundinacea produced a spreading, horizontal canopy that overshadowed the vertical leaves of T. latifolia and C. stricta throughout the study. This pattern was repeated in both high and low nutrient and soil moisture treatments. When grown with P. arundinacea, C. stricta and T. latifolia significantly increased their mean shoot height, regardless of the nutrient or soil moisture level. The results of this experiment suggest that C. stricta and T. latifolia were light limited when growing with P. arundinacea and that canopy architecture is more important for biomass allocation than the other environmental conditions tested. The results also suggest that Phalaris arundinacea is an inherently better competitor (sensu Grime 1979) than C. stricta or T. latifolia.
40212981|Relations between vegetation characteristics and eco-hydrological processes were assessed in a pristine mire in the valley of the Ob River (Western Siberia). Along a transect from the terrace scarp to the river, field data were collected on vegetation composition, peat stratigraphy, peat chemistry, hydrology and hydrochemistry. Based on floristic composition, eight vegetation communities were distinguished. Hydraulic head measurements were used to obtain an indication of groundwater flow directions. The water balance of the mire was calculated with a two-dimensional steady-state numerical groundwater model. Water types were defined based on cluster analysis of hydrochemical data. The results revealed that the dominant hydrological factor in the Ob mire is the discharge of groundwater, which supplies about threefold more water than net precipitation. Although the discharge flux decreases with increasing distance from the terrace scarp, high water levels and a "groundwater-like" mire water composition were observed in the major part of the study site. Precipitation and river water play only a minor role. Despite dilution of discharging groundwater with rainwater, spatial differences in pH and solute concentrations of the surficial mire water are small and not reflected in the vegetation composition. Although small amounts of silt and clay were found in the peat in the proximity of the river, indicating the occurrence of river floods in former times, no river-flood zone could be recognized based on hydrochemical characteristics or vegetation composition. A comparison of the Ob mire with well-studied and near-natural mires in the Biebrza River valley (Poland) revealed substantial differences in both vegetation characteristics and the intensity and spatial pattern of eco-hydrological processes. Differences in the origin and ratios of water fluxes as well as a dissimilar land use history would seem to be key factors explaining the differences observed.
20051197|Changes in composition and structure of plant communities in relation to the soil and snow cover variation were analyzed along an altitudinal transect (1150-1750 m) from the mountain-temperate forests to a woody shrub community and alpine meadows on Mt Velk Gpel', Slovakia. The soils below the treeline ( 1510 m) had a more developed organic layer above the mineral substratum. Generally, soil depth decreased as the altitude increased, although the maximum values were recognized at a middle altitude in a beech stand. Snow was redistributed by westerly winds from the ridgeline down to the upper forest margin. Mean snow depth decreased with altitude up to almost snow-free sites around the summit. In the 48 plots at 16 sites we recorded 118 taxa including 6 tree, 7 shrub, 18 grass, 42 herb, 5 fern, 25 moss and 15 lichen species. The species diversity showed no distinct relationship to altitude but declined with canopy consolidation. The TWINSPAN floristic classification distinguished five groups of community types characterised by different dominants, and a further three clusters of samples from transition zones. Horizontal compositional heterogeneity increased in areas where trees were aggregated and tree basal area was smaller. Vegetation composition became more patchy at open-canopy Acer pseudoplatanus--Abies alba mixed forest at 1150 m, in Picea abies forest limit  1470 m, and in Pinus mugo krummholz at 1590 m. Species turnover of the entire transect was 6.1 half-changes as estimated by DCA. Despite this heterogeneity, none of the 15 elevational bands had significant aggregation of species' limits. Vegetation varied continuously, with individual species overlapping in transition zones delimited by dominant taxa. The coincident aggregation of up-slope and down-slope boundaries was found at a belt 1430-1510 m. This discrete ecotone corresponds to a shift from the closed coniferous forest to P. mugo krummholz. The second inherent up-slope boundary aggregation indicated the P. mugo krummholz -- alpine meadow vegetation transition at  1700 m. Spatial analysis (K-function) of eight forest plots (0.12 ha each) showed that at lower elevation, adult trees of the broad-leaf forest were closed to a random arrangement while at higher elevation, trees of evergreen coniferous stands became aggregated toward the forest limit with the highest intensity from 2 to 4 m. Altitudinal gradient and related factors explained 35% of the variance in vegetation data. Canonical correspondence analysis also showed that main vegetation changes above the treeline area were associated with the topographic pattern of pine shrubs and snow cover.
40540341|Fens in Central Europe are characterised by waterlogged organic substrate and low productivity. Human-induced changes due to drainage and mowing lead to changes in plant species composition from natural fen communities to fen meadows and later to over-drained, degraded meadows. Moderate drainage leads to increased vegetation productivity, and severe drainage results in frequent soil disturbances and less plant growth. In the present article, we analyse changes in plant trait combinations in the vegetation and the soil seed bank as well as changes in the seed bank types along gradient of drainage intensity. We hypothesize that an increase in productivity enhances traits related to persistence and that frequent disturbance selects for regeneration traits. We use multivariate statistics to analyse data from three disturbance levels: undisturbed fen, slightly drained fen meadow and severely drained degraded meadow. We found that the abundance of plants regenerating from seeds and accumulating persistent seed banks was increasing with degradation level, while plants reproducing vegetatively were gradually eliminated along the same trajectory. Plants with strong resprouting abilities increased during degradation. We also found that shifts in trait combinations were similar in the aboveground vegetation and in soil seed banks. We found that the density of short-term persistent seeds in the soil is highest in fen meadows and the density of long-term persistent seeds is highest in degraded meadows. The increase in abundance of species with strong regeneration traits at the cost of species with persistencerelated traits has negative consequences for the restoration prospects of severely degraded sites.
20050580|A study was made in Bukit Timah Nature Reserve of niche differentiation among 11 woody species that have very small seeds (22-460 g) and establish in deep shade, i.e., where the indirect site factor (isf) under cloudy conditions is 2%, and one taxonomically related light-demander (seed mass 33 g). Comparative observations were made on changing light requirement with age. The species varied from shrubs and treelets (Urophyllum) via small to medium-height trees (Ficus, Pternandra) to tall trees (Gynotroches and Pellacalyx). In general, the shorter species fruited in deep shade while the taller needed direct irradiance. All produced ripe fruit at least once a year. In 1-3% isf seedling mortality over 11 months was 24% for Urophyllum hirsutum and 57% for Pternandra echinata (two strongly shade-tolerant species); survivors produced appreciable new stem and leaf tissue. For two more light-demanding species (Ficus grossularioides and F. fistulosa) mean lamina area was much larger in small gaps (10% isf) than in the understorey (&lt3% isf), while for Urophyllum hirsutum it was much smaller. These three species showed the greatest difference in SLA. There were few significant intraspecific differences between gaps and understorey in concentrations of N, P or K. In a valley where there was no significant difference in isf between a path and adjacent understorey, seedlings of species with seeds &lt1 mg mean dry mass were five times as dense on transects along steep pathside banks as in the understorey 5 m upslope. The mean mid-bank slope was 66 (cf. 20 upslope). On mid-bank transects litter had a cover of 36% (cf. 95% upslope), and was thinner (0.8 vs 3.2 cm). The soil at 0-7 cm depth into the mid-bank had much lower concentrations of organic matter, total N and P (but not total K) and fine roots than that of upslope transects. All species were found to have vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza when 1-2 m tall in deep shade, several having very dense infections. Seedling form and responses are discussed in relation to potential adaptive value and possible evolutionary origin.
20146842|In 1998-2001, I studied disturbance effects on the population structure and dynamics of a grassland strict biennial Pedicularis sylvatica, and on the species demography (monthly dynamics of seedling recruitment in 1998 and within- and between-year survival in 1998-2000). In two Czech populations, I established three experimental disturbance regimes: (1) a gap treatment, that simulated grazing by clipping vegetation and creating small gaps, (2) a mowing treatment, where I clipped the vegetation, and (3) a no management treatment, where I left the vegetation untreated. The number of recruiting seedlings varied greatly by year, and demographic structure of populations showed significant year-to-year oscillations in mean seedling numbers, from low (3  0.7 s.e. per 0.25 m plot) to high (103  20). Inversely in the same years and plots, mean adult numbers in populations oscillated from high (12  2) to low (0.7  0.3). Disturbance effects were only important for seedling recruitment in early census dates in all years. In 1998, most seedlings recruited in April-May in gaps in both sites, but most died before winter. Within- and between-year survival was not affected by disturbance regimes but fluctuated significantly among years. Between-year survival increased with increasing size of the overwintering bud and was higher in disturbance treatments. Since the oscillations in population structure did not significantly vary in response to experimental disturbances, population dynamics may be driven endogenously rather than by disturbance events. The weak disturbance effects on species demography may also indicate population resilience to changes in habitat quality. However, since disturbances promoted seedling recruitment, grazing or mowing regimes are strongly recommended, as they create regeneration opportunities and maintain habitat quality, meeting the species long-term conservation goals.
20146714|The consequences of fire recurrence (1, 2 and 3 fires in 16 years) on plant and soil C, N, P and K from Quercus coccifera garrigues were analysed in the Valencia Region (E Spain). Plant and forest floor (L horizon) nutrient concentrations either changed weakly or showed no change with fire recurrence. At the soil surface (0-2.5 cm), soil potential mineralisable nitrogen increased and available P decreased after an initial increase, whereas exchangeable K was not affected by successive fires. However, the significance of those observed trends for N and P was site-dependent. Despite the rapid formation of the L soil horizon, fire recurrence did not permit the development of the whole forest floor profile observed in the unburned garrigues. These organic layers contained a great proportion of the total nutrient pool, especially for N. Forest-floor and aboveground plant combustion by fire may produce significant losses of N and P compared with those available in mineral soil, whereas soil exchangeable K is large enough to replace these losses. Belowground nutrient reserves may account for the quick recovery of the Quercus coccifera aboveground biomass although successive fires could deplete these reserves and produce a loss of biomass and productivity in this species.
40926914|Pollination failure represents one stage at which sexual reproduction of plants may be limited. It is therefore important to understand the pollination mechanism of the plant and how this may be affected by plant and population characteristics. This study examined the reproductive biology of a scarce montane willow species, Salix arbuscula, as part of a programme to determine ecological strategies for the conservation of montane willow scrub, an endangered habitat in the UK. The relative importance of insect and wind pollination, and the role of plant characteristics including plant size, catkin length, number of flowers and local density in determining reproductive success (number of fruit set) were investigated in three populations. Insect exclosures were used to determine the pollination mechanism. Our results suggest that S. arbuscula is predominantly insectpollinated. In naturally pollinated plants, catkins with a higher proportion of ripe fruit were longer. Plants with more than two males in the local area and unbrowsed plants had a higher proportion of ripe fruit per catkin. The extent of wind pollination was very low, but differed between populations. The success of wind-only pollination was dependent on the number of males nearby, indicating that local density is more important in this type of pollination. Pollination mechanism and fruit set varied between the three populations observed, demonstrating the importance of multi-site comparisons. The number of males in the surrounding area had a positive effect on fruit set in both types of pollination, suggesting that Allee effects are likely to be operating in this species.
40607010|We examined the influence of small-scale gap disturbances on stand development and tree species coexistence in an old-growth Fagus sylvaticaAbies alba forest in the Dinaric Mountains of BosniaHerzegovina. The structure and composition of tree regeneration in gaps were compared to the forest as a whole, and the influence of gap size on the density and composition of regeneration was assessed. Transition probabilities were also calculated from gapfillers in different life stages to examine canopy replacement patterns. The structure and composition of tree regeneration were similar between gaps and the forest as a whole, and there was no relationship between overall regeneration density and gap size, indicating most individuals established prior to gap formation. Likewise, there was no strong evidence of gap-size partitioning for shade tolerant F. sylvatica and A. alba, although less tolerant Acer pseudoplatanus only recruited to taller life stages in larger gaps. Transition probabilities calculated from the seedling and sapling data suggest that most gaps will be captured by F. sylvatica, while probabilities based on pole-sized gapmakers indicate both A. alba and F. sylvatica will be maintained in the canopy. We suggest that gaps primarily play a role in reorganizing advance regeneration, and that coexistence of shade tolerant F. sylvatica and A. alba is more likely related to their differential ability to tolerate shaded understory conditions, particularly during larger life stages, rather than gap-size partitioning.
20050782|Zones of nutrient enrichment beneath shrubs, the so called 'fertile islands', are the result of a range of interacting physical and biotic concentrating mechanisms. These concentrating mechanisms lead to specific spatial patterns of soil properties across a landscape and it has been suggested that disruption of the normal patterns into more aggregated 'fertile islands' might be a useful index of desertification in semi-arid regions. The objective of this paper was to determine whether 'fertile islands' are as characteristic a feature of succulent deserts as they are of shrub dominated deserts. Results indicate that, even in a community dominated by succulent species fertile islands develop under extremely arid conditions and that the degree of development is dependent on plant dynamics. Long-lived species showed greater concentration effects. However, the patterns of nutrient accretion in islands are very different to shrub invaded grasslands in North America. In particular nitrogen accretion dominated the 'fertile islands' in Namaqualand, and we suggest that these islands are more ephemeral than carbon and phosphorus dominated islands reported for other systems. These more dynamic islands are a consequence of rapid community dynamics since the Namaqualand region is characterised by many short-lived perennials which turnover generations very rapidly in response to environmental conditions. Using the development of 'fertile islands' to assess desertification as applied elsewhere might be inappropriate in Namaqualand because of the different patterns of community dynamics underlying the formation and characteristics of these islands.
40305642|Patch dynamics, tree injury and mortality, and coarse woody detritus were quantified to examine the ecological impacts of Hurricane Fran on an oakhickory-pine forest near Chapel Hill, NC. Data from long-term vegetation plots (1990-1997) and aerial photographs (1998) indicated that this 1996 storm caused patchy disturbance of intermediate severity (10-50% tree mortality; Woods, J Ecol 92: 464-476, 2004). The area in large disturbance patches (> 0.1 ha) increased from < 1% to approximately 4% of the forested landscape. Of the forty-two 0.1-ha plots that were studied, 23 were damaged by the storm and lost 1-66% of their original live basal area. Although the remaining 19 plots gained basal area (1-15% increase), across all 42 stands basal area decreased by 17% because of storm impacts. Overall mortality of trees > 10 cm dbh was 18%. The basal area of standing dead trees after the storm was 0.9 m 2 /ha, which was not substantially different from the original value of 0.7 m/ha. In contrast, the volume and mass of fallen dead trees after the storm (129 m/ha; 55 Mg/ha) were 6.1 and 7.9 times greater than the original levels (21 m/ha; 7 Mg/ha), respectively. Uprooting was the most frequent type of damage, and it increased with tree size. However, two other forms of injury, severe canopy breakage and toppling by other trees, decreased with increasing tree size. Two dominant oak species of intermediate shade-tolerance suffered the largest losses in basal area (30-41% lost). Before the storm they comprised almost half of the total basal area in a forest of 13% shade-tolerant, 69% intermediate, and 18% shadeintolerant trees. Recovery is expected to differ with respect to vegetation (e. g., species composition and diversity) and ecosystem properties (e. g., biomass, detritus mass, and carbon balance). Vegetation may not revert to its former composition; however, reversion of biomass, detritus mass, and carbon balance to pre-storm conditions is projected to occur within a few decades. For example, the net change in ecosystem carbon balance may initially be negative from losses to decomposition, but it is expected to be positive within a decade after the storm. Repeated intermediate-disturbance events of this nature would likely have cumulative effects, particularly on vegetation properties.
20051021|This study explored the determinants of spread of four alien Pinus species and the ability of models to predict invasion dynamics in a complex fragmented landscape. The role of environmental factors, natural and anthropogenic disturbance in relation to invasion history was assessed for different stages in the invasion process using a Geographic Information System. Pines escaped from plantations over the past 30 years and spread into the natural semi-arid shrubland (renosterveld). The pattern of spread was compared with a simulated random distribution using two different techniques, a standard logistic regression, and a new recursive modelling approach (Formal Inference-based Recursive Modelling; FIRM). FIRM analysis improved the accuracy of predictions and revealed interactive effects of variables hidden by the logistic regression analysis. More than 80% of isolated pine individuals were found in 20% of the habitat classified as suitable by the models. Soil pH was the most important predictor for the distribution of isolated trees, whereas the establishment of dense pine stands was largely determined by fire history. Differences in invasive behaviour could be explained by species attributes such as limited dispersal for P. canariensis, and better drought-tolerance for P. halepensis. Sixty-five percent of the current pine distribution was accurately predicted by the spatial distribution of the first trees to have invaded. Such models could be used to predict potential spread of invasive plants and gain a better understanding of the main factors driving the invasion process. However, the spread of invasive species in fragmented landscapes, strongly modified by human activities, is very complicated, and the spread remains difficult to predict in the long term. The dynamics of invasion are discussed in relation to changes in land use and disturbance regime.
41412355|Dendroecological methods were combined with vegetation and soil mapping to study recolonisation of European larch (Larix decidua), silver birch (Betula pendula) and Norway spruce (Picea abies) on a recently formed rockslide cone (deposit of 30 x 10 m) in the Valais Alps (Switzerland). Tree density and tree height were predicted with regression models that we derived using an information-theoretic model selection approach. Results demonstrate that the deposits of the 1991 rockslide have been colonised relatively rapidly with larch (ecesis time 2 years), birch (5 years) and spruce (2 years). Most of the colonisation occurred 5-11 years following the rockslide. Clast size was the primary factor driving tree colonisation with the highest tree densities found on plots with mainly smaller (<30 cm) clast sizes. Tree height was affected by a combination of different influences, with tree age and tree density showing the most obvious effects. This study demonstrates how dendroecological methods allow reconstruction of spatio-temporal patterns of tree succession on rockslides, which may ultimately facilitate a more accurate dating of similar landforms of unknown age.
20050528|Canopy dieback in patches was discovered in an otherwise undisturbed very humid lower montane forest on a quartzitic sandstone plateau of the middle Caroni river basin, Venezuela. The patches vary in size from about 0.1 to 2 ha (50 to 700 upper story dead trees per ha). Preliminary inventories were carried out at 3 selected sites comparing 4 dieback patches (M) with adjacent not affected (V) forests. In the M plots, 40 to 61% of all trees with dbh  10 cm were dead. They consisted mostly (81-100%) of the endemic tree species Terminalia quintalata of the upper story (dbh &gt 20 to 60 cm, height up to 30 m), which is much sparser in the V stands. Data on stand structure and species composition are presented. They seem to indicate a spatial variation in the density of Terminalia quintalata, but also of other dominant species, and reproductive problems of Terminalia, which is hardly present in the diameter classes below 10 cm dbh. V and M stands grow on similar soils with a perched high water table. They are practically free of clay and rich in humus. The exchange complex is dominated by H. Low pH and dilution of base cations represent the main chemical stress factors. Different concepts of the dieback process are discussed, including cyclic reproductive patterns, nutrient sequestering and drought frequency.
20051241|Positive interactions between Juniperus virginiana and woody seedlings may influence trends in primary succession along the Atlantic Coast of eastern North America. Woody species richness was greater beneath isolated J. virginiana trees than in more exposed, grass-covered dune sites on a Virginia, USA barrier island. Fleshy fruited seeds were more abundant in the seed bank beneath J. virginiana than in adjacent exposed sites, suggesting that J. virginiana may be utilized by passerine birds. Photosynthetically active radiation was reduced below J. virginiana, and soil temperature fluctuations were moderated during the growing season. In addition, moisture content, organic matter, and chlorides were higher for soils under J. virginiana than in exposed sites. For planted Prunus serotina and Sassafras albidum seedlings, mortality was lower beneath J. virginiana as compared with the exposed treatment; however, no S. albidum seedlings survived beyond mid-August. The effect of J. virginiana on the recruitment and distribution of mid-successional woody seedlings in coastal environments may be passive, through the non-random distribution of fleshy seeds by perching birds, or active, through increased seedling survival due to J. virginiana initiated alterations in microclimate and edaphic factors.
23362494|Secondary succession after land abandonment in tropical dry forests has been suggested to be favoured by the facilitation effects for seedling establishment exerted by pioneer trees isolated in these savannah-like landscapes. However, it has also been noticed that these pioneer species may sometimes have an encroaching effect and arrest succession for several decades. We investigated in this study whether allelopathy can play a role in limiting seedling establishment of co-occurring tree species under the canopy of Acacia pennatula by means of lab bioassays and field experiments in north-west Nicaragua. Leaf extracts of A. pennatula did not affect seed germination but reduced the general growth and especially the development of the root compartment in seedlings, shifting their biomass allocation model to a reduced root/shoot ratio. Survival of planted seedlings under the canopy of A. pennatula was about 2030% lower than outside, and this reduction was particularly pronounced as the dry season progressed, despite the milder conditions (e.g. higher soil moisture) being experienced in the inner positions under the canopy. Altogether, our results suggest that, rather than facilitating, A. pennatula may inhibit the establishment of seedlings under its canopy probably by means of an allelopathic interference in the development of the root system with critical negative consequences for young seedlings in terms of overcoming the dry season. This article warns about overemphasizing the nucleation effect that remnant and isolated trees may have to facilitate secondary succession in these highly disturbed savannah-like tropical dry forests.
41508693|Effects of avian gut-passage on seed germination are important to assess the effectiveness of frugivores in woodland regeneration, particularly in biodiversity hotspots that have a high incidence of avian frugivory. We examined the effect of avian gut-passage on seed germination in contrast to seeds that remain uneaten in five shrub species in Mediterranean central Chile and sought to determine the physiological mechanism(s) by which seed germinability is modified. Germination assays were conducted in a glasshouse for five common shrub species of the sub-Andean matorral: Azara dentata (Flacourtiaceae), Schinus polygamus and Schinus molle (Anacardiaceae), Cestrum parqui (Solanaceae), and Maytenus boaria (Celastraceae). We estimated germinability (final percent germination), dormancy length (time from sowing to first germination), mean length of dormancy of all germinated seeds, and contrasted germination rates of defecated versus manually extracted and pulp-enclosed seeds. Avian gutpassage increased seed germinability in four of the five shrub species studiedprimarily through deinhibition via pulp removal. Minimum dormancy length was not modified by avian gut-passage for A. dentata, but was significantly shorter for S. molle and C. parqui. Mean dormancy length was significantly shorter in gut-passed seeds of A. dentata, S. molle and M. boaria. Avian gutpassage greatly enhanced the seed germination rates of three species, A. dentata, S. molle and C. parqui. We conclude that the positive effects of birds on seed germination facilitate the regeneration of sub-Andean shrublands, and that bird declines due to landscape change may impair recovery rates of successional or restored areas due to dispersal limitation.
41412358|It has long been known that -and  diversity are driven by different ecological processes. Recently, several theoretical papers have suggested that -diversity can be expressed in many different ways, and that these measures might have different meanings and behaviours. In terms of ecological understanding, it is important to test how these diversity measures behave in different settings, yet this has been rarely attempted. We investigated this question using forest openings in the Trascu Mountains, Romania, which contain species from grasslands of high nature value. The sampling was conducted in 40 openings, using edge-to-interior transects composed of 1-m plots (-diversity), from which we calculated five -diversity measures at transect level. As predictor variables, we used canopy openness (from hemispherical photos), tree litter cover, heat load index, altitude, and bedrock type for -diversity, and the means and ranges of these for -diversity. Generalized linear mixed models showed that -diversity was mostly explained by the first two variables. Amongst the -diversity measures, the classical additive and multiplicative measures differed, the latter being similar to the Srensen-based multiple-site dissimilarity. None of the predictors explained the slope of distance decay or Simpsonbased multiple-site dissimilarity, except when considering ecological subsets of the species. We discuss the possible ecological processes underlying the different results, and the implication of our findings for nature conservation in the region. In conclusion, we support the joint application of different measures of -and -diversity, as long as their particular properties are taken into account.
20051048|The main objective of this investigation was to study the pollination characteristics of two types of Amazonian rain forest at plant community level. Seasonally inundated forest was compared with upland (tierra firme) forest. The study focused on plant species in the canopy. The pollination spectra show that in both forests most canopy trees and lianas are pollinated by small bees, large bees, butterflies or by small, relatively unspecialized insects. In the upland forest small bees are the most important pollinators (32% of all species of trees and lianas are pollinated by them), whereas large bees are predominant in the floodplain (22%). Other pollinators, like hummingbirds, bats, moths, and beetles are less common (&lt 10%), but always somewhat more important in the flood plain than in the upland forest. Bees are the most common pollinators of epiphytes. In the flood plain forest, flies are also important as epiphyte pollinators (19%), whereas in the upland forest hummingbirds pollinate more epiphytes. The phenological patterns are quite similar in both the upland and the flood plain. We found a peak in flowering in the transition period between the wet and the dry season. Flowering activity was lowest during the wet season. Differentiation in sexual systems was correlated with life form. Dioecy and monoecy were found mostly among tree species. Most species of all life forms though were hermaphroditic. No difference with respect to the relative importance of sexual systems was found between the two forest types.
40305716|A vegetation survey was carried out in a relatively intact Atlantic blanket bog in Southwest Ireland to study the vegetation patterns in relation to environmental variation, and to quantify the effect of artificial and natural borders on compositional variation. The data were analysed using canonical correspondence analysis. In terms of both vegetation and water chemistry, the study site can be categorized as typical of Atlantic blanket bogs in the maritime regions of North-western Europe. The distribution of plant species was explained mainly by depth of the water table. The distribution of bryophytes was secondarily explained by the pH of the bog water, while the distribution of vascular plants was secondarily explained by concentrations of ammonia. The vegetation distribution exhibited little variation between the central sector of the peatland and its disturbed edges (hill-grazing and restoration areas), but a substantial variation was observed between the area along a natural edge (stream) and the areas close to the other peatland borders or centre. Similarly, the internal variation within each sector (centre, hillgrazing edge and restoration area edge) was small, but substantial vegetation variation was observed within the area located along the stream. The area along the stream was associated with relatively deep water table, shallow peat depth, high water colour, pH and NH concentrations, and low CF concentrations in the bog water. Our results suggest the existence of strong centre-natural margin gradients, as in raised bogs, and indicate that human or animal disturbance do not give rise to the marked transition zones that often characterize natural margins of mire systems. This indicates that even small areas and remnants of Atlantic blanket bogs are worthy of conservation and that their conservation value would benefit from the inclusion of sectors close to the natural peatland borders, which would increase the plant biodiversity of the conserved area.
20051151|Contrasted and periodic vegetation patterns are observed throughout the semi-arid tropics. The relation between individual species and the 'overall' pattern has been investigated from a study site in North West Burkina Faso (West Africa), which displayed periodic woody patterns with varying levels of contrast and isotropy. The woody vegetation was described from two field plots (320 m by 320 m), within which woody individuals were either mapped or counted (in quadrats of 10 m by 10 m). A banded pattern of high intensity (tiger bush on hard sandstone, plot PTG) was compared with a less precise pattern on more favourable edaphic conditions (plot PSP). The periodic nature of the vegetation under study was directly addressed by interpreting spatial auto- and cross-covariance functions through spectra of spatial frequencies (spectral analysis). The overall pattern of vegetation was analysed from digitised aerial photographs, while distributions of individual species were characterised from field data. In both plots, the densest species (Combretum micranthum G. Don), though only dominant in PTG, had a spatial distribution that closely matched the overall pattern. Pterocarpus lucens Lepr was co-dominant in both plots although fairly independent on the periodic pattern. Several species displayed a positive link with the periodic pattern that was quite loose in PSP and tighter in PTG. This tighter link was concomitant with lower densities for most species. Indeed, only C. micranthum clearly benefited from the high intensity pattern with a density seven times higher in PTG than in PSP. Consequently, species richness and diversity were lower in PTG. A single species proved hence of overwhelming importance in accounting for the periodic pattern and its persistence through time. Spatial distributions of other species pointed rather towards individualistic responses to the opportunity/constraint provided by the periodic pattern in presence of different levels of edaphic and climatic stress.
20146683| This study examined the photosynthetic and growth performances of potted plants of Cistus albidus L. and Quercus ilex L. submitted either to natural Mediterranean winter conditions or to mild greenhouse conditions. Plants grown outdoors exhibited lower light and CO-saturated CO assimilation rates (
20146639| Whereas leaf gas exchange properties are important to assess carbon and water fluxes in ecosystems worldwide, information of this type is scarce for savanna species. In this study, gas exchange characteristics of 2 C grass species (Andropogon canaliculatus and Hyparrhenia diplandra) and 2 C tree species (Crossopteryx febrifuga and Cussonia arborea) from the West-African savanna of Lamto (Ivory Coast) were investigated in the field. Measurements were done in order to provide data to allow the parameterization of biochemically-based models of photosynthesis (for C and C plant metabolic types) and stomatal conductance; and to compare gas exchange characteristics of coexisting species. No systematic difference was found between grass and tree species for reference stomatal conductance, under standard environmental conditions, or stomatal response to incident light or vapour pressure deficit at leaf surface. Conversely, grass species displayed higher water (1.5-2 fold) and nitrogen (2-5 fold) photosynthetic use efficiencies (WUE and NUE, ratio of net photosynthesis to transpiration and leaf nitrogen, respectively). These contrasts were attributed to the CO concentrating mechanism of C plants. When looking within plant life forms, no important difference was found between grass species. However, significant contrasts were found between tree species, Cussonia showing higher NUE and reference stomatal conductance than Crossopteryx. These results stress the need to account for functional diversity when estimating ecosystem carbon and water fluxes. In particular, our results suggest that the tree/grass ratio, and also the composition of the tree layer, could strongly affect WUE and NUE at the ecosystem scale in West African savannas. 
20146487|Facilitation is predicted to occur on coastal sand dunes as these ecosystems have the harsh physical conditions common during primary succession. In a tropical dune system on the Gulf of Mexico the spatial patterns of plant distribution were analyzed and the hypothesis that facilitation is the responsible mechanism was tested by monitoring changes in the micro-environment and performing a seedling planting experiment under natural conditions. Densities of seedlings and adults of late colonizer grasses were two to six times greater beneath the early colonizer shrub, Chamaecrista chamaecristoides, than in the exposed areas. Temperatures on the sand surface, wind speed and sand accretion were significantly reduced by the shade of Chamaecrista. Only phosphate contents during the dry season were significantly higher in sand in the shade than in exposed sand. In the field experiment, successful establishment of seedlings of two late colonizer grasses (Trachypogon plumosus and Schizachyrium scoparium) was low but was concentrated exclusively beneath the shrubs. The introduced plants were reproductive one year after onset of the experiment and remained vigorous after three years. The observed spatial aggregation among the target species may be a result of improved conditions in the shade of the shrub, which facilitated the survival and establishment of late colonizers. On top of the environmental amelioration, protection from recurrent disturbances such as substrate mobility is an additional beneficial effect of the shrub.
20146611|This study investigates the effect of microhabitat and seed burial on the main demographic processes operating during the early recruitment of Quercus ilex, such as postdispersal seed predation, seed germination, and seedling emergence, survival and growth. The effect of burial was positive over all the processes analysed in this study, since predation rate was lower (63.6% vs. 88%), whereas germination (53.1% vs. 21.8%) and emergence (32.0% vs. 5.5%) were higher for buried acorns. The quality of some microhabitats remained similar throughout the stages and processes studied. Thus, afforestation provided especially suitable microhabitats for oak establishment, since seed predation was lower, while germination, emergence and seedling survival were higher, than in any other microhabitat. By contrast, the quality of some microhabitats, such as open sites and Holm oaks, differed between recruitment stages. Acorns in open sites escaped predation and germinated easily, but most seedlings died due to summer drought. Similarly, although acorns under Holm oaks can germinate and survive drought, they cannot survive to postdispersal predators. This uncoupling results in a post-dispersal change in the spatial distribution of Q. ilex recruits. Furthermore, there were significant interactions between burial and microhabitat for some demographic processes. The recruitment was in afforestations high irrespective of burial, suggesting that burial is not as beneficial in high-quality habitats as it is in lower-quality ones. An accurate understanding of plant recruitment requires the determination not only of the direct effects of limiting factors but also the potential interactions occurring between them.
40540365|Plant communities on pastures adapt to varying frequencies and severities of defoliation through mechanisms capable of ensuring their longevity and photosynthetic efficiency. The objective of this experiment was to evaluate tiller population density, demographic patterns of tillering and population stability of palisadegrass swards subjected to four grazing intensities. Treatments corresponded to four sward steady state conditions (sward heights of 10, 20, 30 and 40 cm) generated by continuous stocking. Measurements of tiller population density and population dynamics were performed at 4 week intervals and the results were used to calculate tiller appearance, death and survival rates. Tiller appearance and death rate were used to calculate sward stability index. The results indicate that keeping swards low (10 cm or lower) may be prejudicial to persistency and productivity of palisadegrass. The results also indicate that a low tiller population alone should not be considered as an indicator of loss of productive potential and of reduced plant persistency, since swards may be stable even with low population of tillers.
23362477|Global climate change will likely result in the reduction of water levels in intermountain wetlands and ponds, and the vegetation communities associated with these wetlands are an important forage source for livestock. Lowered water levels will not only constrict wetland plant communities, it will potentially change aquatic and soil salt concentrations. Such an increase in salinity can reduce plant growth and potentially affect competitive interactions between plants. A greenhouse experiment examined the effects of salinity and competition on the growth of two wet meadow grass species, Poa pratensis (a glycophyte) and Puccinellia nuttalliana (a halophyte). The following hypotheses based on published data were tested: (1) Biomass of both species will decrease with increasing concentration of salt; (2) root:shoot (R:S) ratio of P. pratensis will decrease with increasing salt concentration while R:S ratio of P. pratensis and P. nuttalliana will increase with clipping; (3) competitive importance will decrease for P. pratensis and P. nuttalliana with increasing salt concentration because salt induces a stress response and competitive importance is reduced in stressed environments. A factorial design included 3 plant treatments (P. nuttalliana alone, P. pratentsis alone, P. nuttalliana + P. pratensis)  4 salinity rates (control; 5, 10, 15 g/L NaCl)  2 clipping intensities (plants clipped or not clipped) for a total of 24 combinations replicated 6 times over a period of 90 days. We found a reduction in dry biomass as salinity increased, and this effect was greatest for P. pratensis. (1.94 g (SE 0.13) at 0 g/L NaCl to 0.22 g (SE 0.11) at 15 g/L NaCl). The R:S ratio of P. pratensis was reduced by salinity, but not for P. nuttalliana. Competitive importance of both species was reduced by clipping and by salinity, but the effect was greater and more consistent for P. pratensis. We conclude that salt concentration reduces plant growth and the effect of competition.
40305485|Although free-roaming equids occur on all of the world's continents except Antarctica, very few studies (and none in the Great Basin, USA) have either investigated their grazing effects on vegetation at more than one spatial scale or compared characteristics of areas from which grazing has been removed to those of currently grazed areas. We compared characteristics of vegetation at 19 sites in nine mountain ranges of the western Great Basin; sites were either grazed by feral horses (Equus caballus) or had had horses removed for the last 10-14 years. We selected horse-occupied and horseremoved sites with similar aspect, slope, fire history, grazing pressure by cattle (minimal to none), and dominant vegetation (Artemisia tridentata). During 1997 and 1998, line-intercept transects randomly located within sites revealed that horse-removed sites exhibited 1.1-1.9 times greater shrub cover, 1.2-1.5 times greater total plant cover, 2-12 species greater plant species richness, and 1.9-2.9 times greater cover and 1.1-2A times greater frequency of native grasses than did horse-occupied sites. In contrast, sites with horses tended to have more grazingresistant forbs and exotic plants. Direction and magnitude of landscape-scale results were corroborated by smaller-scale comparisons within horseoccupied sites of horse-trail transects and (randomly located) transects that characterized overall site conditions. Information-theoretic analyses that incorporated various subsets of abiotic variables suggested that presence of horses was generally a strong determinant of those vegetation-related variables that differed significantly between treatments, especially frequency and cover of grasses, but also species richness and shrub cover and frequency. In contrast, abiotic variables such as precipitation, site elevation, and soil erodibility best predicted characteristics such as forb cover, shrub frequency, and continuity of the shrub canopy. We found species richness of plants monotonically decreased across sites as grazing disturbance increased, suggesting that either the bell-shaped diversity-disturbance curve of the intermediate-disturbance hypothesis does not apply in this system or that most sites are already all on the greater-disturbance slope of the curve. In our study, numerous vegetation properties of less-grazed areas and sites differed notably from horse-grazed sites at local and landscape scales during a wetter and an average-precipitation year.
20146585| The increasing tropospheric ozone (O) concentration constitutes a potential threat to nature. Plants are known to react to O, but knowledge of the sensitivity and type of responses of different species and plant communities is widely lacking. This review focuses on the ecological effects of O on northern wild field layer plant species. Most of the 65 species examined thus far have proven to be quite tolerant of O. Visible symptoms were observed in 54% of the 61 species studied, and growth reduction in 31% of the 55 species studied for growth. There were no signs to suggest that certain families or vegetation types are more sensitive or tolerant than others. There were, however, clear differences in sensitivity between the different species. It seems that forbs are usually more sensitive than grasses. It should be kept in mind, however, that we still lack knowledge on the responses of many common and abundant key species. The long-term effects are also far from clear. Hardly any field examinations have been carried out on the effects of O on plant communities. 
41686804|To clarify the differential responses of lianas and vines to rainfall, we investigated the distribution and abundance of climbers along the rainfall gradient in the Qinling Mountains of China. In our study, 28 climbing species were investigated across a rainfall gradient of 500-1,200 mm. Results indicated that most lianas and vines show restricted distribution along the rainfall gradient, which imply their adaptation to different water availabilities. A significant increase in the percentage of the total climbing species with rainfall was observed. The abundance and richness of lianas increased significantly with rainfall, whereas the vines remained constant. This difference implies that lianas have a higher sensitivity to water availability than vines. During drought, lianas may be vulnerable because of the drought-induced embolism, whereas vines are drought-resistant because of their shorter life spans and safer nutrient storage. Further research on the ecophysiological differences between lianas and vines is needed to provide a mechanistic explanation for the patterns described here.
20050609|In red alder (Alnus rubra Bong.) the nitrogen fixing actinomycete Frankia can be divided into strains which form spores (sp+) within nodules and those that do not. Red alder nodules were collect from 42 sites in southwestern British Columbia and their spore type was determined. Sp+ nodules were found in 18 of the sites, where their proportion ranged from 4 to 93%. The distribution of sites with sp+ nodules was clumped, with significant autocorrelation at the 0-10 km interval. No sp+ nodules were found in any of the eight stands in the submaritime region, indicating a possible continentality effect on spore type distribution. There was a significant positive association between the presence of Rubus spectabilis and the presence sp+ nodules. Stand and soil chemical variables were generally poor predictors of the proportion of sp+ nodules, although total soil nitrogen and exchangeable phosphorus accounted for 36.4 and 28.5% respectively, of the variation in the proportion of sp+ nodules on sites where they were present. There was also a small but significant negative relation between soil pH and the proportion of sp+ nodules and young stands generally did not have any sp+ nodules.
24552029|The grass layer of African savannas consists of two main vegetation types: grazing lawns, dominated by short, mostly clonally reproducing grasses, and bunch grasslands, dominated by tall bunch grasses. This patchy distribution of vegetation types is mostly created by large herbivores, which selectively feed on the more nutritious lawn grass species. Besides grazing, herbivores trample the soil, thereby causing soil compaction, with possible consequences for water infiltration. This raises two questions: (i) is water more limiting in grazing lawns than in bunch grasslands and (ii) are lawn grasses more drought tolerant than bunch grasses? To study these questions, we compared drought conditions in both lawn and bunch grasslands in a South African savanna. Additionally, in a climate room, we compared the performance of three lawn and three bunch grass species under a control and a water limitation treatment. Thirdly, we investigated whether there are differences between lawn and bunch grasses in traits related to drought tolerance. Our results show that despite large differences in water availability in the field, lawn and bunch grasses did not differ in their growth response to drought. Drought reduced growth of both growth forms equally. However, we found strong intrinsic trait differences between growth forms, with lawn grasses having higher specific root length and relative growth rate and bunch grasses having a higher root:shoot ratio. These results suggest that after drought-induced plant death, lawn grasses might be more capable of recolonizing patches of bare soil.
23267385|Tillandsia recurvata is an epiphytic bromeliad with a wide distribution in the Americas; however, little is known about the development of its post-seminal adaptations for survival in epiphytic environments. The purpose of this study was to define the temperature and water requirements for the germination of T. recurvata seeds. The absence of radicle emergence in T. recurvata seeds resulted in 2 stages of germination: swollen with broken seed coat (stage-1) and chlorophyllic embryos (stage-2). The effects of partial or discontinuous hydration on germinated seed survival were also assessed. The seeds were collected in a semi-arid shrubland of Mexico City. We explored: (1) whether water vapour can provide a sufficient water source for germination; (2) the temperature required for germination stage-1 and the optimal and critical osmotic potentials for germination in both germination stages; (3) the effect of seed incubation at different osmotic potentials that undergo subsequent dehydration on their survival in stage-2; and (4) the loss of dehydration tolerance during early post-seminal development. In addition, an image of T. recurvata seed anatomy was obtained to illustrate its structures. Germination stage-1 of T. recurvata seeds is rather similar across the tested temperature range. The seeds required to be in contact with liquid water to germinate. The interval of osmotic potential facilitating both germination stages was from 0 to -0.6 MPa. Although germinated seeds displayed dehydration tolerance, this tolerance decreased in germination stage-2. The osmotic potential during germination affected the tolerance of the chlorophyllic embryos (stage-2) to subsequent dehydration.
40305730|To clarify seedbank developmental pattern and its determinants, we examined relationships between seedbank, standing vegetation, and litter in a post-mined peatland on Sarobetsu Mire, northern Japan. In late fall 2006 and early summer 2007, peat was sampled from four vegetation types, and litter was also sampled from two of the four vegetations where thick litter was accumulated. Seed germination tests were performed by the samples in a glasshouse. The results were compared between the standing vegetation and litter accumulation. Seed density and species richness in seedbank gradually increased with increasing vegetation cover. Seeds in surface layer germinated more in fall than in summer. In vegetation with thick litter, small seeds, such as Drosera rotundifolia and Gentiana triflora, germinated more from peat than from litter in summer, probably due to the downward movement. Seed density in litter decreased from fall to the next summer. Moliniopsis japonica and Rhynchospora alba developed shortterm persistent seedbank, whereas D. rotundifolia and G. triflora preserved long-term persistent seedbank in peat covered with thick litter. Seedbank development follows the development of the standing vegetation with litter. Litter derived from the standing vegetation is a prime determinant on the seedbank composition and development, by acting as seed trap and keeping seed dormancy.
20051342|In many fire-prone habitats around the world, natural fire regimes have shaped the evolution of the associated flora. Critical life history stages are often linked to fire in species that occur in these fire-prone habitats but many species are unstudied. We investigated seedling emergence patterns over time, after several fires in south-eastern Australia, for three obligate seeders in the Genus Leucopogon (Family Epacridaceae): L. setiger, L. esquamatus and L. exolasius. Fixed quadrats were monitored for 12 to 30 months for newly emerged seedlings, both after fire and in unburnt L. exolasius and L. esquamatus habitats. There was a flush of seedling emergence in the first year after fire for all three Leucopogon species, with smaller pulses recorded in subsequent years. Time elapsed between fire and the onset of emergence differed between fires, but not between Leucopogon species. Whatever the timing of the fire, seedling emergence was restricted to the late autumn and winter periods, coinciding with emergence in unburnt habitat. This contrasts with patterns of emergence previously reported for other taxa, and also in this study, where emergence of the Leucopogon species after fire was delayed compared with co-occurring species in other genera. Our results suggest that seasonal factors are important to the germination ecology of these species and that combinations of fire-related and seasonal factors are necessary to maximise germination. Rainfall has a non-seasonal pattern in the study region and seasonal emergence post-fire has not previously been recorded. The magnitude of delay to emergence of species with seasonal emergence patterns will be determined by the season of fire but not by a seasonal pattern of rainfall in the post-fire year. A shift of the peak fire season could increase this delay, possibly affecting plant population recovery.
20146699|We studied competitive interactions among three species (Corynephorus canescens, Hieracium pilosella and Carex arenaria) of different early successional stages on sand dunes. Our study focused on the influence of competition and water availability on biomass allocation patterns and the plasticity of root responses. Plants were grown for one growing season in a simple additive (target-neighbour) design under low or ambient water supply. Overall competition intensity (e.g., above- and below-ground), as well as root competition alone, were compared using control plants grown without competitors. Our results show high competition intensity leading to an average target plant biomass reduction of 56% relative to controls. Competition was mostly below-ground. With increasing water availability, the competitive effect of H. pilosella on both of the other species decreased significantly. All other tested species combinations were not influenced by water availability. Soil moisture seemed to be a key factor determining the plasticity of root responses. Under limited water availability, strong competitors caused a significant decrease of response ratio (lnRR) based on root: shoot ratios for H. pilosella and C. arenaria and a decrease in lnRR based on specific root length (SRL) for C. arenaria. Under sufficient water supply, however, there was no significant effect of competition on root: shoot ratios for any of the species and only C. arenaria in competition with C. canescens showed a lower lnRR based on SRL. These water-related, species-specific changes of root morphology and allocation patterns may point to an adaptive response to competition.
20146783|In the twining vine Ipomoea purpurea we experimentally assessed the effect of support availability (a vertical stake), maternal genotype (family), and maternal environment (presence or absence of support in mother plants) on morphological traits, accounting for differences in initial seed size. While there was no effect of the maternal environment on seed size at the family level, families within each maternal environment did differ in seed size. Seeds from families of supported mothers showed higher germination than those from families of unsupported mothers. The maternal environment did not influence shoot traits but affected phenotypic plasticity in the number of leaves in response to support. Thus, whereas progeny plants from unsupported mothers did not show a response to support availability in the number of leaves, progeny from supported mother plants had a greater number of leaves once support was provided. The maternal genotype only affected the number of leaves.
41508765|We used a controlled experiment to investigate how disturbance scale (canopy gap area) and herbivory influence post-disturbance plant community dynamics. Twenty canopy gaps were installed in a temperate hemlock-hardwood forest during the winter of 2002-2003: seven small gaps (50-150 m), seven medium gaps (151-250 m), and six large gaps (251-50 m). Within each gap, we established 4-12 sample plots (depending on gap size); 1-3 of which were enclosed with wire mesh white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) exclosures in 2005. Gaps were revisited and intensively sampled in 2007. After five growing seasons, ground-layer plant communities in non-exclosed plots were more similar compositionally than exclosure plots. Non-exclosed plots in small and medium gaps were more similar to nonexclosed plots in large gaps than they were to exclosed plots in their respective gap size class. Shade-tolerant forbs and trees were less common outside exclosures, while generalist species associated with higher understory light levels and exotics were more prevalent outside exclosures. Our results suggest that even in forests with relatively low deer densities (6.5-9.3 deer km), white-tailed deer herbivory may influence the developmental trajectory of post-disturbance plant communities and be a mechanism for decreasing -diversity along environmental gradients.
20146590|Plant community dynamics in Mediterranean basin ecosystems are mainly driven by an alternation of episodes of human intervention and land abandonment. As a result, a mosaic of plant communities has evolved following different stages of degradation and regeneration. Some authors has relate secondary succession to abandoned culture lands and regeneration to natural systems with abandonment of livestock or forestry exploitation. In this paper, the dynamics of shrublands in mid-mountain areas in the South of Spain after disturbance and land abandonment has been studied. The plant cover and 13 environmental variables of 137 selected sites on the Grazalema mountains was analysed to determine the vegetation pattern in relation to environmental factors and the succession types, either regenerative or secondary succession. The results show that today the Grazalema mountains have a heterogeneous vegetation pattern. Besides physical factors such as altitude or soil pH, human disturbance has modulated current vegetation patterns and dynamics. Two main types of vegetation dynamics can be distinguished in the study area. In areas affected by cutting, regeneration results in rich and dense shrub land, with resprouters as dominant species. In areas affected by recurrent wildfires or agriculture, secondary succession became dominant, resulting in less diverse shrubland, due to the dominance of seeders and decrease in resprouter species richness and cover.
20050666|A two-level multifactor experimental approach was used to compare seed germination and seedling performance of two Mediterranean tree species: the early successional Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Mill.) and the late successional holm oak (Quercus ilex L.). In a first experiment germination rate was evaluated under the combined effects of shade, nitrogen availability, and pine or holm oak leaf litter. In a second experiment we tested for the effects of shade, nutrient availability, and litter type on seedling survival, growth and biomass allocation. Holm oak showed higher germination rates under shaded than under unshaded conditions, while Aleppo pine showed no differences between shaded and unshaded conditions. Nitrogen availability and litter type had no significant effect on germination of either species. Both species showed increased RGR, but also higher mortality rates, when grown in an enriched nutrient environment. While Aleppo pine showed no differences in RGR and mortality rate under different shading levels, RGR decreased and mortality increased for holm oak in full light. Increased radiation decreased LAR, SLA and height:diameter ratio, and increased RWR and R/S in both species, although Aleppo pine showed more pronounced changes. Unlike Aleppo pine, holm oak responded to increased nutrient availability by decreasing R/S and increasing LAR. From these results, no seed-seedling conflicts were found in either species, but a trade-off does seem to exist for holm oak between biomass allocation traits deployed in response to increased nutrient availability and radiation. Aleppo pine outperformed holm oak under most environmental conditions tested and showed a wider regeneration niche.
20146476|Laguna Grande, Monagas State, Venezuela, is a shallow, V-shaped lake created by the confluence of two rivers. Montrichardia arborescens (L.) Schott. dominated wetlands cover most of the north and south arms and the littoral zone of the main body of the lake. The vegetation and seed banks of Montrichardia wetland sites were sampled in the north arm, south arm and main body five times from the end of the dry season in 1991 to beginning of the rainy season in 1992. The composition of the vegetation was similar and changed very little at all three sites during the course of the study. These wetlands had 53 species. Besides M. arborescens, other common species were Hamelia patens Jacq., Mikania cordifolia (L.) Wild., Sarcostemma clausum (Jacq.) Roem. & Schult., and Vitis caribaea L. In both the vegetation and seed banks, species richness was highest during the dry season. Altogether, the seed banks contained the seeds of 61 species of which 35 were also found in the vegetation. Seeds of three tree species were found in the seed banks that did not grow anywhere in the lake. In the seed bank, seeds of Cyperus odoratus L., Eleocharis interstincta (Vahl.) R&S, Ludwigia hyssopifolia (G. Don.) Excell, L. lithospermifolia (Mich.) Hara, Polygonum acuminatum H.B.K., and Sacciolepis striata (L.) Nash were the most abundant. Mean total seed density over the entire study was 6,500, 3,800, and 6,000 seeds/m in the north arm, south arm, and main basin, respectively. Seed production and dispersal occur primarily during the dry season, and the highest seed densities at all sites were found in the dry season when there was no or little standing water. The lowest seed densities at all sites were found during the rainy season during which seed densities declined over 80% at the north and south arm sites. In the main body of the lake, however, seed densities during the rainy season, although lower than during the dry season, actually increased significantly from 3,600 seeds/m in August 1991 to 6,000 seeds/m in October 1991. A significant decrease in seed density in either the north or south arms or both and a significant increase in the main body site during the rainy season occurred for 5 of the 8 species whose seeds were the most abundant, for all life-form guilds, except hydrophytes and for the entire seed bank. Secondary dispersal by water currents during the rainy season appears to be transporting seeds from the north and south arms into the seed bank of the main body of the lake.
20146351|The occurrence of disturbed sectors may be as important as microscale edge effects in tropical forests fragments. We considered the spatial distribution dynamics of life stages (youngs, immatures, and adults) of the acaulescent, endemic palm Attalea humilis Mart. ex. Spreng, in fire-prone fragments of the Brazilian Atlantic forest to investigate population responses to fragment size and fire occurrence. From 1996 to 1999, we recorded the number of individuals in different life stages in adjacent 1010-m plots in two perpendicular transects across each of three fragments of different sizes (1.6, 6.4, and 9.9 ha) in the Reserva Nacional de Poo das Antas, Southeastern Brazil. A fire burnt the fragments studied in 1997. Application of Morisita's Index showed clumping at most scales, with a marked reduction in clumping degree from youngs to adults, a pattern not influenced by fragment size. After fire, clumping degree increased temporarily among the youngs. No association between life stages was detected using presence/absence data. Palm density concentrated in the most disturbed transect arms, a pattern very little affected by fragment size or fire. No consistent relationship between palm density and distance from fragment edge was detected for any stage, fragment, or year. We hypothesize that short-distance seed dispersal by scatterhoarding rodents results in discrete, low-density clumps of youngs dissociated from reproductive plants. The spatial pattern of later stages is probably conditioned by the distribution of canopy gaps in the largest, more closed fragment. In the other fragments, the presence of large disturbed sectors promotes the formation of large, continuous stands of palms. This pattern would be reinforced by fire, which is known to be recurrent on already disturbed sites. For the species studied, large-scale variations in the forest structure (degraded vs. preserved fragment sectors) seems to be more important than microscale edge effects.
41508795|Native annual plant species constitute a large proportion of the plant diversity found in arid vegetation types within the southwestern United States; yet, little is known about controls on diversity patterns along natural and anthropogenic gradients. In this study we evaluated native species richness and exotic species cover across overlapping gradients of precipitation, wind, and N deposition in the Colorado Desert of southern California. Factors allowing native diversity to persist under high N deposition and high wind were also evaluated in a second, focused study at one end of the gradient. We found that gradients in precipitation, nitrogen deposition, and wind were the most important factors to native richness and exotic species cover across the landscape, while local heterogeneity in bare ground influenced richness and cover at the high deposition/windy, or highdisturbance, end of the gradient. Patterns of native diversity were evaluated across the gradients using non-metric multidimensional scaling, which showed diversity was split into two axes: one strongly correlated to precipitation and the other strongly correlated with disturbance factors. The disturbance factors were also positively associated with exotic grass and forb cover. In total, these results indicate that large-scale patterns in disturbance and exotic species cover negatively affect native annual plant species diversity but native species can also persist due to local heterogeneity.
20051063|Intraspecific and interspecific architectural patterns were studied for eight tree species of a Bornean rain forest. Trees 5-19 m tall in two 4-ha permanent sample plots in primary forest were selected, and three light descriptors and seven architectural traits for each tree were measured. Two general predictions were made: (1) Slow growing individuals (or short ones) encounter lower light, and have flatter crowns, fewer leaf layers, and thinner stems, than do fast growing individuals (or tall ones). (2) Species with higher shade-tolerance receive less light and have flatter crowns, fewer leaf layers, and thinner stems, than do species with lower shade-tolerance. Shade-tolerance is assumed to decrease with maximum growth rate, mortality rate, and adult sature of a species. Two light descriptors (crown position index and available space, but not canopy height) indicated higher light conditions for trees with more rapid growth, and for trees of greater height. Light levels were higher for species with high maximum growth rates and with greater adult stature. Most intraspecific architectural patterns conformed to the predictions: total leaf area and the number of leaf layers increased with increasing height and higher growth rates, and crown length/tree height ratio and stem slenderness respectively increased and decreased with growth rate. Yet, crown width/tree height ratio and relative crown length did not change with tree height, nor did they with previous growth. Slow growing (and short) trees may not have the reserves to invest in further horizontal crown growth, and to avoid leaf self-shading sufficiently within their relatively narrow crowns. Predictions on interspecific architectural patterns were not supported by the data. Species that were expected to be more shade-tolerant (lower maximum growth, lower mortality, and shorter stature) had deeper crowns, greater leaf areas, and more leaf layers, than did less shade-tolerant species. These patterns may be explained by lower loss rates of branches and leaves of the more shade-tolerant species. These species avoid leaf self-shading by distributing their leaves at the crown periphery. The role of lateral light appears to be more important than hitherto realized. The crown width/height ratio and height/dbh ratio were negatively correlated, both intraspecifically and interspecifically. It is suggested that trees co-ordinate their crown and stem growth so that they maintain their stability at small safety margins in the forest understorey.
40212993|Morphological plasticity could facilitate invasions of wetland plants into areas that experience increased durations of flooding and eutrophication. We explored canopy plasticity of Phalaris arundinacea, an aggressive invader of wetlands, as it differentially invaded wet prairie mesocosms under 3 flooding durations and 3 levels of nutrient addition. Phalaris grew as a sward with intermittent and early-season flooding but shifted to tussocks under constant flooding. These two growth forms differed by >20% in several canopy ratios. Clones that formed tussocks produced 45% more shoots per unit biomass (P = 0.007) and a 25% higher ratio of total shoot length to biomass (P = 0.04). Lighterweight shoots supported 33% fewer leaves and, consequently, had 35% less leaf area per shoot height (P < 0.002). Tussocks developed a continuous mat of adventitious roots, with root mats reaching 20.9  0.6 cm in diameter and 4.7  0.3 cm in height over two growing seasons. While forming tussocks, Phalaris tolerated longer durations of flooding and more than doubled its aboveground biomass. Invasions occurred rapidly, with Phalaris exceeding 75% canopy cover and accounting for 66% of the total aboveground biomass under constant flooding. Early-season flooding increased the lateral spread of individual shoots. High nutrient addition produced shoots that were 27% taller and 50% heavier (P < 0.02), with 81% more leaf area (P < 0.0003) than shoots that received no nutrients. Consequently, under early-season flooding with high nutrient additions, Phalaris was primed to invade, nearly doubling its proportion of the total aboveground biomass and exceeding 50% canopy cover during year two.
20050473|The study has examined the effect of water table depth (WTD) on production, biomass allocation, allometric relationships and transpiration rate in Urtica dioica. The essential importance of WTD for occurrence and spread of Urtica has been documented. Water table depths were: 60, 50, 40, 30, 20, and 10 cm below the soil surface. Thirty individuals of Urtica for each WTD, established from apical parts of young rhizomes, has been planted in containers and placed at WTD from the 8th May to the 24th July. The height of all individuals and the length and width of the largest leaf blade of each individual were measured after 42, 55 and 83 days. Transpiration rate was measured after 53 and 82 days. Above-ground biomass of all individuals was harvested on 24 of July and was separated into individual organs. Various biometric parameters were measured. Results showed that biomass, plant height, branching of stems and rhizomes and rhizomes length decreased in containers with a more shallow WTD. Particularly, allometric relationships between plant height and other characteristics such as basal diameter, length of longest branch and rhizome were affected by the water level. The biometric parameters were highly dependent on plant height. Transpiration strongly decreased with decreasing WTD. Therefore, the high water level in the soil suppresses growth of particular organs and water regime of Urtica plants. Generally, long-term high water content in the soils of floodplains, particularly during floods, limits rapidly, particularly vegetative spread of Urtica in the wetland habitats.
20146514| Intertidal wetlands provide examples of plants whose performance varies in response to resource (elevation) gradients, such as light, that are primarily determined by differences in tidal flooding. The spatial distribution (using Thiessen polygons to delineate neighborhoods) and performance (ramet height, weight, basal perimeter, photosynthetic area and inflorescence weight) of Scirpus americanus Pers. ramets were measured for three plots in each of the high and low elevation extremes of a resource gradient on an intertidal marsh of the Fraser River Delta, British Columbia, Canada. Most neighborhood polygons in both sites were six-sided and their frequency exceeded that expected for a Poisson distribution (i.e., complete spatial randomness). The frequency distributions of polygon shapes between low and high marsh sites were not significantly different but there were more five-sided polygons than expected in the high marsh. Two-way ANOVA for polygon area revealed significant differences between sites (p &lt 0.001, high marsh polygons  40% the area of those in the low marsh and with significantly less variability) and shape (p &lt 0.001, area increases with increasing number of neighbors) but the interaction effect was not significant (p = 0.10). There were no significant correlations (p &gt 0.05) between polygon area and ramet performance except for one high marsh plot that had significant (p &lt 0.01) positive correlations for polygon area and ramet photosynthetic surface area, weight and basal perimeter. Moran's I and Geary's C indicated that there is generally no spatial autocorrelation for polygon shape or ramet performance as only one plot in the high marsh had a significant (p = 0.009) negative autocorrelation for ramet height. Nearest neighbor analysis revealed a clumped distribution of ramets for two low marsh and one high marsh plot; ramets in the three remaining plots were distributed randomly. Ripley's K revealed that ramet distributions were evenly dispersed at spatial scales of  2 cm for one plot in the high marsh and at  12 cm for one plot in the low marsh. We conclude that the overall lack of an even distribution across this resource gradient may be due to a heterogeneous environment at a scale of centimeters, asynchronous shoot emergence throughout the growing season, and disturbance by grubbing geese. 
20050677|Most treeline populations in northeastern Canada are monospecific stands of black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] B.S.P.), a hardy, cold-tolerant species able to withstand harsh climatic conditions under different growth forms. In the forest tundra, black spruce thrives in protected areas and exhibits a normal arborescent growth form, but in exposed sites, upright stems are damaged above the snowpack by snow abrasion and wind. In this study, the development of damaged growth forms was examined in a moderately exposed habitat. Five developmental stages were identified and described using detailed stem analysis of 13 spruce trees. Four different types of damaged growth forms were identified according to variations in supra-nival (above snow) stem height and number. At the site scale, the age structure of supra-nival shoots, based on a larger sample of 256 stems, was unimodal, suggesting a synchronous development of the spruce stand in which 46% of the shoots were initiated during the 1960s and 1970s. Subfossil trunks on the ground were all depressed trees, indicating that the former vegetation was a krummholz, not a forest. This indicates the recent development of the small-tree stand above the snowpack, probably triggered by recent milder conditions associated with snowier winters in the last decades.
20050781|Seasonal carbon and water relations were compared among seven tree or shrub wash woodland species in the winter rainfall desert of the Richtersveld National Park, South Africa. Plants were generally aseasonal with respect to gas exchange, but responsive to rainfall events with respect to water relations and phenology. Relatively narrow annual ranges in potential evapotranspiration due to the maritime influence could explain why these plants respond more to fluctuations in water acquisition potential than to evaporative demand. Two species were summer-deciduous, but one of them (Ozoroa concolor) responded to aseasonal summer rainfall by leafing out and flowering. These two species had high shoot xylem water potentials when in leaf. All other species were sclerophyllous evergreens with low water potentials, particularly the shallow-rooted shrub Zygophyllum prismatocarpum, and Boscia albitrunca which may have a different rooting pattern to the other phreatophytes. The latter species was also unique due to its high leaf nitrogen contents, photosynthetic rates and stomatal conductances, despite very low leaf water potentials. Leaf stable carbon isotope composition (
20050904|I studied competition and coexistence of three tall clonal perennial plant species, Calamagrostis epigejos (L.) Roth, Solidago canadensis L., and Tanacetum vulgare L. along a gradient of soil productivity over five years. A replacement series field experiment was conducted with high, moderate and low fertility levels in 1m  1m plots. There were significant effects of soil type on ramet density (P &lt 0.001), mean height (P &lt 0.01), and total biomass (P &lt 0.01). Ramet density, mean height, and total biomass increased with increasing soil fertility. There were also significant effects of mixture on ramet density (P &lt 0.01), but not on mean height and total biomass for all species. Significant neighbor effects on ramet density and total biomass (P &lt 0.01) were found for Solidago, showing that it is important whether Tanacetum or Calamagrostis is its neighbor within mixtures. During the five years there was only one case of competitive exclusion: Calamagrostis excluded Solidago on the most fertile substrate in the fifth growing season. In most cases species coexisted over the five years. Each of the three species was able to dominate in at least one combination of substrate type and mixture. The experiment showed that asymmetric competition for light on substrates of high fertility, symmetric competition for nutrients on nutrient-poor soil and positive interactions especially on substrates of intermediate fertility played a role. A founder effect was evident in aggregated mixtures of Calamagrostis and Solidago on the nutrient-rich substrate. A conceptual model of the relative importance of root competition for soil nutrients, shoot competition for light, and positive interactions along the fertility gradient is presented. The model emphasizes that positive interactions play an important role over a broad range of the productivity scale with a peak at intermediate levels of fertility. On the substrate of high productivity shoot competition for light is more important than positive interactions and root competition for soil nutrients as well. The competitive superiority of Calamagrostis on the most productive substrate was evident only in the long run. Rare events like extreme summer drought or selective herbivore pressure caused a switch in dominance in mixtures with Solidago, respectively Tanacetum. The guerrilla growth strategy of Calamagrostis and interference competition through a dense cover of aboveground biomass and litter could further cause competitive exclusion.
20146895|The soil seed bank is a dynamic biotic component of plant communities that represents the population's memory in relation to selective events. Few studies have investigated the natural stock of germinable seeds in the gallery forests to evaluate their regeneration potential, although they are target of anthropogenic action. Thus, seasonal, horizontal, and vertical qualitative and quantitative variations of the seed bank of a gallery forest in the Brazilian Cerrado were studied to test the influence of the climatic seasonality, the influence of the physical structure, and depth of the soil in different microhabitats of the forest in this natural seed store. It was also compared the richness and abundance of species in the germinable seed bank with the above-ground vegetation. Three hundred and seventy-five soil samples were collected at the beginning (April 1998 and 1999) and at the end of the dry season (September 1998). These samples were collected in three microhabitats distributed transversally in relation to drainage line of a large stream, at five depths. The density of germinable seeds decreases with depth, and is similar among microhabitats and seasons. In 24,690 cm of soil and 4.05 m of litter, 1390 seedlings emerged, being 743 dicotyledons and 647 monocotyledons. From 761 survivors, 263 were Cyperaceae, 206 Melastomataceae, 153 Poaceae, and 82 Onagraceae, the most abundant families. This study suggests that the diversity of the germinable soil seed bank is lower than that of the above-ground vegetation of the forest, and that the soil seed bank is not the principal regeneration form of this environment.
23500373|Intraspecific variation in seed size may result from life-history constraints or environmental conditions experienced. This variation in seed size is likely to affect the early stage of invasion as seed size may contribute to the success or failure of population establishment. However, only a few studies have examined seed size variability and its causes and consequences for invaders so far. Using the invasive herb Lupinus polyphyllus, we estimated seed mass variation within and among 39 populations from two different geographic regions in a part of the invaded range. We empirically and experimentally evaluated the effect of seed number and environmental conditions (e.g. geographic region, habitat type, intraspecific competition) on seed mass, emergence and seedling performance. Seed mass varied threefold, being largest among individual plants within populations and smallest among populations. Variation in seed mass was neither related to seed number nor the environmental conditions examined, but led to differences in offspring performance, with emergence and seedling size increasing with seed mass. Larger L. polyphyllus seeds were better establishers than smaller seeds regardless of environmental conditions, indicating that the success of L. polyphyllus invasions is likely to depend positively on seed mass. Our results suggest that some plant species such as the invasive L. polyphyllus may not show an adaptive response in seed mass to resources or environmental conditions, which may partly explain their ability to colonise a range of different habitats.
20146942| With probably fewer than 3000 individuals alive in the biodiversity hotspot of the Succulent Karoo in southern Africa, populations of the endemic, Giant Quiver Tree, Aloe pillansii, are thought to be declining and thus threatened with extinction. Using repeat photography and field data we investigated the long-term changes in one population of A. pillansii at its type locality, the roughly 100 ha Cornell's Kop in the Richtersveld, South Africa. There are currently 75 individuals alive at this site. Of these, 44% are &lt 1 m in height (seedlings), 4% are 1-3 m (juveniles) and 52% are &gt 3 m (adults). An analysis of 14 repeat photographs shows that since 1937 an average of 1.4% of the plants &gt 3 m in height has died annually. At this rate all the remaining 39 plants on Cornell's Kop in this size class will be dead in 71 years. The relative paucity of plants in the 1-3 m size classes could be explained by several factors including plant theft, animal damage and unfavourable recruitment conditions during the first 80 years of the 20th century. Annual growth rates decrease as plants age. Individuals &lt 1 m in height grow at 42.5 mm yr while plants 1-3 m and those &gt 3 m grow at 31.0 and 16.4 mm yr respectively. At 8 m, the tallest plant on Cornell's Kop could be as old as 382 years and thus to maintain itself at this site, A. pillansii would only need to recruit relatively infrequently. The relatively high proportion of seedlings suggests that conditions have recently been favourable for recruitment at this site. Seedling ages, estimated from their heights, indicate that over 50% of the plants &lt 1 m in height germinated 5-10 years ago. This is consistent with local rainfall records which show that rainfall was consistently above the long-term annual average of 75 mm during this period. However, the loss of six seedlings from the population in the last 5 years, probably due to grazing or theft, suggests that without intervention this species will not survive on Cornell's Kop. 
40212915|Adaptive values of plasticity in Iris pumila leaf traits (morphological: SLA, specific leaf area; anatomical: SD, stomatal density; LT, leaf thickness; VBN, vascular bundle number; SW, sclerenchyma width; CW, cuticle width, and physiological: ChlT, total Chlorophyll concentration; ChlA/ B, Chlorophyll a/b ratio) were tested at three irradiance levels in a growth-room. Siblings from 28 full- sib families from an open dune site and a woodland understory responded similarly to Variation in light availability: SLA gradually increased, while anatomical and physiological traits decreased with light reduction. In the Dune population, standardized linear selection gradients were significant for SLA and ChlT at high light, VBN along the entire light gradient, SW at high- and low-, and ChlA/ B at low-irradiance. In the Woods population, the significant standardized linear selection gradients were observed for SLA and LT at low- and VBN at both high- and low- irradiance. A significant nonlinear selection gradient was recorded for SD and LT at medium irradiance. Comparisons of the plastic responses to each light quantity with the phenotypes favored by selection in that environments revealed that only an increased SLA value at low light in the Woods population was ecologically significant (adaptive). In the Dune population, SD and VBN entailed plasticity costs at low irradiance, while a cost of homeostasis was recognized for ChlT and ChlA/ B at medium light, SD and CW at high- and low-, and SLA at highand medium-light level. In the shaded population, CW and ChlA/ B incurred plasticity costs at high irradiance, while for ChlT plasticity costs appeared under medium- and low-light conditions. In all leaf traits, genetic Variation for plasticity was statistically undetectable. Genetic correlations between these traits were mostly insignificant, implying that they possess a capability for relatively independent evolution by natural selection across different light environments.
20050813|This study investigates correlations between mean -diversity of woody species (fleshy-fruited and non-fleshy-fruited) at forest edges and the attributes of the sites and of the adjacent landscape that might influence it. For a total of 45 forest edges in three areas in northern Switzerland species composition and structure of the edges were recorded. Based on aerial photographs, maps and a ground survey, the adjacent landscape within a radius of 100 m was mapped with GIS for two time periods (1952-1954 and 1994-1997). Diversity of fleshy-fruited species was higher at forest edges adjacent to nutrient-poor grassland or small roads compared with fertilized meadows. A positive correlation existed between diversity of fleshy-fruited species and density of isolated trees in the surroundings, although some trees have disappeared since 1952. Multiple regression analyses revealed that the diversity of fleshy-fruited species correlated positively with edge height and depth, and negatively with mean patch size in the adjacent landscape; a significant fraction of the variation among sites was also explained by the geological bedrock. Only a few other attributes of the sites and of their surroundings had a significant effect. Mean -diversity of non-fleshy-fruited species correlated with only two landscape attributes, i.e. total forest area and geology. The results are discussed on the basis of dispersal of fleshy-fruited species by passerine birds. The resulting hypothesis is that an increase in species diversity along forest edges is partly controlled by bird-mediated landscape effects.
41508744|We investigated post-photosynthetic fractionation and carbon transfer mechanisms of different plant functional types growing under the same climatic conditions in North-eastern China. The variations in C of trunk and branches were compared with leaf C at different canopy heights of Pinus koraiensis (evergreen coniferous species), Larix gmelinii (deciduous coniferous species) and Quercus monglica (deciduous broad-leaved species).Results showed that C of leaves increased (became more enriched) with increasing canopy height for both coniferous species (P. koraiensis, L. gmelinii) but not for Q. monglica (a deciduous broad-leaved species). C of both trunk and branches also increased with sampling height for the evergreen conifer P. koraiensis but did not significantly vary for either of the deciduous species (L. gmelinii or Q. monglica), except a significant increase in branch C for L. gmelinii. Similarly, C of trunk and branches were strongly correlated with leaf C only in the evergreen conifer, P. koraiensis. C was consistently more enriched in trunk, branches, and roots compared to leaves in all three species. Our findings suggest that, even under the same climatic conditions, different plant functional types may exhibit different carbon transfer mechanisms. This is contrary to the previous hypothesis that different carbon transfer mechanisms operate in forests of different climatic zones, especially in tropical and temperate forests. Particularly, the differences occur predominantly between evergreen and deciduous trees rather than between coniferous and broad-leaved trees. The significant difference in C between leaves and wood tissues confirms a previous post-photosynthetic isotope fractionation in temperate forests.
40212899|The length of time and form in which disturbances persist in systems depends on the intensity and frequency of disturbance and on the abilities of resident species to recover from such events. In grazed grasslands, trampling by large mammalian herbivores can periodically facilitate weed establishment by exposing patches of bare ground but whether an intense soil disturbance event results in a temporary increase in weed abundance or a persistent weed problem remains unclear. In May 2002, cattle trampling following heavy rain caused severe damage to nine-month old, rotationally grazed, cool-season pastures (Midwest USA). In September 2002, we compared the aboveground composition of paddocks (i. e., fenced pasture sections) that were heavily disturbed to those that received no damage. Relative to undisturbed paddocks, forage species relative cover was 17% lower in disturbed paddocks, and weed species and bare ground relative cover was 61% and 100% higher, respectively. By September 2004, paddock types did not differ in all above- ground community components. However, the abundance and species richness of weed seeds in the soil seed bank averaged respectively 82% and 30% higher in disturbed paddocks between 2003 and 2004. These findings indicate that a spatially extensive, intense soil disturbance event may soon become undetectable in components of aboveground pasture structure but can persist as an augmented weed seed bank. Because of high weed seed bank longevity, disturbances to formerly disturbed pastures would likely result in higher weed recruitment, with more species represented, than in those which lack previous disturbance. Disturbance history may thus be a useful predictor of weed community composition following subsequent disturbance. Based on empirical data supporting this proposition, we recommend that grassland managers explicitly incorporate disturbance history into dynamic management planning and do not rely exclusively on aboveground characters to evaluate the invasion status or colonization potential of an area by undesirable plants. We emphasize that the ecological legacies of past soil disturbance events cannot only influence the contemporary patterns and processes of grasslands, but importantly, affect their compositional trajectories following subsequent perturbation.
40305582|Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. forests of the southern Appalachian Mountains are currently facing imminent decline induced by a nonnative insect pest, the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae Annand). To effectively manage these forest systems now and in the future, land managers need baseline data on forest structure and dynamics prior to largescale Tsuga canadensis mortality. Most of our knowledge concerning the dynamics of Tsuga canadensis forests comes from more northern locations such as the Great Lakes region and New England and, therefore, may not pertain to the ecological systems found within the southern Appalachian Mountains. We examined the structure and canopy dynamics of four Tsuga canadensis forest stands within the Cataloochee watershed, in the far eastern part of Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP). We characterized the environmental settings and vertical forest layers, as well as the diameter and agestructures of each Tsuga canadensis forest stand. These environmental and structural data showed that there were indeed differences between forest stands with and without successful Tsuga canadensis regeneration. The two forest stands exhibiting successful Tsuga canadensis regeneration were located above 1,000 m in elevation on well-drained, moderately steep slopes and had the greatest canopy openness. Structural data from these two forest stands indicated a history of more continuous Tsuga canadensis regeneration. We also constructed disturbance chronologies detailing the history of canopy response to disturbance events and related these to Tsuga canadensis regeneration within each forest stand. Student -tests adjusted for unequal variances indicated significant differences in the number of release events per tree between forest stands with and without successful Tsuga canadensis regeneration. While forest stands with successful Tsuga canadensis regeneration were more frequently disturbed by minor to major canopy disturbances, events of moderate intensity were found to be most significant in terms of regeneration. These data will be of value to land managers maintaining stands of Tsuga canadensis where treatment for hemlock woolly adelgid infestation has been successful. In areas where treatment is impractical or unsuccessful, land managers will be able to use these data to restore Tsuga canadensis forests after the wave of hemlock woolly adelgid induced mortality has passed.
20146878|The tall, branched saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) is perhaps the best-recognized symbol of the desert. However, little is known about the regeneration and future of the species outside of a few well-studied populations. In 2000, data for 537 saguaros were collected in 30 populations throughout the northern Sonoran Desert. A recently developed technique now provides a mechanism by which to reconstruct individual age at multiple populations. This new technique is based on a general growth curve with a site-specific adjustment factor, which I calculate based on local growth data and a recognized relationship with summer rain. Thus, the year of establishment was estimated for all saguaros in each of the populations individually, followed by the merging of all individuals, to create a single regeneration and survivorship curve for the combined regional dataset. Unlike other studies that only look at regeneration at one site, this is the first study to look at the long-term regeneration of the species over an area of more than 50,000 km, nearly the US portion of its range. The results suggest that over the long term, the population is quite stable, with a favorable period of regeneration in the late 1800s and early 1900s. It is also encouraging that the frequency of individuals that established in the most recent time period is relatively high. However, whether these youngest individuals will persist over the long-term in the face of future extreme freezing events (which can substantially thin populations) is not clear.
