23432610|When grown on inert media, broad bean seedlings may develop blackened shoots which may completely collapse. In soil and in media prepared with 0.1% calcium nitrate, shoot and root growth were normal. At calcium nitrate concentrations of 0.5% or higher, root stunting occurred.
23432428|Seeds from 25 lots of 1970 production Tms cytoplasm corn seeds were tested on blotters for Drechslera maydis infection, in towels for germinability, and were grown in the greenhouse in steamed or nonsteamed corn-field soil under cool (19-22C) or warm (30-35C) conditions to evaluate stand potential. There was a significant correlation between the number of infected seeds and the number that germinated in towels. Seedling stands for all 25 lots grown under four different conditions in the greenhouse were lower than the germination percentages obtained in towel tests. The results of the towel tests, neverthless, were significantly correlated with the greenhouse results, except for the cool-steamed soil test. However, the mean stand obtained in the cool-nonsteamed soil test more closely agreed with the blotter and towel test means, although in a number of individual lots, good agreement was not obtained between the greenhouse and laboratory tests. It is suggested that a greenhouse temperature, intermediate between those used in this study, may yield stand results that are in better agreement with those obtained in towel tests.
23432614|Seeds of Genista tinctoria L. (dyer's greenweed) were subjected to several treatments to induce germination. Non-treated seeds showed 15% germination when placed on moist filter paper in petri dishes at 21C. Hot water and acid treatments did not greatly improve germination. Pre-chilling seeds at 5C for 90 days increased germination to more than 70%. Results indicated that Genista tinctoria seeds have dormant embryos and that pre-chilling aids in overcoming this dormancy.
23432505|Hybrid grain sorghum seed were aged artificially for 0, 3, 5, 7 and 11 days at 42C and 100% RH, which produced five vigor levels of seed. Among the various laboratory tests performed, standard germination was the least sensitive in discerning the physiological condition of the seed lots. The speed of germination more accurately differentiated the degree of deterioration of the seed lots and was closely correlated to yield. Planting low vigor seed caused reduced plant height, delayed panicle exsertion, and anthesis, less tillering capacity, and reduced yield. These slow growing plants were significantly inferior in panicle exsertion to those produced from more vigorous seeds. Seeds aged for 7 and 11 days had their process of exsertion delayed 2 and 3 days, respectively. Anthesis, consequently, was also significantly retarded. Tillering capacity of plants produced from low vigor seeds was significantly reduced, as well as grain yield. Primary head yield was also significantly reduced 14% for the more deteriorated seeds, and 12% for the mixed treatment, as compared to the control. Yield reductions of 9, 4 and 3% were also detected in seeds aged for 7, 5 and 3 days, respectively, as compared to the control. Seed moisture content was generally higher at harvest time for the lower vigor levels of seed indicating that the process of maturation was delayed due to low vigor. The blended treatment (mixed) was found to be as poor as the most deteriorated seeds in many plant performance characteristics. The drastic reduction in yield in this particular treatment suggests further research using different blending proportions and accurate identification of plants produced from high and low vigor seeds.
23432506|Rate of viability loss varied between seed lots regardless of the storage conditions. At 21C/70% relative humidity (RH), all seed lots lost viability rapidly; Where as at 21C/50% RH, 32C/50% RH, and 10C/70% RH, the rate of viability loss varied greatly among the seed lots. Storage at 10C/50% RH was found to be most practical for high-vigor seeds. Viability of both low-vigor and high-vigor seeds was retained equally well for 8 years at both 4C/35% RH and -1C/40% RH.
23432473|Seeds of 'Amsoy' and 'Hawkeye' soybean cvs (cultivars) were artificially aged by storage in sealed jars at 12.6-12.9% mois (moisture) at 40C. Seeds were removed from storage at intervals and subjected to vigor tests. Viability declined rapidly with aging. Sdl (seedling) length also decreased with deterioration, but hypo (hypocotyl) length of Amsoy was increased by aging up to 16 days. Total dry matter of sdls was not closely correlated with vigor. If the cotys (cotyledons) were excluded, however, the dry matter changes closely followed vigor. With aging, seed permeability and susceptibility to seed-decaying organisms increased.
23432525|Samples of soybeans, Glycine max (L.) Merr., cultivar 'Traverse' having what appeared to be two groups of off-type seed were tested for germination, cultivar purity, and fungal infection. The first group had distinct uniformly black hila and produced seedlings with purple hypocotyls indicating they were of a cultivar other than Traverse. The second group had hila which varied from partly brown to gray to imperfect black. These produced seedlings with green hypocotyls typical of Traverse. These seeds were also heavily infected with fungi, particularly Alternaria alternata. Hila discoloration was probably caused by this infection. Seeds with discolored hila had a lower germination percentage than seeds with yellow or distinct black hila. Seeds with discolored hila due to fungal infection may be difficult to distinguish by visual examination from those of cultivars with brown, gray or imperfect black hila.
23432356|The optimum germination condition for crambe seed (Crambe abyssinica Hochst. ex. R. E. Fries) was determined using six lots representing a cross-section of crambe germplasm. Seedling evaluations were made when radicles attained a length of 1.5 cm. Rolled towels as a substratum produced the best moisture conditions, thereby averting excess abnormal seedlings. These abnormal seedlings were probably induced by uneven moisture absorption by emerging radicles. In rolled towels, final germination percentages were the same at temperatures of 20, 25 and 20-30 C although germination proceeded faster at 25 C. Light was detrimental in rolled towel tests. When blue blotters in clear plastic boxes were used as substratum, light retarded germination of crambe seeds at all temperatures and increased the incidence of induced abnormal seedlings. In boxes with blotters, 20 C was the most favorable germination temperature followed by 25 C, then 20-30 C. Recommend: Crambe seed be germinated at 25 C dark in rolled towels moistened with tap water. A preliminary count must be made at 3 days with the final count at 7 days.
23432361|Endogenous rhythms exist in plants as evidenced by numerous cyclic phenomena and they are considered to be time measurements. These rhythms occur in seeds too; germination rhythms were observed in Kentucky bluegrass cultivars, 'Cougar' and 'Newport.' Oscillations occurred at 2 to 4 months after harvest, and again at 6 to 7 months, being unaffected by maturity or storage conditions. These phenomena are apparently related to after-ripening and may be encountered during testing of freshly harvested grass seed.
23432474|Seeds of soybean cvs (cultivars) 'Amsoy', and 'Hawkeye', stored at 12.6-12.9% moisture and at 40C lost viability rapidly. Sdl (seedling) resp (respiration) rates also decreased with storage but increased with time after planting. A highly significant correlation coefficient of 0.80 was obtained between resp of sdls (planted for 36 hr) and germ (germination) %age (percentage). The sugars and nitrogen fractions decreased with storage. The total sugar content of seed leachates increased with aging. GADA (Glutamic acid decarboxylase activity) was not closely correlated with seed age and germ. The dehydrogenase activity of the embryonic axes was more closely related than that of the coty (cotyledon) or the entire seed to the quality of the seeds.
23432596|Except when it is possible to examine entire seed lots for noxious weed seed content, the chance always exists that a lot containing noxious weed seeds will go undetected. The authors have described the situation in mathematical symbolism. A method is outlined for calculating the probability that a sample from a lot will contain no noxious weed seeds even though the lot is known to contain a low level of contamination. Results of calculations have been presented so that they may serve as a "sober" reminder of the extent to which the declaration can be wrong when a lot is declared "noxious-free."
23432466|Efficiency and accuracy of embryo preparation and evaluation require the focusing of suitable attention upon acceptable time saving practices. Suggestions are given concerning the use and placements of suitable containers, seed arrangement and orientation, moistening, cutting and staining techniques, etc.
23432366|Investigations were carried out to develop methods to identify cultivars of barley and wheat at the seedling stage by growing them on media lacking plant nutrients and under controlled environments. The useful characteristics studied for the identification of wheat cultivars were coleoptile colour, leaf colour and colour of the roots. Comparisons were made between the results of the coleoptile test and the results of a field plot assessment and it was confirmed that 'Genesee' and 'Talbot' could be separated at the seedling stage. Barley cultivars were distinguished on the basis of the leaf sheath colour at the seedling stage. The comparison between the identification of the cultivar at the seedling stage and the varietal assessment at the mature plant stage confirmed that 'Herta' barley can be distinguished from 'Keystone' by leaf sheath colour.
23432420|Rate of respiration, glutamic acid decarboxylase, dehydrogenase and catalase activity were measured in small, medium and large seed of Spanish peanuts. Rate of respiration, O2 consumption and enzymatic activity increased as seed size increased. The relatively high activity of the small seed as compared to large seed suggests immaturity.
23432495|Acid delinted seed of the Stoneville 7A and Stoneville 213 varieties of cotton were separated into four seed density classes with a gravity separator. The quality of seed from the four density classes and an ungraded control was compared in laboratory and field performance tests. Germination, field emergence, rate of emergence and seedling dry weight (3 wks.) generally increased as bulk density of the seed increased. Lint yield also increased as bulk density of the seed planted increased although plant populations were equal for all seed density grades. Yields from plots planted with high density seed were significantly higher than those planted with low density seed but not higher than the yields of plots planted with ungraded seed.
23432498|Seeds of several cantaloupe (Cucumis melo) cultivars retained essentially their full initial germination during 12 years of storage under all conditions tested. However, germination of seeds of other cultivars declined somewhat after 7 years, and very few seeds germinated after 12 years under the higher temperatures. Of the three storage conditions used (32C/15% relative humidity (RH), 21C/30% RH, and 10C/60% RH), 10C/60% RH was most satisfactory for storage of cantaloupe seeds over a 12-year period. Because only one sample of seed of each cultivar was included in this study, it is possible that all or some of the apparent differences in keeping quality between cultivars are sample differences rather than true cultivar differences.
23432602|AOSA rules do not include methods for testing germination of American sycamore (Platanus occidentalis L.), but seeds from southern sources can easily be tested on blotters at alternating temperatures of 20-30C. Light during the 8 hrs at 30 is beneficial. No prechilling is necessary, and germination is complete in 14 days.
23432494|The accuracy of three dividers (large Boerner, Gamet and medium soil sampler) were compared using a synthetic pasture seed mixture of the following components: Bromus inermis Leyss., Festuca arundinacea Schreb., Dactylis glomerata L., Trifolium hybridum L., and inert material. The most consistent results were obtained with the Gamet divider in comparison to the other dividers tested.
23432426|The exposure of mature soybean seed (Glycine max L.) to alternate drying and wetting under field conditions results in reduced quality. Mechanisms by which the damage occurs and the nature of the damage, however, have been imperfectly understood. New and informative insights concerning the nature of weather damage are gradually being brought into focus by use of a vital stain, tetrazolium, for identifying the presence, location, and nature of normal, weak, and dead tissues. The objective of this paper is to present some of these insights. The studies involved samples from several hundred lots of machine and hand harvested seed of commonly grown varieties within North Carolina and surrounding states. The study extended over a period of more than 15 years. The samples were exposed to variable weather and storage conditions for different periods of time. Many of the samples were altered under both field and laboratory conditions. Macroscopic and microscopic observations were made of individual seed structures. The studies revealed that initial embryo destruction was largely seed coat related and caused by rapid and differential absorption of water by localized tissues. The temporary expansion and folding of seed coats upon moistening, and the early contact of the moist folds with dry embryo tissues were found to be responsible for much of the localization of tissue destruction. Natural seed coat openings and weather-induced coat fissures were also involved. Narrow spaces between cotyledons, and between cotyledons and radicles likewise influenced the nature of water movement and tissue disturbances. Accelerated, progressive tissue disturbance was commonly found to advance within and outward from the initially disturbed areas. With time the areas of disturbance tended to advance into tissues that were vital for production of normal seedlings thus resulting in loss of germination by non-pathogenic and pathogenic action.
23432607|The relationship between rapidity of imbibition (the quick swell test) and potential germination was studied. Seeds of Penngift crownvetch, Coronilla varia L., were soaked in water for periods ranging from 1 to 144 hours and the seeds classified as either swelled (imbibed) or non-swelled. Results from germination tests indicated that the rapidity of swelling was significantly associated with seed viability. As the time to imbibe water and swell increased, the percentage of seeds that either decayed or produced abnormal seedlings decreased. For 201 commercial lots of Penngift crownvetch, 30% of the seeds tested swelled in 1 hour or less. Mean germination of the 201 lots was 72% (49% normal seedlings and 23% hard seed). A regression equation was derived to predict percentage germination and hard seed content from results of a 1-hour quick swell test.
23432472|Investigations were conducted to relate the physical characteristics of cottonseed to germ (germination), subsequent plant growth, and final plant development. The effects of length, diam (diameter), wt, volume, and dens (density) on the seed's ability to germinate and grow were determined. Procedures for a nondestructive measurement of a single seed's volume and density were developed. Visual germ cells also were developed to observe the germ at 24-hr intervals without losing the identity of individual seeds and without disturbing the young sdls (seedlings). The influence of seed density on germ was highly significant in the individual seed studies. Seed wt apparently had the most influence on sdl growth. Seed dens had such a strong influence on the earliness of germ that it overshadowed the influence of seed wt on growth in a combined analysis of germ and growth response. Design of cottonseed selection equipment should be based on dens. The level of seed dens to be culled will depend on the cv (cultivar) deterioration level of the seed lot, and the economics of supply and demand. Additional separation should be made on the basis of seed wt to cull out the light seed.
23432517|Mature seed on plants in adjacent fields of 'Dare' (maturity group V) and 'Lee 68' (maturity group VI) cultivars of soybeans were subjected to three environments to determine the cumulative effects of slightly different temperatures and relative humidities upon the rate and extent of field deterioration under warm, humid conditions. Treatments were initiated when seed moisture first dropped to 30% (physiological maturity) and continued until frost. For both cultivars, seed subjected to ambient environmental conditions had declined significantly in germination by four weeks after physiological maturity. Seed harvested from plots shaded to remove 50% of the incident sunlight deteriorated at a much slower rate than those from the unshaded plots. Five weeks after physiological maturity, germinations of seed produced under shade were 86 and 89% while those from the ambient plots were 55 and 75% for the Dare and Lee 68 cultivars, respectively. These differences were attributed to a more stable mircoenvironment surrounding the shaded plants. Possible means of reducing the rate of deterioration are considered.
23432526|Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) seeds, dried to approximately 4 and 7% moisture content, were packaged in Mylar/polyethylene; Acetate/foil/heat-seal coating; kraft/polyethylene/foil/polyethylene; Saran; Aclar; metalized polyester; and paper containers, and stored under the following temperatures (C) and relative humidities (RH): 32/90; 32/70; 21/90; 21/70; 10/90; 10/70; as well as in a water-curtain germinator operated at a night-to-day (15 hr-9 hr) temperature alternation of 20 to 30 C and 95 to 100% RH; and also with a biweekly rotation between the germinator and 4/35. Materials that provided good moisture protection extended the life of seeds stored under unfavorable conditions. At favorable storage conditions, good moisture protection had less effect on seed longevity. Materials that contained a foil in their construction provided better moisture and germination protection than did materials without a foil.
23432504|Differences in percent germination, percent filled, and weights of true mountainmahogany achenes collected on four mountain soils were highly significant (p=.01). Germination, fill and weight were greater, also at the .01 level, for achenes from northwest aspects than for achenes from southwest aspects. Achenes with highest germination were from plants on northwest aspects in the least fertile soil, which had the lowest natural population of mahogany. Contrastingly, achenes with lowest germination were from southwest aspects on the most fertile soil, where mahogany plants were most abundant. Reasons for this apparent contradiction are explored. Microenvironmental factors are important in determining mountainmahogany achene viability.
23432527|Each of four spruce species produced maximum germination on cellulose paper containing moisture levels of 23 to 88% of its water holding capacity. Only the lowest water level tested (10%) reduced germination.
23432539|Five samples each of alsike, red and white clover seed from three states, Idaho, Oregon, and Wisconsin, were separated individually into four and five (red clover) color classes. Data were obtained on percentage of the color classes in the sample, as well as germination, hard seed and average seed weight. The darker colors were the most numerous in alsike clover, intermediate colors in red clover and light colors in white clover. The darker colored seeds were heaviest in all three kinds, black in alsike, purple in red clover and red in white clover. Generally color class did not affect germination significantly. The germination plus hard seed content was highest in the yellow seeds of red and white clover. Green alsike and red clover seeds included more hard seeds and accordingly reduced immediate germination. Hard seed content was conspicuously higher in the Oregon samples of all three kinds of clover.
23432425|Geranium seed of several types, varieties and mixtures have been tested for germination in the laboratory for many years and found to have varying degrees of hardseededness. However, the introduction of F1 hybrid Carefree and New Era geranium stocks have led to new problems within the last five years for the seed dealer, seed analyst, greenhouse grower and even the home gardener who may purchase packet seed. Geranium seed can be treated with concentrated sulfuric acid to produce rapid, maximum germination of all viable seed within 7-14 days. Optimum treatment durations are very critical and depend on the degree of hardseededness and whether the seed has been previously dehulled. Although the optimum duration of acid treatment at room temperature varies from 4 to 12 minutes for all lots tested, 5-8 minutes are a safer range for unknown dehulled lots.
23432550|Obtaining adequate and uniform stands of crops is often a serious problem. A study was conducted to determine the effects of combining seed and soil treatments to improve the oxygen status of germinating seeds and reduce the mechanical resistance of soil crusts. Navy bean, soybean, and sugar beet seeds were soaked in hydrogen peroxide, and soils were banded with Krilium (vinyl acetate maleic anhydride), H3PO4, butadiene/styrene copolymerisate, and polyvinyl propionate. Laboratory, greenhouse and field studies were used to evaluate plant emergence, soil crust resistance, and yields. Hydrogen peroxide improved germination unless the seeds were dried before planting. Drying produced checked seed coats of soybeans resulting in reduced germination and emergence. Krilium was the superior anticrusting compound for the soil types and crops of this study. Banding Krilium on a Parkhill loam soil resulted in a 45% reduction in crust resistance and 200% increase in sugarbeet emergence and 33% in navy bean emergence. Krilium and H3PO4 banding also appeared to improve sugarbeet yields.
23432482|Germ (germination) of 1969 Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) seed conducted 1, 4 and 9 months after harvest showed 'Newport' seed to be more dormant than 'Cougar' seed. Imbi (imbibition) of potassium nitrate solution significantly increased Newport seed germ compared to water but had no effect on Cougar seed germ. Seed from 1965 and 1968 showed little dorm (dormancy) or differences in germ between the two cvs (cultivars). Resp (respiration) rates for these seed imbibed in KNO3 or water showed greater 02 uptake for Cougar seed compared to Newport. Seed of both cvs from 1965 and 1968 absorbed 02 more rapidly than 1969 seed. Resp of all Cougar seed increased rapidly after imbi, then increased at slower rates for remainder of the tests. Newport seed showed little response to KNO3 and resp decreased after the initial 4-day rise. Results indicate inherent superior sdl (seedling) vigor for Cougar over Newport and little influence of KNO3 on resp rates of freshly harvested seed. KNO3 does not overcome dorm per se but apparently acts in conjunction with light and alternating temp (temperature) treatments to increase germ rates. Nondormant Cougar seed treated with KNO3 had slightly higher resp rates but Newport seed gave erratic responses. The effects of KNO3 on seed metabolic processes during germ and sdl growth is not clear. KNO3 may enhance or substitute for gibberellic acid induction of  amylase synthesis during early phase of germ.
23432367|The history of seed treatments is traced from thermal energy and salt water through copper and mercury compounds to experimental non-metallic compounds. In 1967-1969 seeds of three cultivars of oats and five of wheat were treated with 360 chemical units. The seeds were germinated in paper towels, sterilized soil, Pythium-infested soil and Rhizoctonia-contaminated soil and sown in the field. Of the 84 treatments considered in this paper only 3 failed to eliminate or reduce common bunt of wheat but 37 did not control oat smuts. Nine treatments reduced germination of seeds in paper towels and sterilized soil. Thirty-seven treatments significantly increased germination in Pythium-infested soil and 33 in Rhizoctonia-contaminated soil. The weights of coleoptiles from seedlings grown in sterilized soil were increased by 20 and decreased by 17 treatments.
23432369|Three native plant species Hieracium pilosella (mouseear hawkweed), Potentilla anserina (silverweed cinquefoil), and Potentilla tridentata (wineleaf cinquefoil) were germinated under various conditions of temperature, light and prechilling treatment combinations. These studies were conducted to learn the germinative characteristics so as to perform optimum cultural and sowing practices for the establishment of successful seedling plots in the field. Hieracium pilosella was not sensitive to temperature or light and exhibited no dormancy of any nature. The seed germinated rapidly and completely under all temperatures and treatments. Both Potentilla species were found to be sensitive to low temperature and did not germinate well at either 15 C, 20 C or 15-25 C alternating temperature. P. anserina exhibited less dormancy than P. tridentata as potassium nitrate alone stimulated maximum, rapid germination (91-95%) in light at the optimum temperature of 20-30 C. It was necessary to prechill P. tridentata seed for one month at 3-5 C in order to secure maximum germination of all viable seed.
23432471|Freshly harvested seed lots of Japanese millet seed were sent to nine labs (laboratories) during the fall of 1969 for cooperative research in germ (germination) testing. Three preplanting treatments were specified: (1) the seed was predried at 35C for 7 days, (2) the seed was prech (prechilled) on moistened blotters at 5C for 7 days, and (3) control no pretr (pretreatment). Following pretr the seed was germinated at five temp (temperatures): 20, 10-30, 20-30, 15-25, and 30C. Dorm (dormancy) was present in freshly harvested seed, but decreased as the time after harvesting increased. Predrying was more effective than prech for breaking the dorm of Japanese millet seed. The germ at 20-30C was significantly higher than 20, 10-30, 15-25, and 30C. Predrying markedly increased the germ, reduced the temp sensitivity and resulted in a more uniform germ. The technique of predrying Japanese millet seed merits serious consideration for inclusion in the Rules for Testing Seeds.
23432417|Hand harvested Lee 68 soybean seed were rapidly aged to produce six sublots differing in physiological quality. The deterioration of these sublots under moderately adverse storage conditions was then characterized in terms of the sequence, degree and direction of change in selected physiological parameters. Deterioration was first manifested in an increased sensitivity or susceptibility of the seed to environment stress (accelerated aging, high and low temperatures). Later during the storage period, rate of germination decreased and RQ increased. Finally, germination percentage, rate of seedling growth, and O2 consumption decreased in that order. In a parallel study, it was demonstrated that permeability of the seed to TTC increased with degree of deterioration, but formazan production decreased when the permeability factor was eliminated. Accelerated aging, cold test, and hot water treatment responses were most closely associated with longevity of the seed in storage.
23432359|Autoclaved and surface-sterilized seeds and seedlings of 45 cucurbitaceous, gramineous and leguminous cultivars excelled standard agar media in the production of conidia of Glomerella cingulata. The addition of water-soluble, heat-labile extracts from seeds and seedlings to Czapek, PDA and Sabouraud media increased their conidial productivity without materially reducing sporogenesis on the seeds and seedlings. About 198 billion spores were recovered from one petri dish filled with honey locust seeds vs. 130 to 585 million spores for equivalent surfaces of Czapek, PDA and Sabouraud media. Neither L-asparagine, a micronutrient solution, far-UV light nor near-UV light was required for induction or continuation of sporogenesis. Increases in spore numbers could be demonstrated but not of a magnitude attributable to seeds and seedlings.
23432503|Commercial seeds of Purple Top Turnip were sized into large, medium, medium, and small sizes, and commercial seeds of Wisconsin All Season cabbage were sized into large, medium and small sizes. Sized seeds were evaluated by selected laboratory and field performance tests in order to determine size-performance relationships. The first-count germination (3-days) and the vigor index ratings were not significant among all seed sizes for turnips. However, small turnip seeds were significantly lower in standard germination (7-days) and seedling root length as compared to other seed sizes. Both medium and small seeds were significantly lower in final stand establishment and accelerated aging response as compared to large seeds. In cabbage, with the exception of final stand in which all seed sizes performed equally, small size seeds were significantly lower in all other tests. Significant differences existed among fresh and dry weight of seedlings produced from seeds of different sizes in both turnip and cabbage at 36 days after planting. As seed size decreased seedling fresh weight and dry weight decreased concomitantly. Turnip leaf development was significantly superior on plants arising from large seeds as compared to plants from small seeds. Leaf development on cabbage plants from large seeds was significantly superior to leaf development on plants from small seeds only during the first two months of growth. Growth and vigor of seedlings of both cabbage and turnips increased as seed size increased. Leaf and root fresh weight and mean root size increased significantly in turnips as seed size increased from small to large. In cabbage, however, yield was not significantly increased as seed size increased, but large seeds exhibited superior performance in most of the laboratory and field performance tests. On the other hand, large size turnip seeds always produced plants which performed significantly superior as compared to plants produced from other size seeds, particularly through the first 80-103 days after planting.
23432483|The germ (germination) of dormant Indian ricegrass seeds was promoted at alternating temps (temperatures) with 5C as the low alternate. The highest average germ of all dormant seed lots tested, with and without a prechill of 4 weeks at 5C, was obtained in the dark at 5 to 15C, with the seeds planted in sterile greenhouse potting soil moistened with 100 ppm GA (gibberellic acid). A 4-week prechill treatment also promoted germ of dormant seeds at higher germ temps but had little effect at 5 to 15C. Sterile greenhouse potting soil provided a more favorable substrata than did rolled towels, blotters, or sand. The use of 100 ppm GA solution as a 24-hour presoak or moistening agent promoted germ at various temps equal to that obtained at 5 to 15C. Other pretreatments found to be less effective or impractical included: presoaking in 0.2% sodium nitrate, 50 ppm kinetin. 0.2% calcium nitrate, 0.4% hydogen peroxide, 0.2 and 2% potassium nitrate, and 0.2% nitric acid solutions; scarification with concentrated sulfuric acid; scarification by rubbing seeds between corrugated rubber surfaces; and exposure to radiofrequency electric fields. The persistent dormant condition of seeds of Indian ricegrass, Oryzopsis hymenoides (Roem. and Schult.) Ricker, causes difficulty in obtaining reliable laboratory germ test results. An extensive study of germ methods was made at the National Seed Storage Laboratory to find a method which would produce maximum germination.
23432613|Ten commercial samples of Lolium multiflorum Lam. were tested for fluorescence at normal temperatures and day length as specified by the AOSA Rules. Variables were test duration and root disturbance. Final counts were made at 14, 17, and 21 days. Three regimes were undisturbed until final count. Two regimes were disturbed but not counted before the final count. Two regimes were counted and the non-fluorescing sprouts transferred to fresh media before the final count. Lengthening the undisturbed tests had no effect. While disturbing the roots increased fluorescence slightly, maximum fluorescence occurred on the 17th day with seedlings that had been transferred on the 14th day. Amount of additional fluorescence, however, was insignificant.
23432521|Tomography is a non-destructive X-ray technique for obtaining an image of any preselected plane within the specimen. Unlike a radiograph, which is an image of all planes superimposed, a tomogram is an image of a single plane; it is similar to a photograph of a microtomed section. The necessary apparatus is available at most large hospitals, and the procedures of medical tomography can be readily adapted to seed research.
23432423|Seeds of six cultivars of winter wheat were planted under controlled environments in media treated with gibberellic acid. Seedlings of Yorkstar and Gaines differed from the other cultivars in showing less elongation of leaves and leaf sheath. A key was constructed for separating the six cultivars by means of seed and seedling methods (phenol test, coleoptile color and response to gibberellic acid).
23432357|Investigations have shown that the number of grains of cereals germinating in germination tests is dependent upon the number of pre-germinated corns present, the amount of water added, the temperature of the added water, the temperature of germination, the relative position of the embryo to the level of water, the amount of oxygen present in the germination medium, the level of micro-organism infestation, the presence of dissolved ions in the germination medium, the length of storage at high temperatures and the moisture content of storage. As a result a set of conditions has been defined enabling exactly comparable tests to be made in different laboratories. The measured criteria of the testthe mean and standard deviation of the germination timehave been used for studying varietal differences in germination, for assessment of malting quality, for determining the optimum time for the start of malting, for investigating variety  location inter-actions of malting quality, for vigor studies and for the assessment of milling quality of wheat. This series of investigations has shown that the germination resistance test offers a simple, cheap reproducible method of measuring the germination characteristics of cereals. It has also shown that much useful information regarding the germination of cereals, not normally obtained from germinability tests can be gained. This sensitive technique can thus be used to study the effect of all external agencies on the germination of small grain cereals and with modifications in the moisture supply should also be adaptable to other non-gramineous seeds.
23432418|Differences in seedling growth, respiration, total and reducing hot water soluble carbohydrates, sucrose, glucose and amino acids were studied in germinating low- and high-quality soybean seeds. The criteria for low- and high-quality were total germination and rapidity at which seeds germinated. Fresh and dry matter accumulation of the embryonic axes from high-quality seeds were significantly greater than from low-quality seeds from 24 through 72 hours after planting and were highly correlated with seedling length. Also, seedlings of high-quality seeds significantly exceeded those of low-quality seeds in (1) respiration rates (oxygen consumed), (2) seedling length, (3) total and reducing sugars, and sucrose levels within the embryonic axes, and (4) -amino and imino-acids. The higher levels of -amino and imino-acids in the higher-quality seeds were highly correlated with glucose and sucrose levels, seedling length and dry matter respectively of the embryonic axes. Levels of the total water soluble sugars were the same in both seed lots prior to imbibition. However, following imbibition high-quality seeds were better able to mobilize and interconvert these energy reserves to utilizable metabolites which are essential for germination and early seedling growth.
23432598|Sequential analysis was applied to the problem of testing seed lots for the level of noxious weed seeds. A new technique of testing through the sequential test ratio was developed, and results were examined. In sequential analysis decisions of risk can be made in advance; upper and lower control limits can be changed easily; and the most important advantage is that the test can be easily understood and practically used. By taking continuous sampling and making a decision at the end of each sampling, the inspector's duties are considerably eased. This study showed that the use of sequential tests has excellent potential and flexibility as a statistical tool in testing for noxious weed seeds.
23432545|A new method is presented for sorting seeds into categories of germination and vigor potential. The seeds are subjected to a brief pre-imbibition and after sorting returned to the quiescent state. Seed of ninety varieties (thirty-two species) has been examined and sorted. Testing consisted of both laboratory germination and field trials. Results from both representative test series and mechanically damaged seed series are discussed. Most of the sorting was conducted with laboratory bench models; however, an automatic high speed device was recently designed and tested. Results from three years of study demonstrate an improvement in plant vigor and crop yields through the selection of high vigor seed. Data are also presented which suggest that high vigor seed mature earlier than low vigor seed, and that the earliness and high yield characteristics are transferred to succeeding generations.
23432597|An analysis of the present method used for testing seed lots for the presence and amount of noxious weed seeds is included in this paper. Some problems and possible improvements in the currently employed statistical method are presented. The standard test procedure has been derived from a theoretical and experience base using classical statistical methods. These methods usually give prime consideration to only one of the two possible statistical errors. A more meaningful approach to this problem considers the effect of both types of statistical error. These errors and their effect upon the seed producer and the seed consumer are reviewed. A procedure is given which permits consideration of the economic effect of both types of error when tolerance limits are set. Essentially the present test method is used; however, guidelines are given for determining an adequate sample size. Meaningful use of these guidelines requires some knowledge of the economic effect of the two types of error.
23432603|Current AOSA Rules prescribe a 28-day test at 20-30C for sweetgum seed. Studies with seven lots from central Mississippi suggested that 30-40C would yield quicker and more complete germination.
23432606|A refinement of a method used by Belderok for studying dormancy was evaluated on seven lots of smartweed seed with different amounts of dormancy. Levels of dormancy were measured by the number of weeks of prechill required to obtain a germination percentage equal to 90% of the potential viability. This method was then used to compare seed prechilled in the laboratory with seed subjected to the natural environment. The performance of laboratory-conditioned seed lots adequately represented relative changes in the dormancy of seed lots subjected to the natural environment.
23432501|Lesquerella seeds soaked, dried, and stored still exhibited the dormancy-breaking effect of gibberellic acid after 72 months at 5C and 35% relative humidity. However, the effectiveness of the gibberellic acid treatment had, in some cases, diminished with time. Retreatment restored the full dormancy-breaking effectiveness of gibberellic acid.
23432480|A dry material containing no coal tar derivative was not injurious to seven kinds of seeds and their sdls (seedlings). One ingredient of this material was used as a bird replt (repellent) 125 years ago. The addition of an incide (insecticide), dieldrin or diazinon, did not materially affect the fungi-or phyto-toxicity of the basic repellent. The necessarily high dosage rates of 6.7 to 13.3 oz/bu increased interfacial friction with resultant decreases in apparent bushel wts (weights) and actual drilling rates. The rplt was compatible with several fcides (fungicides) and fcide-incide mixtures. Official prohibition of the use of dieldrin and the substitution of diazinon would increase the cost while probably decreasing the effectiveness of the complex formu (formulation) as an insect rplt.
23432481|A comparison between the current and the 1937 AOSA Rules showed that germ (germination) test periods have tended to increase. The rules governing seedling assessment have become more detailed so that analyst time per test has also increased. Studies showed that the test period for white winter wheat could be shortened by testing at the optimum temp (temperature) for rapid development and that for sugar beet could be shortened by deactivating germ inhb (inhibitors). The time required for sdl (seedling) assessment of wheat was reduced by modifying traditional media.
23432479|A summary of research findings are reported on the germve (germinative) characteristics of twelve shrub and small tree species under different conditions of temperature, light and mois (moisture) either singly or in combinations with acid or moist prech (prechilling) treats (treatments). Hardseededness, temp (temperature) sensitiveness, and varying degrees and types of dorm (dormancy) were the factors either singly or jointly which were necessary to overcome in order to secure accurate, maximum, germ (germination) of all viable seed. Information on optimum germ procedures and testing methods are reported on the following species: Amelanchier utahensis (desert or Utah service-berry), Ceanothus integerrimus (deerbrush ceanothus), C. sanguineus (redstem ceanothus), C. velutinus (snowbrush ceanothus), Cercocarpus ledifolius (curlleaf mountainmahogany), C. montanus (true mountainmahogany), Cowania stansburiana (Stansbury cliffrose), Purshia glandulosa (desert bitterbrush), P. tridentata (antelope bitterbrush), Rhus trilobata (skunkbush sumac), Shepherdia argentea (silver buffaloberry) and S. canadensis (russet buffaloberry).
23432360|The official and factor methods of determining pure seed of Agropyron elongatum (Host) Beauv., were compared. Each method was evaluated on the percent of pure seed, germination, pure live seed, and time required to complete the purity analysis. The time required to complete the purity analysis by the factor method was significantly less than that for the official method. There was a saving of approximately 15 minutes on a 7 gram sample.
23432549|Increased use of similar germ plasm to produce new wheat cultivars and wide regional production of similar cultivars make identification by morphological characteristics difficult and time consuming. Phenol stain test was used to characterize seed of current wheat cultivars and to detect mixtures of winter and spring types. Variations in color development in seed coats when treated with phenol were also evaluated by manometric techniques to determine phenol oxidase activity. Combined methods offered more precise identification of cultivars and mixtures of types and cultivars and may be used to classify color reactions of cultivars as developed.
23432600|Four subsampling devices (automatic, Boerner, Gamet and soil-sampler) were compared using seed of smooth bromegrass. Samples were contaminated with tall wheatgrass, annual sunflower, and alfalfa seed for the first investigation and with smooth bromegrass multiple florets for the second investigation. The automatic subsampling device (ASD) compared favorably with the other dividers tested. The Gamet divider was most accurate when the amount of multiple florets was compared with other subsamples.
23432358|Naturally and artificially aged seeds were used in an evaluation of physiological parameters as indices of seed and seedling vigor. In the six varieties tested glutamic acid decarboxylase, nitrogen fractions and total carbohydrates showed little, if any, relationship to seed age. However, glucose levels, respiration of the imbibed seed and tetrazolium tests all exhibited excellent correlations with seed quality and subsequent seedling vigor. Of the seedling parameters examined, 4-day germination and seedling growth rates were both excellent estimates of seedling vigor, while the 7-day germinations tended to overestimate seedling vigor.
23432508|A study was begun in 1970 to determine the optimum storage conditions for noble fir (Abies procera Rehd.) seeds. The moisture content of two seed lots was adjusted to six levels and the seeds were stored in sealed jars at -18, 5, and 20C. Germination tests were conducted to monitor the effect of storage conditions on seed viability. Noble fir seeds can be successfully stored for 2 years at -18, 5, or 20C, depending on their moisture content. At 4% moisture, viability was maintained at all three temperatures, while at 6, 8, and 9% moisture, viability was preserved only at -18 and 5C. At 12% moisture, viability was best protected at -18C. At 16 and 17% moisture, viability declined at all three temperatures. These results indicate that the recommended storage moisture of 9 to 12% for noble fir seeds should be lowered to 6 to 9% as recommended for other conifer species of the Pacific Northwest.
23432476|Lettuce field yields were compared with two seed lots each of the cvs (cultivars) 'Climax', 'Vanguard', and 'Golden State D'. There were apparent significant seed lot-market yield effects in two of the three comparisons. Yield relationships compared with physl (physiological) necrosis were: (1) diametrically opposed, or (11) non existent. Because of lack of control of confounding factors associated with the seed lots tested, the single role of physl necrosis cannot be determined from this experiment. Known confounding variables were size and age of seed and area of production. Cvs differed in yield according to their adaptability. Laboratory vigor measurements were taken.
23432499|Red clover, Trifolium pratense L., cultivars were classified as "early" or "late" according to the traditional procedure of Bird (1). Results were compared with information from agronomic and yield studies carried out at several locations over two seasons. The validity of Bird's classification method was confirmed.
23432422|Freshly harvested seeds of Setaria faberii Herrm. in three stages of maturity, namely dark seed, green plump seed and immature green seed, exhibited almost complete dormancy when germinated at a 20 to 30C temperature alternation for 21 days. Prechilling the fresh seed for one month at 5C increased germination at all stages much more than did piercing. A combination of piercing and prechilling the fresh seed was most effective in breaking dormancy. Average germination of the dark seed was 77%, of green plump seed 87% and of the immature green seed 77%. Dormancy was also reduced by one year in dry storage at room temperatures. Five samples which were completely dormant when freshly harvested gave average germination of 44% for the dark seed, 62% for the green plump seed, and 73% for the immature green seed after one year of dry storage.
23432469|Studies on the germinative response of Mesembryanthemum criniflorum were conducted in order to learn the optimum laboratory testing method for this kind of seed. Many seed lots were found extremely sens (sensitive) to germ (germination) temp (temperatures) of 20C and above. Some new crop seed lots showed germ as low as 2 to 28% at 20-30 and yet under the optimum low temperatures of 10-15C these same lots germinated 68 to 93%. Most stocks responded promptly with their maximum potential germ at 15C within 14 days. Some of the most sens new crop stocks required a temp of 10C with KNO3 for maximum, rapid germ. One- to 2-year-old seed did not exhibit this extreme sens nature to temp and responded well at temp of 20C.
23432461|Investigations were carried out to develop methods to identify cvs (cultivars) of barley at the seedling stage. Seeds of 24 cvs were grown in media treated and untreated with GA3 (gibberellic acid) in controlled environmental conditions. The diagnostic characteristics studied were the length of the ctile (coleoptile), first leaf and first internode. The cvs differed in the length of these structures when grown in the untreated media. Further differences between cvs were shown in the elongation of these structures in response to GA3. On the basis of these findings it was possible to construct a key to identify 11 of the 24 cvs in these studies.
23432541|Seeds of 24 barley cultivars were multiplied in field plots at Winnipeg, Lethbridge, Beaverlodge and Charlottetown, stations with diverse climatic conditions. The seeds were pearled mechanically and were separated for difference in aleurone colour before and after treating with 1% HCl. The HCl treatment increased the precision of aleurone colour classification. The investigations also revealed that environment affected the expression of aleurone colour and there was variation in aleurone colour expression within and between the cultivars.
23432424|The official and factor methods of determining pure seed of Agropyron trichophorum (Link) Richt., were compared. Each method was evaluated as to the percent of pure seed, germination, pure live seed, and the time required to complete the purity analysis. The factor method required significantly less time than the Association of Official Seed Analysts procedure.
23432475|Four 'Great Lakes 659' lettuce seed lots of increasing age (5, 17, 29, and 41 months) were subjected to germ (germination) temps (temperatures) from the ideal up to the critical range near 30C where high temp inhibition occurs. Although older seed, produced less vigorous sdls (seedlings) germ was correlated with seed age in the critical range. Intermediate temp reduced germ of seed less than 6 months old indicating post-harvest dorm (dormancy). Seed age and temp produced germ responses from 0 to 99% with intermediate levels. Critical temp increased germ time. Standard germ procedures did not indicate germ potential at critical temp. Aging viable seed decreased high temp dorm. The authors suggest that seeds be germ tested under temp conditions to be encountered at time of germ and that objective vigor comparisons be made under controlled conditions. At 30C K (kinetin) pretreatment caused germ of young seed and improved the germ of older seed. This response could be due to an enzymatic hormone complex that will promote or inhibit germ.
23432362|The seeds of twenty weedy species from four genera of the Convolvulaceae are keyed, described, and illustrated. Two types of hila are defined: 1) the ipomoea-type hilum is large, nearly circular in outline, usually emarginate at its base, and usually surrounded by a ridge and 2) the convolvulus-type hilum is small, wider than long, not emarginate, and not surrounded by a ridge.
23432368|For many years it has been difficult to secure accurate, maximum germination of all viable seed or true planting value of Abies balsamea (balsam fir), A. fraseri (fraser fir) and certain lots of other Abies species during laboratory testing for germination. The dormant nature of the seed which requires a moist prechill treatment of 21-28 days or more at 3-5 C together with fungus contamination and growth during the 2-month over-all test duration have been the two factors responsible for these sometimes erroneous, erratic or negative germination results. Since 1944 it was found that many seed lots were infected with a fungus, Rhizoctonia solani, which actually killed good seed prior to germination or sprout emergence both during the prechill treatment and during germination testing. The killing of viable seed was particularly serious during the long, cold prechill treatment at 3-5 C. A 70-75% dust of PCNB (pentachloronitrobenzene) applied to the seed of balsam, fraser and grand fir gave excellent fungus control without any injury to the germinating seedlings. The 100% control of this killing fungus resulted in accurate, maximum germination of all viable, strong seed during laboratory testing for planting value.
23432605|Two experiments were made to determine the optimum germination procedure for smartweed seed. In the first, 13 treatments and a control were used to evaluate the length of prechill, temperature of prechill, effect of acid soaks, and effect of acid soaks followed by a prechill. In the second experiment, five constant and three alternating temperatures were used to investigate the influence of temperature regimes on germination. The treatment giving the most reproducible results was a prechill in water at a temperature of 5C for a minimum of 60 days and then germinated at alternating temperatures of 10-30C. Maximum germination was obtained by placing the seed in water and alternating weekly between temperatures of 5 and 35C.
23432464|The official and factor methods of determining pure seed of Agropyron smithii Rydb. were compared. Each method was evaluated on the percent of pure seed, germination, pure live seed, and time required to complete the purity analysis. The time required to complete the purity analysis by the factor method was significantly less than that for the official procedure. There was a saving of approximately 12 min on a 5-g sample.
23432523|Studies were conducted to define the variability caused by variety and location on percent seedcoat and seedcoat thickness of mature soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.) seeds. Seedcoat thickness was measured with a sensitive micrometer and percent seedcoat was determined by manually separating seedcoats from mature seeds. Seedcoats of the commercial varieties 'Davis,' 'Hood,' and 'York' were about 30% thicker than either 'Mack' or 'Hill.' Seedcoats of these varieties varied from 74 to 99 microns; whereas, within a group of genetically diverse plant introductions the thickness ranged from 71 to 102 microns. Seedcoat thickness of commercial varieties was not significantly influenced by either seed weight or by location where plants were grown. Percent seedcoat was found to be significantly different among varieties and was highly correlated with thickness. Other simple correlation coefficients indicated no significant association of seed-coat thickness with either seed weight, seed quality, or seed yield. Varieties with the thickest seedcoats generally did not produce the highest quality seed.
23432355|The germination response of crambe seed (Crambe abyssinica Hochst. ex R. E. Fries) was tested simultaneously over a 10 to 40 C range of alternate and constant temperatures produced on a thermogradient plate. Alternating temperatures did not produce better results than constant temperatures; 25 C constant was centrally located in the area of optimum germination response. In dark conditions, optimum normal germination occurred between 20 and 30 C, whereas light restricted the optimum germination range to a narrow zone from 26 to 28 C. Light increased the number of abnormals above 28 C and retarded germination below 26 C. Thermogradient plate data were used to select germination conditions for intensive study with standard germination methods and to corroborate subsequent finding.
23432540|A comparison of 8 prechill methods and 3 germination temperatures for white ash seeds from Illinois, Tennessee, and Mississippi showed that alternating temperatures of 10-30 C and 15-25 C were both better than 20-30 C. Moist prechill at 3 C broke dormancy; required periods ranged from 8 to 20 weeks depending on seed source. Of the two recommended rapid tests, embryo excision appeared to be better than TZ staining.
23432543|A water presoak of 12 to 48 hours enhanced tetrazolium (TZ) staining of longleaf pine seed. The intensity of the stain increased with temperature of the TZ soak although temperatures above 15 C had no influence on the amount of area stained. Very dark stains resulting from TZ soaks of 48 hours or at temperatures of 35 C made positive evaluation of vitality impossible. Therefore, the most desirable and convenient technique was to soak seed in water 24 hours at room temperature, slice the seed lengthwise (just off center), and then soak 24 hours in a 1% TZ solution at 30 C.
23432599|Kentucky bluegrass seed was sampled with an automatic subsampling device (ASD) and a Gamet divider. The ASD was effective in obtaining representative subsamples. Size of the contaminant seed, however, appeared to influence the variability of both the ASD and Gamet dividers, with the Gamet performing better on smaller seeded contaminants and the ASD better for larger seeded contaminants. The ability of the ASD to automatically weigh a subsample might help automate some phases of seed laboratory work.
23432496|After staining in 2,3,5-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride, cliffrose (Cowania mexicana D. Don.) embryos were grouped into six characteristic stain patterns. Regression of results from the stain patterns on germination percentages from 10 collections of seeds indicates that embryos must be almost completely stained a dark red to be considered germinable. Temperature at which staining takes place and the concentration of staining solution markedly affect the rate of staining and the amount of stain product formed. Two ecotypic collections of this species responded somewhat differently to the staining conditions, possibly due to differences in physiological characteristics. Staining embryos for 2 hours in a 0.5% TTC solution at 40C gives nearoptimum results in terms of rapidity and intensity of staining.
23432421|Unshelled, handshelled and mechanically shelled peanut seed were stored under several conditions for periods up to 48 weeks. Germinability of mechanically shelled peanuts declined much more rapidly than that of handshelled seed or seed stored in the shell (pod) except for seed stored at 5C-40% relative humidity. There was no conclusive evidence that the pod itself retarded rate of deterioration. These data indicate that peanut seed should be stored in the pod until 4-6 weeks before planting season unless cold, dry storage facilities are available.
23432544|Evaluation of the substrate moisture level was made on sweetgum and sand pine. Both of these species were sensitive to some substrate moisture levels. Data is provided to establish moisture control for testing these species.
23432364|Cellulose acetate prints of the upper leaf surface were made of the following eight varieties (cultivars) of Kentucky bluegrass: 'Atlas,' 'C-1,' 'Cougar,' 'Delft,' 'Merion,' 'Nugget,' 'Park,' and 'Prato.' Some distinctive differences in size and shape of stomata and other anatomical characters are noted and their usefulness in distinguishing the individual varieties is discussed.
23432522|The location, degree and extensiveness of shattered seed coat damage in soybeans are important factors for appraisal of seed quality. As the amount of damage to the seed coat increased, germination decreased. Seeds selected for large amounts of shattering of the seed coat gave less than 30 percent germination as compared to 76 percent for those without damage. In seed with transverse breaks in the seed coat and cotyledons, germination was reduced and the position of the break was more important than the size of the piece that was severed. These results suggest that seed coat damage should be considered in pure seed evaluation.
23432611|A sample of Target rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) produced abnormal stunted swollen roots in a germination test. Similar root abnormalities had previously been observed in tests with 2-chloroethyl phosphonic acid which releases ethylene in plants. The synthetic growth regulators act in a similar manner to ethylene in other species. The possibility of contamination with synthetic growth regulator herbicide residues was investigated by gas-liquid chromatography, and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was detected at a level of 0.45 ppm. Treatment of normal seed with 2,4-D induced similar root abnormality. Since a residue of 2,4-D of 0.5 ppm resulted in seedling abnormality, a germination test could be used as a general screening method for herbicide contamination.
23432524|In acorns artificially aged to produce a range of vigor, germination rate was significantly correlated with tetrazolium staining, growth, and exhaustion tests, but not with oxygen uptake or carbohydrate leakage. None of the tests correlated significantly with germination percentage.
23432462|C ac (Cellulose acetate) prints of the upper leaf surface were made of Kty bg (Kentucky bluegrass), Poa pratensis L., and 25 of its cvs (cultivars): 'Anheuser,' 'Arboretum,' 'Atlas,' 'Beaumont,' 'Belturf,' 'Campus,' 'Cougar,' C-1,' 'Delft,' 'Delta,' 'Fjord,' 'Fylking,' 'Geary,' 'Kenblue,' 'Merion,' 'Newport,' 'Nudwarf,' 'Nugget,' 'Park,' 'Prato,' 'Primo,' 'Silverblue,' 'Troy,' 'Windsor,' and 'Zwartberg.' Dimensions of stomata, prickle-hairs, and fml (fundamental) cells are used with other chars (characters) to identify individual cvs. The development of many cvs of Kty bg has accentuated the difficulties in identifying individual cvs solely by means of seed characters. Since the chars may be very similar among certain cvs, additional information such as that obtained from leaf epidermal chars is desirable. The technique of obtaining leaf epidermal chars from c ac replicas, and the use of the chars to make varietal identifications, have been described by Stoddard (4). Nittler (3) applied this technique to distinguish several cvs of Kty bg. Work presented here is an extension of a study reported in 1969 (5) on leaf epidermal chars of eight cvs of Kty bg. Chars for Kty bg and 25 of its cvs are reported in the present study.
23432477|One-and-2 yr-old lots of corn seed consisting of the inbred line (CM 104) and three hybrids ('Ganga 101', 'Deccan' and 'Ganga 3') were subjected to lab (laboratory) germ (germination) and cold tests in order to study the effect of soil substrate and seed treat (treatment) on their cold-test perfs (performances). A soil substrate inoculated artificially with a Pythium sp. gave slightly more severe responses than a naturally infested one although, in the latter these responses were also highly significant. The cold-test perf of 2-yr-old seed lots improved considerably when they were retreated with a fungicide indicating that the treatment loses effectiveness over a period of time and that retreat of older seed lots improves their field-perf value. The differential responses of the four corn types to lab germ and cold test under different treats may be due to differences in their background history and genetic make-up.
23432548|Chalcid-fly infested birdsfoot trefoil seed float on a 0.5% detergent solution. In tests using 400 seeds, 94.6% of the chalcid-fly infested seed and 63.6% of other seed was separated by the method. The insects, both living and dead were found in the adult, larval and pupal stages; one seed was found to contain two larvae. The method which is fast, is applicable to larger, 3-gram quantities of seed. There was no significant difference between the 400-seed and the 3-gram tests.
23432507|Rice seed of the Bluebonnet 50 cultivar were stored under controlled environments of 20C-75% relative humidity (RH), 30C-52% RH, and 30C-75% RH for 9 months. The progress of deterioration in the seed was monitored at monthly intervals in terms of standard germination percentage, germination percentage after accelerated aging (AA), and glutamic acid decarboxylase activity (GADA). GADA was the most sensitive measure of the progress of deterioration in rice seed but was closely followed by germination responses after AA. Deterioration was not reflected in a decrease in germination percentagethe traditional index of the physiological quality of seeduntil it had substantially advanced.
23432463|The official and factor methods of determining pure seed of Bromus inermis Leyss were compared. Each method was evaluated on the percent of pure seed, germination, pure live seed, and time required to complete the purity analysis. The time required to complete the purity analysis by the factor method was significantly less than that for the official procedure. There was a saving of approximately 12 min on a 3.5-g sample.
23432365|'Yorkstar,' a new, high-yielding, soft-white winter wheat released by the Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station, is described as averaging 6.4 inches shorter than 'Genesee.' Coleoptile length of dark-grown seedlings was measured as a possible way of distinguishing Yorkstar from older, taller cultivars. A second approach was to measure height of 5-week-old plants grown under different light conditions. Highly significant differences between Yorkstar and the taller varieties, 'Avon' and Genesee, occurred both in coleoptile length and plant height. Varietal differences were greater if plants were grown with continuous light in a growth chamber than if grown with 12 hours of light or with natural light in the greenhouse during March or April. When grown with continuous light, the tallest plants of Yorkstar were shorter than the shortest plants of Avon or Genesee. The coleoptile method had the advantage of requiring only 10 days to complete, but the longest coleoptiles of Yorkstar were longer than the shortest coleoptiles of Avon or Genesee.
23432547|Seed vigor testing has become an increasingly important component of seed analysis. As recent investigative focus has been directed toward development of vigor tests which reflect seed potential, this review is presented to analyze and discuss various vigor tests. Literature which has been compiled within the last 15 years is reviewed. References showing positive vigor correlations are presented in tabular form: the first according to vigor test and the second according to crop. Vigor tests are divided into three categories (physical, physiological and biochemical) and the merits of each test are discussed.
23432419|A 10-3M concentration of Ethrel3 (2-chloroethylphosphonic acid equivalent) was completely effective in inducing germination of dormant 'NC-13' Virginia type and 'Starr' Spanish type peanut seeds. The treatment consisted of placing the seeds in towels moistened with an aqueous solution of Ethrel until radicle initiation was apparent and then transferring them to towels moistened with water to permit seedling development. A three to four day Ethrel treatment of freshly harvested NC-13 seeds was required for radicle initiation, but after one month of storage a one-day treatment was sufficient. All seeds produced normal seedlings within seven to ten days after radicle initiation. Imbibed seeds of Starr and NC-13 that had not germinated after 10 to 14 days in towels moistened with water were treated with Ethrel. A one-day treatment produced radicle initiation on all except four of the NC-13 seeds which required an additional two to seven day treatment. All seeds that were treated with Ethrel initiated radicles and developed into normal seedlings. Continuous exposure to Ethrel for 14 days produced abnormal seedling development. The recommended procedure is to treat either dry or imbibed seeds with Ethrel until radicle initiation is apparent and then transfer the seeds to towels moistened with water for seedling development.
23432363|The purple moonflower has probably been introduced several times into the United States as an ornamental vine. The reasons that this species became a weed in Lower Mississippi Valley soybean fields are enumerated and discussed. The plant and seed are described. Louisiana, Arkansas, and Mississippi, in declaring this seed a noxious-weed seed, used the binomial Calonyction muricatum (L.) G. Don. The generic status of Calonyction is reviewed and rejected. Calonyction is recognized as a section of the genus Ipomoea. Because Ipomoea muricata (L.) Jacquin, 1803 is a later homonym of I. muricata Cavanilles, 1799, the Jacquin name cannot be used for the purple moonflower. The next legitimate, validly published name is Ipomoea turbinata Lagasca y Segura, 1816.
23432468|White cockle seeds classified by color and shape germinate over a wide range of seed coat colors from a normal black with pale yellowish-gray bloom to orange and with varying shapes from plump to angular and concave. This indicates that these seeds will germinate in the first year after harvest with some degree of imma (immaturity). Seeds which are light orange to white and extremely concave will not germinate.
23432612|The objective of this study was to develop a wetting and drying procedure to stimulate germination and seedling emergence of orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.) seed. Physiological changes associated with the wetting and drying treatments were also studied. The most beneficial results were obtained by treatment at 5C for 3 to 6 days. Moistened and dried seed germinated up to one day earlier and had up to 45% more germination on the 4th day than the control. Radicle growth rate was not affected by any of the treatments. Seedling emergence from soil was more rapid after treatment. The treatments caused no loss of viability during 8 months storage. Compared to water, there appeared to be little benefit from treatment in GA3 and NaCl solutions. Since seedling growth rates were not increased by the treatments, the beneficial results appeared to be related to the effects on germination rate. The small increase in imbibition rate and O2 uptake by treated seeds may account for part of the acelerated germination. The treatments reduced the level of dormancy as indicated by the reduced requirement for alternating temperatures. Wetting and drying treatments were most effective on cultivars and seed lots exhibiting higher levels of dormancy.
23432470|Germ (germination) of antelope bitterbrush seed is slow and erractic due to the dormant nature of the seed. Termination of dorm (dormancy) of antelope bitterbrush was obtained by soaking the seed in solutions of thiourea. Germ response was less sensitive to temperature at high TU (thiourea) concentrations. A lab (laboratory) germ method for antelope bitterbrush seed was developed. Soaking antelope bitterbrush seed in water for 48 hr followed by germ at 10-30 between blotters moistened with 0.2% TU gave the highest germ percentage. Maximum germ was obtained in 14 days vs. old method of 6 weeks of prechilling, followed by 28 days of germ. Prolonged periods at high levels of TU were toxic to antelope bitterbush seed.
23432478|'Bluebonnet-50' rice seeds were harvested daily from three field plantings of 10-day intervals. Mois (moisture) content, seed size, dry wt (weight), germty (germinability) and vigor were measured. Three pronounced physl (physiological) stages of seed development were recognized which correspond to the popularized developmental stages of milk, soft dough, and hard dough. Delayed plantings exerted no noticeable influence on seed quality; however, delayed plantings produced seed which in effect "caught up" in their development and maturity cycles. Seeds from all plantings exhibited maximum germ (germination) and dry wt within 25-30 days after anthesis regardless of planting date. Seeds from all three plantings consistently exhibited the same developmental patterns. As seed mois content gradually decreased from its high of 60%, seed dry wt increased dramatically, after which dry wt remained relatively constant while mois content decreased rapidly to approximately 15%. Seeds from all plantings were capable of germ as early as 10 days after anthesis, and germty increased as the interval from polli (pollination) increased. Seeds from all plantings were capable of complete and sustained germ 20 days after polli. Results indicate that seed dry wt and sdl dry wt provide two consistent and reliable measurements in evaluating rice seed matn (maturation).
23432609|Highly significant correlations between adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content in imbibed seeds and seedling height and weight and seed weight were found in 28 lots of nine cultivars of lettuce. Aging reduced ATP content as well as germination percent and seedling size, and the reductions were also highly correlated. The procedure and principle of ATP determination were outlined, and the possibility of applying the ATP index for a seed vigor test was discussed.
23432493|Bleaching of seed coats and cotyledons occurs in round-seeded field peas (Pisum sativum L.), 'Alaska' type, when subjected to rainy weather during maturation. The bleached seeds were less viable and produced less vigorous seedlings. Their seed coat permeability was increased and sugars, amino acids and carboxylic acids "leaked" into the imbibing media. The loss of seed viability in bleached peas was correlated with increased conductivity of electrolytes in solution, reduced dehydrogenase activity and decreased respiratory rates.
23432608|In crownvetch, Coronilla varia L., mechanical injury to the surface of the seedcoat can be made visible by staining with a 1% aqueous solution of fast green dye. Correlation coefficients between the percentage of seeds from 24 seedlots that did not stain, the percentage of seeds that germinated in the germinator, and the percentage that emerged from sand in the greenhouse and from soil in the field were all highly significant. None of the seeds that stained were hard, i.e., impermeable to water. Of 25,800 seeds from 86 commercial seedlots examined, 31% stained with fast green. Approximately 24% of the individual seeds classified as heavily stained, i.e., those with a significant degree of seedcoat abrasion or injury, were non-viable. While most lots of crownvetch seed require scarification to reduce the content of hard seed to the desired level, it is suggsted that seed quality can be improved by a reduction in the degree of seedcoat abrasion and injury occurred during scarification. For maintenance of viability during long-term storage, it is suggested that crownvetch seed either be stored in the pod or, if hulled, that the seed not be scarified.
23432502|The objectives of this study were to determine the effects of nitrogen fertilization on chemical and morphological characteristics of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seed and the effect of protein level on seed and seedling performance. Seed of different protein contents were obtained by fall and spring applications of various rates of nitrogen to "Nugaines" soft white winter wheat. The increase in protein content from high nitrogen rates was accompanied by a decrease in seed size. The protein increase occurred primarily in the endosperm. Neither protein content of the embryo nor embryo size was affected by the rate of nitrogen application. The rates of water absorption and oxygen consumption of germinating seed increased as a result of the high protein content. The higher protein seed had a faster speed of germination and developed into larger seedlings with a higher dry matter content when grown in nitrogen-deficient soil. Seed with high protein content performed better under stress conditions and especially so when plant growth depended on the nutrients available from the seed. During this period, especially during initiation of germination, temperature influenced the expression of the protein effect. After the seedling was formed, the effect of seed protein content on plant growth was influenced by the amount of soil nitrogen available to the plant.
23432460|Seeds of 32 species from the five genera in the tribe Vicieae frequently found in North American agricultural seed samples, either as crops or weeds, are keyed, described, and illustrated. While seed characteristics are reliable at the species level, they are of limited use at the genus level. Chemical analysis of the seeds may be used to separate the genera. Four of the 12 seed characteristics are quite reliable, viz., hilum shape and position, distance between lens and hilum, and seed coat surface. The least reliable characteristics are seed shape, size, and color. Twenty-eight of the seeds are introduced from Europe and adjacent areas, as crops and weeds. The four native species are considered to be weed seeds in agricultural samples.
23432601|Three dividers (Boerner, Gamet and a soil-sampler) were compared for subsampling seed of certain chaffy grasses. Working samples for the purity analysis were obtained from the following kinds of seed: Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx) Torr., B. gracilis (H.B.K.) Lag., Bromus inermis Leyss., Poa pratensis L., Agropyron desertorum (Fisch.) Schult., and Alopecurus pratensis L. Most of the contaminants were stained with a red dye so that separation from the crop seed was easier. With the exception of the investigation on seed of B. inermis containing multiple florets, the soil-sampler gave the most consistent results by obtaining representative subsamples in comparison to other dividers tested.
23432467|Seeds of three lots of fungicide-treated 'NC-5' peanuts, with initial germ (germination) %ages (percentages) of 92, 81, and 73 were stored for periods of 3, 6, and 9 months. All possible combinations of temps (temperatures) of 13, 18, and 24C and RH (relative humidity) levels of 35 and 93% were used for the storage environments. Samples from each storage unit were divided into two sizes; namely, small seed passing through a perforated metal screen with openings of 20/64  1 inch and large seed retained by the screen. Seeds of each size were then evaluated by the standard germ test, potential germ and levels of deter (deterioration) as revealed by the TZ (tetrazolium) test. At storage in 93% RH, the small immature seed deterd (deteriorated) more rapidly than the large mature seed. When in equilibrium with 93% RH (approximately 13% moisture), enzymes are present in a more active state in immature seed than in mature seed, and therefore resp (respiration) initially takes place at a more rapid rate. Apparently enzymes are activated in mature seed after the moisture content is increased. In the growth test major deter in seed stored at high humidity occurred on surfaces of cotyledons and radicle tips. Such symptoms included small, superficial, brown necrotic areas. With increased storage time, these areas increased in size and penetrated deeply into the cotyledonary tissue. These conditions were associated with a reduction in seedling growth. The %age of abnormal seedlings increased until finally no visible growth occurred in seed stored for 9 months. The TZ test revealed an initial increase in resp as seed deter increased. Undeterd tissues stained carmine red; whereas, deterd tissues stained darker than normal red as deter increased. Dead tissues did not stain. Deter studies were made without regard to differences in germinative and non-germinative seed. Each of four seed parts; namely, root tips, hypocotyls, leaves, and coty (cotyledons) were evaluated with TZ by giving each part a weighted value as to the extent of deter. Deter was linear with time. This linear relationship was observed for all seed parts, lots, and for both large and small seeds.
23432542|Investigations were carried out to evaluate the possible use of the Velvel Roll Seed Separator (VRSS) in purity laboratories. Samples of alfalfa and rapeseed, drawn from seed lots were analyzed by conventional methods and by the VRSS, a mechanically assisted method. Results obtained by using the conventional method of seed analysis as compared to the VRSS method demonstrate that the latter method has a greater degree of accuracy.
23432546|Structures formed by six fungus genera, Anguina nematode galls and solanaceous sclerotic granules are illustrated and described. Drawings of sclerotia sections for two fungi are included to aid identifications. The structures are considered as inert matter in routine seed analyses and their role as possible plant pests is discussed.
23432520|Cultivars of red clover, Trifolium, pratense L., were classified as early (doublecut) or late (single-cut) by growing under controlled environment for four weeks. The maximum differences between the early and late cultivars occurred when the seedlings were grown for two weeks under a 20-hr photoperiod and were transferred to a 16-hr photoperiod for 2 to 4 more weeks.
23432427|Drechslera maydis, the incitant of Southern leaf blight, was detected in corn seeds in our laboratory by the following procedure: Four-hundred randomly-selected corn seeds were rinsed in 1% NaOCl for 1 min and placed on moist blotters in plastic containers equipped with tight lids to prevent loss of moisture. The seeds were incubated at 20 to 25C for 6 to 8 days on a laboratory bench where they were exposed to fluorescent room light for about nine hours daily. Colonies of D. maydis appeared charcoal black to the unaided eye on heavily-infected seeds. Spores appeared large, curved, cigar-shaped, somewhat hyaline to light olivaceous in color at 30 to 90 magnification. A referee test of 10 samples of D. maydis-infected Texas male sterile cytoplasm corn seeds was conducted among 11 members of the Pathology Testing Committee of the Association of Official Seed Analysts, using the above blotter method. Statistical analysis of the data obtained in this test showed good agreement between the results reported by personnel who had prior experience in seed health testing.
23432538|In previous studies, it was shown that freeze-dried, aqueous leachate from seeds of Coronilla varia L. adversely affected the germination and seedling growth of many plant species. Depending upon the test species, phytotoxic effects were noted at leachate dilutions up to 1:10,000 (w/v), the highest tested. The objective of the present study was to isolate and identify the major phytotoxic compounds. Activated charcoal removed the phytotoxic component but dialysis through a cellulose acetate membrane did not. Using two-dimensional paper chromatography, 28 compounds were found in aqueous and alcoholic extracts of crownvetch seed leachate. The major phytotoxic substances were identified by paper chromatographic techniques and confirmed by co-chromatography with known compounds and, in a few cases, gas chromatography and UV spectra. Most were phenolic compounds such as scopoletin (7-hydroxy-6-methoxycoumarin), umbelliferone (7-hydroxy-coumarin), p-coumaric acid (trans-4-hydroxy-cinnamic acid), o-coumaric acid (trans-2-hydroxycinnamic acid), leuco-anthocyanins (flavan-3-4-diols) and catechin compounds (flavan-3-ols). Other compounds identified were: ferulic acid, cyanidin, delphinidin, glucose, galactose, and several flavonoids.
23432497|The test method consists of wet grinding 3.5 lb. (1.6 kg) samples of surface disinfected seed. A dilution series is prepared from a sample of the slurry produced and an aliquot of each dilution is plated on agar plates and incubated for 5 to 10 days. Xanthomonas-like colonies are isolated and phage typed and/or subjected to a host plant infectivity assay. This method can detect one visibly infected seed in 3.5 lb. of seed. Possible use of the test method in regulatory work is discussed.
23432604|Samples of 2 lots of slash pine (Pinus eliottii engelm.), with low viability, were subjected to various lengths of soak (1, 5, 15 and 30 minutes) in solutions of thiram (0.375, 0.75, 1.5, 3.0, and 6.0%) and then tested for germination along with an untreated control. Germination was not affected by treatments. The percentage of moldy seeds, however, decreased with an increase in chemical concentration but showed no relationship to duration of soak over 1 minute. Thus, contrary to initial beliefs, germination was not affected by seed mold.
23432519|The laboratory germination and field emergence response to fungicide seed treatment was studied for soybean seed (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) lots of high, medium and low quality. Three fungicide treatments  (1) planter-box-Captan, (2) planter-box-Thiram and (3) commercially applied Captan (slurry)  were used, and three field plantings were made under varying field conditions. Of the five seed lots compared, only one showed a significant increase in laboratory germination when treated. However, four of the five lots showed significant increases in field emergence following seed treatment. There was no significant difference in field response among the three types of fungicide seed treatments used. The results of the standard germination test overestimated field emergence, with the greatest difference occurring under more adverse field conditions. Seed treatment tended to reduce this difference between standard germination and field emergence for all lots and planting dates. Fungicide seed treatment significantly increased field emergence when: (1) planting was done under poor field conditions, or (2) when marginal quality seed (standard germination of less than 85 percent) was used.
23432518|Embryo dormancy in white spruce [Picea glauca (Moench) Voss] seed is known but not considered in official rules for seed testing. The hypothesis was tested that dormancy in white spruce seed may vary with seed source, and that effective pretreatments and testing methods can overcome the dormancy and increase its maximum germination. Among the 7 pretreatments and methods of testing applied, prechilling for 21 to 28 days resulted in maximum germination in laboratory testing. All seedlots had better nursery germination and seedling survival after prechilling for 21 days.
23432492|Seed of two corn hybrids, Embro 260 (yellow dent) and Poey T.66 (yellow flint) were stored for 18 months under four environments (7C-50% RH, 30C-32% RH, 30C-55% RH and 30C-75% RH) to induce varying degrees of deterioration which were then measured at 2-month intervals in terms of selected physiological responses. Of the parameters measured, first count germination percentages and seedling growth rate appeared to be the most practical, consistent and sensitive measures of the progress of deterioration. The cold test was very effective in evaluating deterioration in its advanced stages whereas GADA decreased more sharply during the early period of storage indicating incipient deterioration. Respiratory activity decreased as storage time increased. Oxygen uptake, however, decreased more consistently than CO2 evolution. Membrane permeability measured in terms of electrical resistance of seed steep water decreased sharply during the first 6 months under 7-50% RH but gradually and more inconsistently under other environments. Germination percentage was the least sensitive index of deterioration.
23432610|When grown on inert media, broad bean seedlings may develop blackened shoots which may completely collapse. In soil and in media prepared with 0.1% calcium nitrate, shoot and root growth were normal. At calcium nitrate concentrations of 0.5% or higher, root stunting occurred.
23432610|When grown on inert media, broad bean seedlings may develop blackened shoots which may completely collapse. In soil and in media prepared with 0.1% calcium nitrate, shoot and root growth were normal. At calcium nitrate concentrations of 0.5% or higher, root stunting occurred.
23432428|Seeds from 25 lots of 1970 production Tms cytoplasm corn seeds were tested on blotters for Drechslera maydis infection, in towels for germinability, and were grown in the greenhouse in steamed or nonsteamed corn-field soil under cool (19-22C) or warm (30-35C) conditions to evaluate stand potential. There was a significant correlation between the number of infected seeds and the number that germinated in towels. Seedling stands for all 25 lots grown under four different conditions in the greenhouse were lower than the germination percentages obtained in towel tests. The results of the towel tests, neverthless, were significantly correlated with the greenhouse results, except for the cool-steamed soil test. However, the mean stand obtained in the cool-nonsteamed soil test more closely agreed with the blotter and towel test means, although in a number of individual lots, good agreement was not obtained between the greenhouse and laboratory tests. It is suggested that a greenhouse temperature, intermediate between those used in this study, may yield stand results that are in better agreement with those obtained in towel tests.
23432614|Seeds of Genista tinctoria L. (dyer's greenweed) were subjected to several treatments to induce germination. Non-treated seeds showed 15% germination when placed on moist filter paper in petri dishes at 21C. Hot water and acid treatments did not greatly improve germination. Pre-chilling seeds at 5C for 90 days increased germination to more than 70%. Results indicated that Genista tinctoria seeds have dormant embryos and that pre-chilling aids in overcoming this dormancy.
23432505|Hybrid grain sorghum seed were aged artificially for 0, 3, 5, 7 and 11 days at 42C and 100% RH, which produced five vigor levels of seed. Among the various laboratory tests performed, standard germination was the least sensitive in discerning the physiological condition of the seed lots. The speed of germination more accurately differentiated the degree of deterioration of the seed lots and was closely correlated to yield. Planting low vigor seed caused reduced plant height, delayed panicle exsertion, and anthesis, less tillering capacity, and reduced yield. These slow growing plants were significantly inferior in panicle exsertion to those produced from more vigorous seeds. Seeds aged for 7 and 11 days had their process of exsertion delayed 2 and 3 days, respectively. Anthesis, consequently, was also significantly retarded. Tillering capacity of plants produced from low vigor seeds was significantly reduced, as well as grain yield. Primary head yield was also significantly reduced 14% for the more deteriorated seeds, and 12% for the mixed treatment, as compared to the control. Yield reductions of 9, 4 and 3% were also detected in seeds aged for 7, 5 and 3 days, respectively, as compared to the control. Seed moisture content was generally higher at harvest time for the lower vigor levels of seed indicating that the process of maturation was delayed due to low vigor. The blended treatment (mixed) was found to be as poor as the most deteriorated seeds in many plant performance characteristics. The drastic reduction in yield in this particular treatment suggests further research using different blending proportions and accurate identification of plants produced from high and low vigor seeds.
23432506|Rate of viability loss varied between seed lots regardless of the storage conditions. At 21C/70% relative humidity (RH), all seed lots lost viability rapidly; Where as at 21C/50% RH, 32C/50% RH, and 10C/70% RH, the rate of viability loss varied greatly among the seed lots. Storage at 10C/50% RH was found to be most practical for high-vigor seeds. Viability of both low-vigor and high-vigor seeds was retained equally well for 8 years at both 4C/35% RH and -1C/40% RH.
23432473|Seeds of 'Amsoy' and 'Hawkeye' soybean cvs (cultivars) were artificially aged by storage in sealed jars at 12.6-12.9% mois (moisture) at 40C. Seeds were removed from storage at intervals and subjected to vigor tests. Viability declined rapidly with aging. Sdl (seedling) length also decreased with deterioration, but hypo (hypocotyl) length of Amsoy was increased by aging up to 16 days. Total dry matter of sdls was not closely correlated with vigor. If the cotys (cotyledons) were excluded, however, the dry matter changes closely followed vigor. With aging, seed permeability and susceptibility to seed-decaying organisms increased.
23432525|Samples of soybeans, Glycine max (L.) Merr., cultivar 'Traverse' having what appeared to be two groups of off-type seed were tested for germination, cultivar purity, and fungal infection. The first group had distinct uniformly black hila and produced seedlings with purple hypocotyls indicating they were of a cultivar other than Traverse. The second group had hila which varied from partly brown to gray to imperfect black. These produced seedlings with green hypocotyls typical of Traverse. These seeds were also heavily infected with fungi, particularly Alternaria alternata. Hila discoloration was probably caused by this infection. Seeds with discolored hila had a lower germination percentage than seeds with yellow or distinct black hila. Seeds with discolored hila due to fungal infection may be difficult to distinguish by visual examination from those of cultivars with brown, gray or imperfect black hila.
23432356|The optimum germination condition for crambe seed (Crambe abyssinica Hochst. ex. R. E. Fries) was determined using six lots representing a cross-section of crambe germplasm. Seedling evaluations were made when radicles attained a length of 1.5 cm. Rolled towels as a substratum produced the best moisture conditions, thereby averting excess abnormal seedlings. These abnormal seedlings were probably induced by uneven moisture absorption by emerging radicles. In rolled towels, final germination percentages were the same at temperatures of 20, 25 and 20-30 C although germination proceeded faster at 25 C. Light was detrimental in rolled towel tests. When blue blotters in clear plastic boxes were used as substratum, light retarded germination of crambe seeds at all temperatures and increased the incidence of induced abnormal seedlings. In boxes with blotters, 20 C was the most favorable germination temperature followed by 25 C, then 20-30 C. Recommend: Crambe seed be germinated at 25 C dark in rolled towels moistened with tap water. A preliminary count must be made at 3 days with the final count at 7 days.
23432361|Endogenous rhythms exist in plants as evidenced by numerous cyclic phenomena and they are considered to be time measurements. These rhythms occur in seeds too; germination rhythms were observed in Kentucky bluegrass cultivars, 'Cougar' and 'Newport.' Oscillations occurred at 2 to 4 months after harvest, and again at 6 to 7 months, being unaffected by maturity or storage conditions. These phenomena are apparently related to after-ripening and may be encountered during testing of freshly harvested grass seed.
23432474|Seeds of soybean cvs (cultivars) 'Amsoy', and 'Hawkeye', stored at 12.6-12.9% moisture and at 40C lost viability rapidly. Sdl (seedling) resp (respiration) rates also decreased with storage but increased with time after planting. A highly significant correlation coefficient of 0.80 was obtained between resp of sdls (planted for 36 hr) and germ (germination) %age (percentage). The sugars and nitrogen fractions decreased with storage. The total sugar content of seed leachates increased with aging. GADA (Glutamic acid decarboxylase activity) was not closely correlated with seed age and germ. The dehydrogenase activity of the embryonic axes was more closely related than that of the coty (cotyledon) or the entire seed to the quality of the seeds.
23432596|Except when it is possible to examine entire seed lots for noxious weed seed content, the chance always exists that a lot containing noxious weed seeds will go undetected. The authors have described the situation in mathematical symbolism. A method is outlined for calculating the probability that a sample from a lot will contain no noxious weed seeds even though the lot is known to contain a low level of contamination. Results of calculations have been presented so that they may serve as a "sober" reminder of the extent to which the declaration can be wrong when a lot is declared "noxious-free."
23432466|Efficiency and accuracy of embryo preparation and evaluation require the focusing of suitable attention upon acceptable time saving practices. Suggestions are given concerning the use and placements of suitable containers, seed arrangement and orientation, moistening, cutting and staining techniques, etc.
23432366|Investigations were carried out to develop methods to identify cultivars of barley and wheat at the seedling stage by growing them on media lacking plant nutrients and under controlled environments. The useful characteristics studied for the identification of wheat cultivars were coleoptile colour, leaf colour and colour of the roots. Comparisons were made between the results of the coleoptile test and the results of a field plot assessment and it was confirmed that 'Genesee' and 'Talbot' could be separated at the seedling stage. Barley cultivars were distinguished on the basis of the leaf sheath colour at the seedling stage. The comparison between the identification of the cultivar at the seedling stage and the varietal assessment at the mature plant stage confirmed that 'Herta' barley can be distinguished from 'Keystone' by leaf sheath colour.
23432420|Rate of respiration, glutamic acid decarboxylase, dehydrogenase and catalase activity were measured in small, medium and large seed of Spanish peanuts. Rate of respiration, O2 consumption and enzymatic activity increased as seed size increased. The relatively high activity of the small seed as compared to large seed suggests immaturity.
23432495|Acid delinted seed of the Stoneville 7A and Stoneville 213 varieties of cotton were separated into four seed density classes with a gravity separator. The quality of seed from the four density classes and an ungraded control was compared in laboratory and field performance tests. Germination, field emergence, rate of emergence and seedling dry weight (3 wks.) generally increased as bulk density of the seed increased. Lint yield also increased as bulk density of the seed planted increased although plant populations were equal for all seed density grades. Yields from plots planted with high density seed were significantly higher than those planted with low density seed but not higher than the yields of plots planted with ungraded seed.
23432498|Seeds of several cantaloupe (Cucumis melo) cultivars retained essentially their full initial germination during 12 years of storage under all conditions tested. However, germination of seeds of other cultivars declined somewhat after 7 years, and very few seeds germinated after 12 years under the higher temperatures. Of the three storage conditions used (32C/15% relative humidity (RH), 21C/30% RH, and 10C/60% RH), 10C/60% RH was most satisfactory for storage of cantaloupe seeds over a 12-year period. Because only one sample of seed of each cultivar was included in this study, it is possible that all or some of the apparent differences in keeping quality between cultivars are sample differences rather than true cultivar differences.
23432602|AOSA rules do not include methods for testing germination of American sycamore (Platanus occidentalis L.), but seeds from southern sources can easily be tested on blotters at alternating temperatures of 20-30C. Light during the 8 hrs at 30 is beneficial. No prechilling is necessary, and germination is complete in 14 days.
23432494|The accuracy of three dividers (large Boerner, Gamet and medium soil sampler) were compared using a synthetic pasture seed mixture of the following components: Bromus inermis Leyss., Festuca arundinacea Schreb., Dactylis glomerata L., Trifolium hybridum L., and inert material. The most consistent results were obtained with the Gamet divider in comparison to the other dividers tested.
23432426|The exposure of mature soybean seed (Glycine max L.) to alternate drying and wetting under field conditions results in reduced quality. Mechanisms by which the damage occurs and the nature of the damage, however, have been imperfectly understood. New and informative insights concerning the nature of weather damage are gradually being brought into focus by use of a vital stain, tetrazolium, for identifying the presence, location, and nature of normal, weak, and dead tissues. The objective of this paper is to present some of these insights. The studies involved samples from several hundred lots of machine and hand harvested seed of commonly grown varieties within North Carolina and surrounding states. The study extended over a period of more than 15 years. The samples were exposed to variable weather and storage conditions for different periods of time. Many of the samples were altered under both field and laboratory conditions. Macroscopic and microscopic observations were made of individual seed structures. The studies revealed that initial embryo destruction was largely seed coat related and caused by rapid and differential absorption of water by localized tissues. The temporary expansion and folding of seed coats upon moistening, and the early contact of the moist folds with dry embryo tissues were found to be responsible for much of the localization of tissue destruction. Natural seed coat openings and weather-induced coat fissures were also involved. Narrow spaces between cotyledons, and between cotyledons and radicles likewise influenced the nature of water movement and tissue disturbances. Accelerated, progressive tissue disturbance was commonly found to advance within and outward from the initially disturbed areas. With time the areas of disturbance tended to advance into tissues that were vital for production of normal seedlings thus resulting in loss of germination by non-pathogenic and pathogenic action.
23432607|The relationship between rapidity of imbibition (the quick swell test) and potential germination was studied. Seeds of Penngift crownvetch, Coronilla varia L., were soaked in water for periods ranging from 1 to 144 hours and the seeds classified as either swelled (imbibed) or non-swelled. Results from germination tests indicated that the rapidity of swelling was significantly associated with seed viability. As the time to imbibe water and swell increased, the percentage of seeds that either decayed or produced abnormal seedlings decreased. For 201 commercial lots of Penngift crownvetch, 30% of the seeds tested swelled in 1 hour or less. Mean germination of the 201 lots was 72% (49% normal seedlings and 23% hard seed). A regression equation was derived to predict percentage germination and hard seed content from results of a 1-hour quick swell test.
23432472|Investigations were conducted to relate the physical characteristics of cottonseed to germ (germination), subsequent plant growth, and final plant development. The effects of length, diam (diameter), wt, volume, and dens (density) on the seed's ability to germinate and grow were determined. Procedures for a nondestructive measurement of a single seed's volume and density were developed. Visual germ cells also were developed to observe the germ at 24-hr intervals without losing the identity of individual seeds and without disturbing the young sdls (seedlings). The influence of seed density on germ was highly significant in the individual seed studies. Seed wt apparently had the most influence on sdl growth. Seed dens had such a strong influence on the earliness of germ that it overshadowed the influence of seed wt on growth in a combined analysis of germ and growth response. Design of cottonseed selection equipment should be based on dens. The level of seed dens to be culled will depend on the cv (cultivar) deterioration level of the seed lot, and the economics of supply and demand. Additional separation should be made on the basis of seed wt to cull out the light seed.
23432517|Mature seed on plants in adjacent fields of 'Dare' (maturity group V) and 'Lee 68' (maturity group VI) cultivars of soybeans were subjected to three environments to determine the cumulative effects of slightly different temperatures and relative humidities upon the rate and extent of field deterioration under warm, humid conditions. Treatments were initiated when seed moisture first dropped to 30% (physiological maturity) and continued until frost. For both cultivars, seed subjected to ambient environmental conditions had declined significantly in germination by four weeks after physiological maturity. Seed harvested from plots shaded to remove 50% of the incident sunlight deteriorated at a much slower rate than those from the unshaded plots. Five weeks after physiological maturity, germinations of seed produced under shade were 86 and 89% while those from the ambient plots were 55 and 75% for the Dare and Lee 68 cultivars, respectively. These differences were attributed to a more stable mircoenvironment surrounding the shaded plants. Possible means of reducing the rate of deterioration are considered.
23432526|Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) seeds, dried to approximately 4 and 7% moisture content, were packaged in Mylar/polyethylene; Acetate/foil/heat-seal coating; kraft/polyethylene/foil/polyethylene; Saran; Aclar; metalized polyester; and paper containers, and stored under the following temperatures (C) and relative humidities (RH): 32/90; 32/70; 21/90; 21/70; 10/90; 10/70; as well as in a water-curtain germinator operated at a night-to-day (15 hr-9 hr) temperature alternation of 20 to 30 C and 95 to 100% RH; and also with a biweekly rotation between the germinator and 4/35. Materials that provided good moisture protection extended the life of seeds stored under unfavorable conditions. At favorable storage conditions, good moisture protection had less effect on seed longevity. Materials that contained a foil in their construction provided better moisture and germination protection than did materials without a foil.
23432504|Differences in percent germination, percent filled, and weights of true mountainmahogany achenes collected on four mountain soils were highly significant (p=.01). Germination, fill and weight were greater, also at the .01 level, for achenes from northwest aspects than for achenes from southwest aspects. Achenes with highest germination were from plants on northwest aspects in the least fertile soil, which had the lowest natural population of mahogany. Contrastingly, achenes with lowest germination were from southwest aspects on the most fertile soil, where mahogany plants were most abundant. Reasons for this apparent contradiction are explored. Microenvironmental factors are important in determining mountainmahogany achene viability.
23432527|Each of four spruce species produced maximum germination on cellulose paper containing moisture levels of 23 to 88% of its water holding capacity. Only the lowest water level tested (10%) reduced germination.
23432539|Five samples each of alsike, red and white clover seed from three states, Idaho, Oregon, and Wisconsin, were separated individually into four and five (red clover) color classes. Data were obtained on percentage of the color classes in the sample, as well as germination, hard seed and average seed weight. The darker colors were the most numerous in alsike clover, intermediate colors in red clover and light colors in white clover. The darker colored seeds were heaviest in all three kinds, black in alsike, purple in red clover and red in white clover. Generally color class did not affect germination significantly. The germination plus hard seed content was highest in the yellow seeds of red and white clover. Green alsike and red clover seeds included more hard seeds and accordingly reduced immediate germination. Hard seed content was conspicuously higher in the Oregon samples of all three kinds of clover.
23432425|Geranium seed of several types, varieties and mixtures have been tested for germination in the laboratory for many years and found to have varying degrees of hardseededness. However, the introduction of F1 hybrid Carefree and New Era geranium stocks have led to new problems within the last five years for the seed dealer, seed analyst, greenhouse grower and even the home gardener who may purchase packet seed. Geranium seed can be treated with concentrated sulfuric acid to produce rapid, maximum germination of all viable seed within 7-14 days. Optimum treatment durations are very critical and depend on the degree of hardseededness and whether the seed has been previously dehulled. Although the optimum duration of acid treatment at room temperature varies from 4 to 12 minutes for all lots tested, 5-8 minutes are a safer range for unknown dehulled lots.
23432550|Obtaining adequate and uniform stands of crops is often a serious problem. A study was conducted to determine the effects of combining seed and soil treatments to improve the oxygen status of germinating seeds and reduce the mechanical resistance of soil crusts. Navy bean, soybean, and sugar beet seeds were soaked in hydrogen peroxide, and soils were banded with Krilium (vinyl acetate maleic anhydride), H3PO4, butadiene/styrene copolymerisate, and polyvinyl propionate. Laboratory, greenhouse and field studies were used to evaluate plant emergence, soil crust resistance, and yields. Hydrogen peroxide improved germination unless the seeds were dried before planting. Drying produced checked seed coats of soybeans resulting in reduced germination and emergence. Krilium was the superior anticrusting compound for the soil types and crops of this study. Banding Krilium on a Parkhill loam soil resulted in a 45% reduction in crust resistance and 200% increase in sugarbeet emergence and 33% in navy bean emergence. Krilium and H3PO4 banding also appeared to improve sugarbeet yields.
23432482|Germ (germination) of 1969 Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) seed conducted 1, 4 and 9 months after harvest showed 'Newport' seed to be more dormant than 'Cougar' seed. Imbi (imbibition) of potassium nitrate solution significantly increased Newport seed germ compared to water but had no effect on Cougar seed germ. Seed from 1965 and 1968 showed little dorm (dormancy) or differences in germ between the two cvs (cultivars). Resp (respiration) rates for these seed imbibed in KNO3 or water showed greater 02 uptake for Cougar seed compared to Newport. Seed of both cvs from 1965 and 1968 absorbed 02 more rapidly than 1969 seed. Resp of all Cougar seed increased rapidly after imbi, then increased at slower rates for remainder of the tests. Newport seed showed little response to KNO3 and resp decreased after the initial 4-day rise. Results indicate inherent superior sdl (seedling) vigor for Cougar over Newport and little influence of KNO3 on resp rates of freshly harvested seed. KNO3 does not overcome dorm per se but apparently acts in conjunction with light and alternating temp (temperature) treatments to increase germ rates. Nondormant Cougar seed treated with KNO3 had slightly higher resp rates but Newport seed gave erratic responses. The effects of KNO3 on seed metabolic processes during germ and sdl growth is not clear. KNO3 may enhance or substitute for gibberellic acid induction of  amylase synthesis during early phase of germ.
23432610|When grown on inert media, broad bean seedlings may develop blackened shoots which may completely collapse. In soil and in media prepared with 0.1% calcium nitrate, shoot and root growth were normal. At calcium nitrate concentrations of 0.5% or higher, root stunting occurred.
23432610|When grown on inert media, broad bean seedlings may develop blackened shoots which may completely collapse. In soil and in media prepared with 0.1% calcium nitrate, shoot and root growth were normal. At calcium nitrate concentrations of 0.5% or higher, root stunting occurred.
