10.2307/3687210|The Franciscan rocks on which much of greater San Francisco, California, is built, have been the subject of geologic investigation and speculation for a century. Recent investigations by Hs and colleagues have indicated that type Franciscan rocks are mlanges, consisting of allochthonous blocks of diverse sedimentary units mixed by complex tectonic activity. Establishment of the original stratigraphic positions of the blocks has been hampered both by disruption of original continuity and scarcity of fossils. Twelve samples of somewhat metamorphosed shales and graywacke-siltstones provided by Hs from critical parts of his proposed tectonic plates were investigated for palynomorphs. Poorly preserved plant microfossils were obtained from two siltstone samples. The floras obtained show that one of the subunits investigated is Late Cretaceous in age. Another unit, for which an age of Late Jurassic has previously been suggested on rare occurrences of invertebrates, is shown on the basis of palynomorphs to be Late Jurassic to Early Cretaceous. This study of Franciscan mlanges illustrates the application of palynological methods to critical rock units in which palynomorphs are poorly preserved.
10.2307/3687289|The most commonly encountered measure of absolute pollen frequency (APF), grains per cubic centimeter of sediment, is highly dependent both on sediment density and lithology, as well as upon the sampling technique. This paper presents the results of a study designed to assess the relative contributions to the errors inherent in APF of sampling and variations in sediment density and lithology. A wide range of sediments was made up in the laboratory to simulate the spectrum of natural pollen-bearing sediments with regard to sediment mineralogy, pH, hydration, and water content. They were sampled with several tools to determine (1) the precision with which different tools can be used to sample pollen-bearing sediments, and (2) the repeatability of sampling in different lithologies. This study suggests (1) that some sampling techniques are clearly superior to others, (2) that operator errors and pH differences may bias all APF determinations, and (3) that the water content of the sediment is of paramount importance with regard to the precision with which a sediment can be sampled and to the validity of differing types of standardization of APF; this owes mainly to the hydration of organics and clay minerals. When APF can be expressed in "grains per unit area per unit time," these factors may contribute considerable error to an APF measurement. When time-stratigraphic control is not sufficient to allow APF to be expressed in these terms, expression of APF in "grains per unit volume" becomes almost meaningless. "Grains per unit dry weight" is far superior, both in theory and in practice.
10.2307/3687212|Triassic red beds in England contain rare horizons which have yielded rich and varied palynofloras. Assemblages ranging in age from late Scythian to Rhaetian are described from surface exposures in the South-West and Midlands of England. Five major palynofloral suites of late Scythian-early Anisian, Ladinian, early Carnian, late Carnian and Rhaetian ages are annotated and may be compared with assemblages recorded from the North Sea Basin and Northwest Europe. The "Waterstones" contain a number of palyniferous sections which have yielded assemblages typified by the association of species of the bisaccate genera Alisporites, Angustisulcites, Illinites, Triadispora and Voltziaceaesporites and considered to be of late Scythian-early Anisian age. The Keuper Marl facies, although generally barren, has yielded assemblages ranging in age from Ladinian to Norian and characterized by distinctive palynofloras numerically dominated by bisaccate and asaccate grains with less abundant cryptogam spores. Rhaetian sections are commonly palyniferous, with assemblages composed of stratigraphically restricted and morphologically distinctive genera, including Classopollis, Limbosporites, Ovalipollis, Perinosporites, Rhaetipollis, Rhaetogonyaulax, Ricciisporites and Zebrasporites. The conspicuous uniformity in specific content of palynofloras from English and continental European Triassic sections suggests that Triassic standing floras were widespread and locally persistent and that their impersistent representation in the fossil record was controlled by inimical depositional environments.
10.2307/3687259|Abundant and varied microplankton populations described by Manum from Graham Island and by Manum and Cookson from Graham and Ellef Ringnes islands of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago were assigned by those authors to the Hassel Formation of upper Albian or lower Cenomanian age. Present studies indicate that the assemblages treated by Manum and Cookson were from the Kanguk Formation, rather than the Hassel Formation, with ranges from lower Campanian to upper Cenomanian. Evidence for this discrepancy is presented from investigations of the Kanguk and Hassel formations at several Arctic localities.
10.2307/3687221|A sequence of angiosperm pollen from the subsurface of southeastern Alberta can be grouped into six distinct palynofloral suites that span Albian to Campanian age strata. These angiosperm pollen species were a part of a terrestrial flora that often was dominated by pteridophyte and gymnosperm taxa. Marine phytoplankton is abundant throughout most of the interval studied, and it provides accurate dating of certain evolutionary or migrational events of the terrestrial flora. The proposed botanical relationships suggest that at least 60% of the total angiosperm flora is represented by taxa whose extant counterparts are distributed in tropical to subtropical regions of the world. Certain evolutionary trends, including aperture type and major exine morphology, suggest that by Middle Campanian time, angiosperm pollen had evolved most of the principal aperture configurations and surface features presently observed in extant angiosperm pollen. These two trends are consistent and distinct enough to establish an evolutionary sequence of pollen morphology for western Canadian Cretaceous sediments.
10.2307/3687299|During the past fifty years the scope of Quaternary palynology has widened appreciably. Many other kinds of microfossils besides pollen and spores are included in the field of study. The use of modern data processing methods and the scanning electron microscope are recent additions to the "tool box" of palynology. Research on autofluorescence of fossil pollen is one of several new techniques available to a palynologist concerned with redeposition of pollen. Quaternary palynology is being used in geological studies to identify and describe different facies in sedimentary basins in terms of palynomorph assemblages and sedimentological characteristics. These Quaternary models are then used in the interpretation of pre-Quaternary environments. There exist serious deficiencies, however, with regard to our current knowledge of palynomorph morphology and their dispersal, deposition, and preservation. The relationships between fossil palynomorph assemblages and the parent populations which produced them are insufficiently known. The true potential of Quaternary palynology is rather evident but cannot be fully utilized until the necessary information on basic palynology is forthcoming. It should be realized that long-term, detailed studies must be undertaken, instead of seeking "instant" answers to our problems in Quaternary palynology.
10.2307/3687238|At least 12 species of Aquilapollenites (sensu lato) and many other pollen and spore species, well known from the Upper Cretaceous Lance and Hell Creek Formations of the Rocky Mountain region, occur in the Maestrichtian Kemp Clay and Danian Kincaid Formation near Waco, Texas. The specimens in the Paleocene sediments appear to represent extensive reworking from the underlying Cretaceous. Specimens of Aquilapollenites also occur rarely in Maestrichtian deposits of the Atlantic Coastal Plain in Maryland (Monmouth Group) and New Jersey (Red Bank Formation). These occurrences mark both southward and eastward extensions of the known North American range of the genus and, in the case of the Texas locality, of many of the species typically associated with it elsewhere.
10.2307/3687254|Schizosporis reticulatus Cookson and Dettman 1959, type species of its genus, is a distinctive palynomorph of uncertain affinity that has been found in deposits ranging in age from Neocomian to Cenomanian-Turonian (one possible Maastrichtian occurrence) from Australia, North America, and Europe. Although usually an uncommon fossil, numerous specimens from the nonmarine Lower Cretaceous Arundel Clay (Potomac Group, Maryland) have permitted a morphological analysis using light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and serial thin sections. Schizosporis reticulatus is generally discoidal to lenticular in shape. It has a complex wall that consists of a dense inner portion and an outer portion that is composed of a layer of closely packed cell-like units, some or all of which may open to the exterior through an operculate pore. Varied conditions of the inner wall suggest a possible developmental sequence from a discoidal form with a single inner wall layer and no internal cavity, to a lenticular form with a split inner wall and an inflated internal cavity, to a specimen divided in half by an equatorial suture. Location of protoplasm, manner of growth, function of the structure, and biological affinity remain uncertain. The abundance of S. reticulatus in the Arundel Clay and its typical infrequency in marine deposits suggest a freshwater habitat. Other species that have been referred to Schizosporis also comprise lenticular palynomorphs with an equatorial suture, but the absence of the distinctive wall that characterizes S. reticulatus suggests that they are fundamentally different in organization and affinity, and they are therefore placed in a new genus, Schizophacus.
10.2307/3687303|Miospore associations from the East Mountain Shale (Late Desmoinesian), the Salesville Shale, and the Keechi Creek Shale (Missourian) of the Upper Pennsylvanian in north-central Texas are compared with Pennsylvanian assemblages from Europe and Canada. The Salesville Shale, which is generally regarded as the earliest Missourian in north-central Texas, has been assigned to the Late Desmoinesian Age. It is correlated with the VB2 spore division of eastern Canada, the S4 spore zone of England and Wales, and spore zone IIB of the Saar. Nine new species are described for Punctatisporites, trilites, Acanthotriletes, Neoraistrickia, Mooreisporites, Cristatisporites, Radiizonates, Columnisporites and Potonieisporites, and two new combinations are proposed for Gravisporites and Cordaitina.
10.2307/3687279|A clay deposit in the Tecovas formation, an Upper Triassic unit in the Texas panhandle, has yielded abundant pollen of gymnospermous affinity. Most abundant is the bisaccate form Vitreisporites (Caytonipollenites). The remainder of the assemblage is comprised mostly of other bisaccate genera. In contrast to most other Triassic assemblages, striate grains have not been found. Another anomaly exists in that spores and asaccate grains constitute a relatively minor percentage of the microflora. Such an assemblage is most indicative of an offshore environment of deposition. The probably allocthonous nature of some lignite associated with the clay, as well as the presence of fresh water pelecypod remains throughout the formation, tend to corroborate this conclusion.
10.2307/3687209|All areas of paleontology are experiencing a rapid rise in the use of statistical treatments of data, and palynology is no exception. The range of these treatments open to palynologists is great; however all involve (1) putting the data into a format wherein it can be analyzed statistically, (2) performing the statistical test, and (3) transforming the numerical results of the test into a format from which interpretation can be made. It should be possible to choose approaches at all three of these stages which maximize the information which can be obtained, while taking into consideration the special problems inherent in palynology, such as the extreme transportability of palynomorphs and the differential production of pollen and spores by different species of plants. This study compares several different statistical approaches to a specific palynological problem drawn from the Permian of Oklahoma, pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of the various methods. It suggests that the most meaningful and general method of forming recurrent groups with stratigraphic or paleoecological significance, is through the use of a nonparametric rank statistic followed by a ramifying linkage cluster analysis, although statistical tests based on counts such as product-moment correlation and interpretive techniques such as factor analysis may be very useful under certain circumstances.
10.2307/3687275|A study of quantitative variations in some Lower Tertiary dinoflagellate and acritarch assemblages has demonstrated the existence of four distinct associations. Each association is characterized by the presence of species belonging to one of four genera. In each sample, any one of these four associations is dominant. The distribution of the associations can usually be related to lithology. From this it is inferred that the controlling factors are ecologic.
10.2307/3687288|Scolecodonts, the acid-resistant cuticulinous jaws of polychaete annelids, occur commonly in Paleozoic rocks; a more scattered Mesozoic distribution links the fossil forms with Recent species. Although fundamentally different from conodonts, scolecodonts share the same nomenclatural difficulties caused by their usual preservation as dispersed jaws and the rarity of natural assemblages. (The International Code of Zoological Nomenclature does not recognize "parataxa," i.e., form- or organ-taxa). Few authors have described natural assemblages, mostly from Ordovician and Permian strata. Here some 30 jaws in organic association from Devonian strata of western Canada are described. Those from palynological preparations are seen in transmitted light; the others are from picked micropaleontological residues and observed with a SEM. Stereopairs of SEM photomicrographs demonstrate the spatial relationships of the separate jaws within an apparatus. Criteria for speciating dispersed jaws are discussed, and their potential for stratigraphic application is evaluated.
10.2307/3687245|Complete details are given of a method for preparing small numbers of modern or fossil pollens and spores by the critical point drying method of Cohen, Marlow, and Garner (1968) for examination with the scanning electron microscope (SEM). Samples from seven modern genera were prepared and scanning micrographs illustrating results from five of these are presented. Results show that genera react variously to drying by evaporation. By comparing evaporative dried examples with critical point dried examples of the same genus, the extent of artifact drying can be noted. The morphologies of some are found not to be affected by the surface tension effects of evaporation; others show distortions that may prove, in much more extensive work, to be a general index of their structure. Distortions were classified into three categories: (1) changes in the overall size (i.e., volume) of the grain; (2) changes in the relationships and losses of surface ornamentation; and (3) changes in the relationships and losses of unique structures of the grain type. Freeze drying for the purposes of this work was not included, as other work (Wickham and Worthen, 1972) indicated that critical point drying was an improvement over freeze drying in tissues, and previous experiences of the authors included several serious technical problems specific to freezing. The two main values of this method are: (1) Small quantities of rare modern or fossil pollens and spores can be prepared for SEM without specimen loss, and drying distortions can be minimized. (2) Such specimens can be compared to evaporative dried modern examples with a view to possible correlations in the fossil record.
10.2307/3687256|Based on sixty Holocene sections, the most important North American pollen types are: Pinus, Picea, Ephedra, Tsuga canadensis-heterophylla, Pseudotsuga-Larix, Juniperus-Taxodium, Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Betula, Carya, Alnus, Ulmus, Chenopodiineae, Liquidambar, Acer, Quercus, Nyssa, Fagus, Artemisia, and Ambrosia. The distribution of these taxa is employed to describe six floristic provinces-the Boreal, Lakes, Southeast, Pacific, Plains, and Mountain provinces. These provinces are present during earlier Pleistocene interglacial times, but they are not apparent in glacial-age pollen assemblages, which are dominated by conifers and herbs.
10.2307/3687298|Chitinozoans are bottle-shaped microfossils with hollow, organic-walled tests. They thrived during the Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian periods and were exclusively marine. Tests occur singly, joined together in chains, and in clusters within organic cocoons; single tests result from the dissociation of tests in chains, and the breakup of cocoons. Chitinozoans may represent only parts of life cycles having planktonic and benthonic stages. Several conflicting opinions about chitinozoan affinities have been published yet the group's systematic position remains unknown; traditional placement of the Chitinozoa somewhere within the Protozoa has been challenged recently, and the case persuasively argued that chitinozoans may be metazoan eggs or egg capsules. The hypothesis is ventured here that chitinozoans are like reproductive bodies of graptolites. The usefulness of chitinozoans in stratigraphy is enhanced by their rapid evolution, wide diversity of form, and the short vertical ranges of many species. The lateral distributions of species are apparently independent of minor facies changes and many species are known from a wide variety of depositional environments. Numerous species are widely distributed on one or both sides of the North Atlantic and their dispersal across large areas of North America and northern Europe apparently was fairly rapid.
10.2307/3687223|The Upper Cretaceous species originally named Scriniodinium eurypylum by Manum and Cookson (1964) is shown to possess a type of archeopyle and other features that require removal from Scriniodinium Klement. The species is redescribed and is transferred to Palaeoperidinium Deflandre. Other species with similar archeopyles are discussed and illustrated: Palaeoperidinium basilium (Drugg) Drugg and a closely similar, unnamed species from the Maastrichtian-Danian (marine), Palaeoperidinium hansonianum (Traverse) Lentin and Williams from the Oligocene (freshwater), and Peridinium limbatum (Stokes) Lemmermann from the Holocene (freshwater). Contrasts with the archeopyle in another group of Cretaceous marine species, one of which has been misidentified as Scriniodinium eurypylum, are pointed out.
10.2307/3687305|Classical paleobotanical theory separates the floras of the Permian Period into four distinctive provinces: (1) the Gondwanian; (2) the Angaran; (3) the Cathaysian; and (4) the Euramerican. These floras are based on the stem and leaf remains which are the chief preservable macroscopic parts of plants. However, microscopic plant parts (miospores, megaspores, cuticles) can aid greatly in studying the development and differentiation of the Permian floras. Ideally, every type of plant remain should be considered when synthesizing an ancient flora. Palynology can aid materially in the study of the Permian paleobotanical provinces. Not only may it provide a good stratigraphic zonation at both the local and interregional level but it also allows the floral characteristics to be determined in sediments which contain no macroscopic plants. Already it is apparent from palynologic analysis that the Laurasian and Gondwanian landmasses can be separated one from the other and that India is paleobotanically part of the Gondwanian landmass (although not necessarily physically part of it). Further, it is becoming clear that the Permian Period was characterized by three major floral complexes: 1) a Sakmarian-Artinskian miospore complex, 2) a Kungurian-Kazanian miospore complex, and 3) a Tatarian miospore complex. In this report the main palynologic characteristics of the four classical paleobotanic provinces are outlined for the first time. The results confirm the conclusions derived from studies of macroscopic Permian plants.
10.2307/3687262|Strata above and below the Jurassic-Cretaceous boundary in the Canadian Arctic yield ammonite and pelecypod faunas that, in many instances, permit assignment to chronostratigraphic stages with some precision. These same strata contain varied dinoflagellate assemblages that may be correlated with the chronostratigraphic stages. Assemblage zones, each named for a characteristic included taxon, are suggested for this sequence. By means of this zonation, correlation may be carried onto the mainland of northern Canada and southward into the Western Canada Basin.
10.2307/3687253|As a consequence of advances in knowledge of the morphology and relationships of dinoflagellate cysts and acritarchs and increasing sophistication in optical equipment, earlier descriptions of dinoflagellate cysts and acritarchs are in general obsolete; redescriptions are necessary to furnish fuller morphological information. In this paper are given the results of a reexamination of holotypes or figured specimens of 26 species of dinoflagellate cysts and 3 species of acritarchs, all from the Middle to Upper Jurassic (lower Callovian to Kimmeridgian) of England. The new species Gonyaulacysta setcheyensis and the new combination Acanthaulax downiei (Sarjeant) are proposed; two species, Heslertonia teichophera (Sarjeant) and Meiourogonyaulax? acanthosphaera (Sarjeant), are generically reassigned and emended; and the diagnosis of Leptodinium mosaicum (Downie) is emended. It is demonstrated that the genera Netrelytron Sarjeant and Paranetrelytron Sarjeant do indeed possess an endoblast and are thus distinct from the morphologically similar genera Pareodinia Deflandre and Kalyptea Cookson and Eisenack. The acritarch genus Pterospermella Eisenack, erected to accommodate species that were formerly included in Pterospermopsis W. Wetzel, is shown to be nomenclaturally superfluous; Baltisphaeridium pilosum var. longispinosum Sarjeant is rejected as a junior synonym of Prolixosphaeridium granulosum Deflandre. New illustrations of most of the species and forms discussed are presented.
10.2307/3687203|The age of the Hawks Crag Breccia, previously thought to be Late Jurassic or older, is shown to be Late Albian by comparison of its spore-pollen flora with dated Jurassic and Cretaceous assemblages in New Zealand and Australia. This age finally resolves the conflict between the presence of Cretaceous granite boulders in a supposedly Jurassic breccia. The revised age allows the tectonic evolution of the southwest Pacific to be more clearly resolved, into the following events: (1) development of volcanic arc above interface between converging Gondwana and ancient Pacific plates, with eugeosyncline and miogeosyncline on Pacific side; (2) start of Rangitata Orogeny in late Jurassic and earliest Cretaceous with emergence of eugeosyncline, transformation of outer "miogeosyncline" into eugeosyncline with new volcanic arc; (3) granitization and thrusting of Gondwana foreland; (4) deep synclinal folding of volcanic arc and eugeosyncline; (5) initial transaxial thrusting of outer geosyncline, followed by paraxial close folding; (6) swinging of all these structures from initial east-west into north-northeast and south-southwest direction, with crowding of folds, and development of mylonite bands along stretched limb; (7) elevation of mountains, especially along stretched limb, and deposition of terrestrial formations such as Hawks Crag Breccia; (8) relaxation of stress, intrusion of mafic igneous rock, widespread gradual submergence spreading from Cretaceous geosyncline, closure of Cretaceous volcanic arc; (9) new break along recurved arc along transform "Alpine" Fault in middle-late Tertiary.
10.2307/3687281|Most sedimentary rocks contain dispersed solid organic grains of fine sand or silt size. These generally amount to a fraction of 1% of the rock mass, but may be concentrated after macerating the rock with acids. Study by transmitted or reflected light microscopy shows that these grains are largely plant fragments deposited like other grains of the rock; therefore they are termed phytoclasts. Phytoclasts are altered chemically and physically when exposed to increased temperature. This alteration is similar for phytoclasts from rocks near volcanic dikes, from laboratory bombs, from deep wells, and from strata formerly deeply buried. The degree of alteration is quantified best by measuring reflectance of selected phytoclasts-which increases with temperature increase and time of exposure. Reflectance-temperature standards from laboratory bombs apply to dike metamorphosed phytoclasts, and temperature plots based on phytoclast reflectance in contact rocks sampled are like those expected from a simple model of heat flow. Suites of well core samples with measured temperature have phytoclast reflectance-temperature gradients much higher than those of bomb samples. It is uncertain which reflectance-temperature scale can be used to measure actual burial temperature at specific sites, but the relative temperatures are useful in stratigraphic and structural problems and indicate approximate rank of burial metamorphism.
10.2307/3687224|Upper Triassic dinoflagellate morphotypes are present from widespread localities in the Sverdrup basin, arctic Canada. Comparisons with associated macrofossil and palynofloral assemblages in five wells located in the western Queen Elizabeth Islands, N.W.T., suggest that these dinoflagellates provide a reliable biostratigraphic datum. Correlation with palynofloral successions in northwest Europe indicates that the dinoflagellate assemblage is in part, if not entirely, of Norian age.
10.2307/3687242|A permineralized sapropelic "peat" enclosed in a silicified log was recently discovered in a Paleocene lignite seam in the Fort Union Group near Center, North Dakota. Silicified logs are commonly found in North Dakota lignite seams. Part of the permineralized peat has intruded into the log to form veinlets parallel to the tree rings. The mineral matter that occurred in the peat is cryptocrystalline, whereas the mineral matter in the silicified log is microcrystalline. The silicified peat is laden with pollen and spores typical of Paleocene microflora.
10.2307/3687276|Predominantly nonmarine early Tertiary sediments of the Wilcox Group in Texas include numerous local lignite deposits. Recent subsurface mapping has defined several interrelated depositional systems representing six sedimentary environments, in outcropping and subsurface Wilcox in Texas. Lignite occurs in three of the environments so defined; these are (1) fluvial, (2) deltaic, and (3) lagoonal. Plant microfossils and coal macerals from the Wilcox lignites comprise a relatively homogenous, recurring association, but substantial differences also exist between the lignites from the various environments. Petrographic differences include: (1) greater abundances of certain lithotypes, (2) predominance of certain macerals, (3) relative abundance of mineral matter. Palynologic differences can be summarized in terms of distribution of assemblages and species groups within the flora. Assemblages recognized are the (1) Corylus-Sphagnum Assemblage, (2) Palm Assemblage, and (3) Marine Influence Assemblage. Species groups include (1) locally indigenous forms, (2) reworked forms, (3) temperate genera and (4) tropical genera. Quantitative distinctions within the flora are suggested by species diversity indices. Paleoecologic inferences derived from this study suggest agreement with environmental interpretations based on mapping. This study is seen as a basis for further biostratigraphic and paleoecologic investigations in the Gulf Coast Tertiary.
10.2307/3687278|KAROSS is a computer-aided information storage and retrieval system for an information bank on Lower Karroo (Permian rocks of Africa) stratigraphic palynology. The information bank can be questioned either from the main computer installation or from remote terminal. The retrieval programs are designed to serve the general needs of a microfloral basinal analysis project. The types of problems solved by KAROSS are: (a) given one or more variables list one or more other(s); and (b) given one or more variables punch in a specified format one or more other(s) using (specified) codes for discrete data. The latter mode of output allows direct input into statistical or CALCOMP plotter programs.
10.2307/3687226|Jurassic coaly sediments from the Shahrud region, northeastern Iran, have yielded 32 species from 27 genera of plant microfossils. Eleven of the genera are comparable to genera previously identified from Jurassic rocks in the Kerman region, southeast Iran. The assemblages contain taxa found in Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous rocks, including the most abundant genera, Cyathidites, Monosulcites, and Inaperturopollenites. The absence of marine microfossils, together with supportive evidence from lithotypes and plant megafossils, indicates the Shahrud coaly sediments were probably deposited in a shallow-water, non-marine, deltaic or lagoonal environment. The diversity of pteridophyte spores, particularly the abundance of Cyathidites, and the abundance of cycadalean-bennettitalean pollen suggests that the climate was warm-temperate. The over-all aspect of the palynological assemblages and the lithological similarity of the Shahrud section to the Shemshak Formation of northern Iran indicate the Shahrud coaly rocks are late Liassic to Middle Jurassic in age.
10.2307/3687273|Considerable progress has been made in the last few years toward a solution to an old micropaleontological problem, namely, that of the "biological affinities of hystrichospheres." Today it can be said with some certainty that hystrichospheres (sensu stricto) as well as "typical" fossil dinoflagellates are homologous with the resting cysts or spores of living peridinealean dinoflagellates, but this does not completely resolve the original problem. Several important aspects of the biology of modern dinoflagellate cysts are very poorly understood or documented. These biological matters include the causes and mode of cyst formation and the genetic and physiological functions they perform. This contribution is devoted firstly to a review of recently acquired knowledge of modern dinoflagellate cysts that have micropaleontological interest and, secondly to a brief discussion of some of the biological problems that concern them.
10.2307/3687261|During a comprehensive biostratigraphic study of the English Jurassic, evidence from several infected specimens indicated that, at first, bacillary hyphae randomly infect the microspore exine. The hyphae subsequently develop spherules by swelling at various places. Finally, the hyphae disintegrate, leaving individual spherules on the host. These spherules degrade the surrounding exine of the host and are shed by the disintegration of the substratum. A formal generic name, Annella, is proposed for the microbe studied here, and two species, A. capitata and A. pulchra, are described and illustrated. The degraded fossil spores and pollen seem to have been infected after their deposition in the sediments. Such biogenic degradations have not been reported as yet in modern, fresh pollen or in situ microfossils.
10.2307/3687302|Miospore assemblages recovered from marine Upper Kimmeridgian and Portlandian and from nonmarine and lagoonal Purbeck Beds (which span the Jurassic-Cretaceous boundary) in Dorset and Sussex are dominated numerically by Classopollis and/or Inaperturopollenites and show a progressive diversification of species with time. Three microfloral suites containing a total of 77 species are recognized. Each suite is characterized by the entrance of new forms and by the frequencies of constituent species. The oldest suite is dominated by coniferalean pollen with less frequent pteridophyte spores and rare cycadalean pollen. The succeeding suites record a progressive diversification of pteridophyte and bryophyte spore types which are not, however, as abundant as coniferalean pollen. The over-all species composition of the suites is believed to be controlled by evolutionary or large-scale phytogeographic factors; but the detailed composition of each assemblage is controlled, in part, by local ecological-environmental factors. Faunal and floral correlations with marine sequences in Germany, Holland, France, and Switzerland indicate that the Jurassic-Cretaceous boundary in southern England is marked approximately by the base of the upper microfloral suite. This horizon occurs within the Middle Purbeck sequence at Dorset and near the base of the Purbeck in Sussex. Thus, the age of the lowest microfloral suite is early, middle, and partly late Tithonian, and the highest suite is Berriasian.
10.2307/3687225|The history of study of the Family Pareodiniaceae Gocht 1957 is reviewed. The morphology of the type genus Pareodinia Deflandre 1947 is discussed in the terms of shape, size, reflected tabulation, archeopyle, surface ornamentation, and the significance of the kalyptra, an outer mantle of flocculent organic matter. It is suggested that the kalyptra is a characteristic of the family and is preserved usually when there is minimum mechanical and chemical damage. The genera Paranetrelytron Sarjeant 1966 and Netrelytron Sarjeant 1961 differ from Pareodinia Deflandre 1947 and Kalyptea Cookson and Eisenack 1960 only in the possession of a pseudoendoblast. The morphology of other members of the Pareodiniaceae, including Komewuia Cookson and Eisenack 1960, Caligodinium Drugg 1970, Pluriarvalium Sarjeant 1962, Imbatodinium Vozzhennikova 1967, and the holotype for Broomea Cookson and Eisenack 1958, shows remarkable consistency in reflected tabulation and archeopyle with that of Pareodinia. The Family Pareodiniaceae Gocht 1957 and the genera Pareodinia Deflandre 1947 and Kalyptea Cookson and Eisenack 1960 are emended. The genera Paranetrelytron, Imbatodinium, Pluriarvalium, and Broomea are placed in synonymy with the genus Pareodinia. The genera Netrelytron and Komewuia are placed in synonymy with the genus Kalyptea. Four new species, Pareodinia alaskensis, Pareodinia arctica, Pareodinia minuta, and Pareodinia robusta; 1 new name, Pareodinia dasyforma; 1 new subspecies, Pareodinia osmingtonense subsp. rostrata; and 10 new combinations are proposed in the Family Pareodiniaceae. The new genus Necrobroomea and 7 new combinations are proposed in the Family Canningiaceae Sarjeant and Downie 1966.
10.2307/3687229|An annotated summary is provided of several papers by the author on a new method of data handling that both demands and allows for the much more efficient use of the abundance of palynomorphs in fine stratigraphy. The purpose of assemblage types, biorecords, comparison records, event compilation, bracket correlation, and various nomenclatural points is argued in sequence. The method is shown to be compatible with the continued use, if desired, of Linnan procedures for palaeobiologic purposes other than stratigraphy. Some remaining problems of palaeopalynology are commented upon.
10.2307/3687266|In the Palaeogene deltaic sediments of the Mackenzie Delta region, fungal spores seem to be more resistant than other palynomorphs, occasionally constituting more than 50% of the assemblage. They have proved to be important and practical fossils for stratigraphic correlation. The Pesavis zone is named after the conidiospore Pesavis tagluensis. Evolutionary changes in fungi connected with the development of the angiosperms and local extinctions caused by alterations of the climate are reflected in the record. Relative abundances of major groups already identify gross stratigraphic intervals. Species are being identified and catalogued, so that their ranges can be determined. The variable morphology is illustrated on a plate; no new species are described.
10.2307/3687291|Fossil dinoflagellate cysts assigned to Scriniodinium campanula Gocht and S. dictyotum Cookson and Eisenack were recovered from Mesozoic sediments of the western North Atlantic. New evidence of cyst tabulation and relationship of the two wall layers is proposed. Morphological gradation between these two morphotypes, in sediments of early Neocomian age, suggests that they are morphogenetically related.
10.2307/3687301|The evolutionary sequence from homospory through heterospory to the seed habit is reviewed in terms of the "small spore" (miospore) part of the life cycle. In the early stages of this progression, as seen in the Devonian and Carboniferous, the miospore shows little outward modification. The earliest miospores to function as pollen grains still retained proximal germination via a triradiate suture. The term "prepollen" is redefined so as to cover all such cases in which the miospore behaved as a pollen grain (in that its corresponding megaspore was retained in a ovule) but in which the germinal aperture was still proximal. The change from proximal to distal germination, which evidently lagged behind the retention of the megaspore to form an ovule, occurred independently in the cordaites and pteridosperms. The behavior of the pollen in living cycads shows an intermediate state between that of prepollen and the true pollen of the living conifers; for although the germination of cycad pollen is distal, the eventual release of the sperm is proximal. The change from the (distally) monocolpate to the ubiquitous triaperturate pollen in the angiosperms took place during the Cretaceous. One possible route of derivation is represented by the trichotomocolpate aperture present in the pollen of a few living angiosperms. The behavior of this type of pollen at germination shows that it may function as though having either one distal or three equatorial apertures.
10.2307/3687255|Three boreholes located in the Mackenzie River Delta area of Northwest Territories, Canada, are described with respect to vitrinite reflectance and palynomorph color-the two parameters used to deduce palaeotemperatures and predict potential hydrocarbons. The boreholes are I.O.E. Ellice 0-14, Gulf-Mobil Parsons F-09, and Gulf et al. Reindeer D-27. Palynomorph colors range from fresh yellow to light brown, while reflectance values vary between 0.31% Ro and 0.82% Ro. The relative degree of organic metamorphism for the area is considered to be slight to moderate, with the coal-equivalent rank, based on reflectance, ranging from lignitic to high volatile A bituminous. The palaeotemperatures (following Bostick, 1973) and the consequent geothermal gradients both vary according to depth and borehole. In effect, pollen color, rank, and palaeotemperatures suggest favorable conditions for the production and preservation of oil and gas (Staplin, 1969; Hacquebard and Donaldson, 1970; Pusey, 1973).
10.2307/3687280|Correlation of 15 Frontier Formation surface sections and 3 wells extending from central Wyoming to southern Montana is shown on four cross sections. The basis for correlation is the first occurrence of Deflandrea (Rigaudia) sp. cf. D. acuminata, along with four dinoflagellate cyst species present in the Lower Cretaceous, but which became extinct in the lower part of the Frontier. These four species are Diconodinium caulleryi, Ascodinium, cf. A. verrucosoum, Dinoflagellate A, and Coniferatium frontierensis gen. et sp. nov. The first occurrence of Dinogymnium heterocostatum near the base of the overlying Cody Formation parallels the Deflandrea datum and enforces postulated time-stratigraphic relationships. The mean Frontier shoreline during any 100-foot time rock interval is located by constructing six 100-foot slice maps, and identifying the aggregate continental thickness based on palynomorph or microplankton recovery. Interpretation of each 100-foot interval reveals areas of maximum and minimum sedimentation suggesting delta building and subsequent destruction.
10.2307/3687263|Fossil fungal spores and morphologically related material are common in Cenozoic sediments. Form genera and species are definable on morphologic character, including overall shape or symmetry, apertures, septation, and ornament. Sclerotia, hyphae from broken mycelia, and certain other cellular structures are accommodated by the Order Mycelia Sterilia of the Class Fungi Imperfecti. A new order of Fungi Imperfecti, Fungi Sporae Dispersae, accommodates all dispersed fungal spores. A suprageneric classification is possible on character of apertures and septation. Unpublished occurrence records suggest phylogenetic trends of fungal form genera. Fusiformisporites appears in probable mid-Palaeocene sediments and persists to the Recent. Species of Fusiformisporites develop in an orderly procession through the Cenozoic; Striatetracellaeites, possibly Striasporonites, and less likely Verrusporonites evolved from this line of longitudinally ribbed spores.
10.2307/3687292|Marine cores recovered by the Research Vessel Glomar Challenger during Leg 11 of the Deep Sea Drilling Project in the western North Atlantic were investigated to determine the stratigraphic distribution of the Cretaceous dinoflagellate cysts Deflandrea (= Spinidinium) vestita (Brideaux) comb. nov. and Deflandrea echinoidea Cookson and Eisenack. Deflandrea vestita is seemingly restricted to Albian sediments, whereas D. echinoidea first appears in the latest Albian to earliest Cenomanian cores and coexists with D. vestita, D. echinoidea continues to be found alone in later Cenomanian samples. Morphological similarities between the two species suggest a morphogenetic transition, and it is possible that they are also related phylogenetically. These species differ mainly in the degree of separation of the cyst wall layers. The older Deflandrea vestita displays closely appressed walls, but the D. echinoidea specimens of younger sediments have well-developed pericoels.
10.2307/3687208|Miospores were obtained from eight surface and bore-hole sections in central Yukon Territory. Forms such as Vittatina, Protohaploxypinus, Striatopodocarpites, Striatoabietites, Potonieisporites, Limittisporites and Cycadopites, attest to the Permian age of these collections. Associated foraminifers and brachiopods confirm the Permian age of the miospore assemblages. Underlying these Permian rocks are strata dated as mid-Pennsylvanian on the bases of brachiopods and fusulinids (Pseudostaffella, Fusulinella, and Profusulinella). A miospore assemblage similar to that above, containing Vittatina and numerous striate saccate forms occurs with these mid-Pennsylvanian fossils. As yet no "typical" Pennsylvanian assemblages have been recovered.
10.2307/3687265|Nanoxanthiopollenites mcmurrayi gen. et sp. nov. is described from the Bonner Springs Shale, Zarah Subgroup, Kansas City Group, Missourian Stage, Upper Pennsylvanian Series of Johnson County, Kansas. The new spore genus is monolete, with the suture being somewhat sigmoid in direction; sculpturing of the exine surface consists of conspicuous spinae. The general morphological features indicate a possible relationship to the Medullosaceae.
10.2307/3687244|Two surface pollen transects were collected from the Grand Canyon, Arizona. One transect consisted of 22 samples collected at river level through the inner gorge, a river distance of 362 km; the other went from the South Rim to the North Rim across the canyon and comprised 25 samples. Both transects show close agreement between local vegetation and modern pollen rain despite large quantities of arboreal pollen drifting into the canyon from upper elevation and rim communities. Pinus pollen averaged 19.3 percent at river level, all of it drifting in from the canyon rims; Quercus pollen, also drifting in, was 5.7 percent. Juniperus, which does occur occasionally at river level, averaged 17.7 percent. The major vegetation communities have different pollen spectra, comprised mostly of local pollen types. The distribution of several plants, particularly Ephedra torreyana, E. nevadensis and Franseria, is clearly recognized in the pollen counts. Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthus pollen types vary with the amount of available habitat space and soil salinity.
10.2307/3687219|Recent discoveries of palynoflorules at numerous localities in the Newark Group basins of the eastern United States provide new evidence for correlation of deposits in these basins. Floras from the Shuttle Meadow and Portland Formations of the Newark Group rocks in the Hartford Basin of Connecticut and Massachusetts indicate that the Triassic-Jurassic boundary is located within the rocks of this basin: a shift of Corollina from more than 90% C. meyeriana to more than 90% C. torosus occurs somewhere between the Shuttle Meadow and Portland Formations and generally indicates a Rhaeto-Liassic age. In the Shuttle Meadow Formation, the overall shape of the palynoflora (particularly the presence of Convolutispora klukiforma), associated fish, paleomagnetic data, and radiometric dates, as well as megafossil evidence of Brachyphyllum scotii and Clathropteris meniscoides, support a basal Liassic age for this formation. Reptilean evidence in older strata of the Hartford Basin suggests that the Triassic-Jurassic boundary may lie just below the Shuttle Meadow Formation. In addition the Portland Formation contains a palynomorph association clearly favoring early to middle Liassic age. Comparisons are made on the basis of studies of recently discovered Newark Group palynoflorules of early Liassic age from Virginia and of Carnian-Norian age from New Jersey. Paleobotanical and geological evidence is summarized, showing that the predominantly Corollina (Hirmerella) palynofloras of the Hartford Basin were associated with a warm, seasonally wet and dry climate, and casting doubt on the idea that Corollina-producing plants composed a swamp association within the original basin. Twenty-seven genera and 42 species are described, as are 1 spore and 1 pollen type of uncertain taxonomic position. Eight new species are described: Camerosporites reductiverrucatus n. sp., Corollina murphyi n. sp., Cycadopites andrewsii n. sp., Cycadopites durhamensis n. sp., Cycadopites westfieldicus n. sp., Dictyophyllidites paramuensteri n. sp., Foveosporites agawa mensis n. sp., Verrucosisporites cheneyi n. sp. Six new combinations are proposed: Araucariacites punctatus (Nilsson) comb. nov., Callialasporites segmentatus (Balme) comb. nov., Corollina itunensis (Pocock) comb. nov., Corollina simplex (Danz-Corsin & Laveine) comb. nov., Cycadopites reticulatus (Nilsson) comb. nov., Granulatisporties infirmus (Balme) comb. nov. The genera Circulina and Corollina are formally emended, as are the species Corollina torosus (Reissinger) Klaus and Circulina simplex Malyavkina.
10.2307/3687211|An Albian to Maestrichtian plant megafossil sequence in northern Alaska is documented by assemblages from 250 localities distributed through about 23,000 feet of section in seven study areas across 350 miles of the North Slope. The megafossil records are referred to formal rock units that range upward from Albian Torok-Fortress Mountain levels through the Albian-Cenomanian Nanushuk Group and the Turonian-Maestrichtian Colville Group. More than 380 plant species are recognized at present. Eight biostratigraphic zones totaling 21 subzones have been established: IA (oldest) and IB-fern-ginkgophyte-cycadophyte; II-fern-ginkgophyte-cycadophyte-conifer; III-fern-ginkgophyte-cycadophyte-conifer-dicot; IV-conifer-dicot; V to VII-predominantly dicots with conifers subdominant. Floral data from numerous levels suggest rapidly fluctuating conditions over the northern Alaska region during Cretaceous time. Floras and climates may have changed as rapidly in the later part of the Mesozoic era as they did in the later part of the Cenozoic era, perhaps every 100- to 200,000 years.
10.2307/3687267|The palaeomagnetic and palaeofloral data obtained by Soviet geologists are shown to be consistent. When interpreted within the framework of continental drift, the data allow the motion of the East European Platform and Siberian Platform since the Silurian Period to be discussed and suggest four phases of continental drift when examined at the global level. These are the Narnian Phase (Pre-Silurian), the Pangean Phase (Silurian to Middle Triassic), the Tethyan Phase (Upper Triassic to Middle Cretaceous), and the Atlantean Phase (Upper Cretaceous to Holocene).
10.2307/3687264|The peridinoid dinoflagellate cyst Geiselodinium tyonekensis sp. nov. is described from samples in several wells in the Cook Inlet Basin, Alaska. The portion of the wells from which the cysts were recovered is within the Tyonek Formation, considered to be Miocene in age. The Tertiary sediments in the Cook Inlet Basin are considered to be of terrigenous origin.
10.2307/3687277|The causes of areal and temporal variation in palynofloras extracted from sedimentary rocks are divided into major sources of variation and extraneous sources of variation. Major sources include: (1) Time; (2) Climate; (3) Plant succession; (4) Variations in local weather conditions; (5) Area dominated by species; (6) Distance transported; (7) Mode of transportation; (8) Intensity of transporting medium; (9) Characteristics of depositional basin; (10) Rate of deposition; (11) Differential flotation of miospore species; (12) Bacterial and fungal corrosion; (13) Action of bottom burrowing organisms; (14) Turbulance of depositional basin; (15) Presence of teratological forms; and (16) Recycling, stratigraphic leakage and reworking. Extraneous sources include: (1) Sample preparation; (2) Slide preparation; and (3) Operator error. These sources of variation can be measured indirectly by defining their operating level in the geological maze, and sampling accordingly. A least-squares covariate analysis of a Lower Permian succession of miospores from Tanzania is used to illustrate the concept.
10.2307/3687290|Fossil silicoflagellates of the genera Corbisema, Cornua, Dictyocha, Lyramula, and Vallacerta are abundant in the Marca Shale Member, Moreno Formation (Maastrichtian). Corbisema is represented by four morphotypes: Corbisema geometrica Hanna, C. geometrica Hanna var. apiculata Jous, C. trigona (Zittel) Deflandre, and C. triacantha (Ehrenberg) Hanna var. apiculata Lemmermann forma lateradiata Schulz. Corbisema geometrica Hanna is present throughout the section, while the other three morphotypes appear and disappear in irregular cycles. This cyclic occurrence is thought to be a response to fluctuating environmental conditions, with maximum diversity coincident with optimum conditions.
10.2307/3687304|Abundant naked, dichotomously branched stems of the Hostimella and Taeniocrada types, flabellate leaves of Ginkgophytopsis, reproductive structures identified as Cooksonia and Yarravia, and both micro- and megaspores are described from a gray shale in the Martin Formation of the Salt River Canyon in central Arizona. Based on the nature of this unique fossil flora, the plant-bearing horizon (in the Beckers Butte Emsian and not younger than early Frasnian age.
10.2307/3687241|The Dakota Sandstone, the oldest formation of Cretaceous age in south-central Utah, has long been a problem for the paleontologist and paleoecologist. In this area it was deposited on the western fringe of a broad, shallow, fluctuating sea, which extended from the Gulf of Mexico to the Arctic Ocean. Probably because of the salinity and poor circulation in the ancient sea, few megafossils occur in the formation. Little hope was held that the paleoecology of the formation would ever be understood. However, since beds representing flood plains and coal swamps are found interbedded among the beach and shoal deposits of the Dakota, palynological techniques offer a fresh and productive approach to the problem. Samples of Dakota sediment were collected within 200 feet of a measured section in Willis Creek Canyon, Paunsaugunt Plateau, near Bryce Canyon. Each sample was located with respect to that section. Thirteen samples have yielded abundant palynofloras and were used to make determinations for this report. The samples have yielded about 40 genera and 125 species of palynomorphs. Evidence from the palynomorph assemblage indicates that the age of the Dakota Sandstone in the Paunsaugunt Plateau area is not older than upper Albian, and probably not younger than upper Cenomanian. The environment at the time of deposition was probably subtropical.
10.2307/3687258|Pollen assemblages from surface samples of lake bottom sediment and northern muskeg indicate that the major vegetation regions (boreal forest, taiga, forest-tundra, and tundra) that extend from central Quebec to the eastern Arctic can be identified on the basis of palynological information. Although it is possible to recognize modern palynological tundra in relation to present distribution limits of vegetation, it should not be concluded that unqualified identification can be made of "palaeotundra" that presumably existed in the periglacial zone that bordered the southern margin of the continental ice sheet in late Pleistocene time. Our present data base is not adequate with respect to arctic palynological surface sample coverage and the understanding of atmospheric pollen dispersal over the northern regions. This information is required for the study of the history of tundra environment in the Cenozoic palynostratigraphic record.
10.2307/3687222|Diverse microfloras from a section of Santonian to Maastrichtian age from the Horton River, N.W.T., contain abundant specimens of species of Deflandrea and other peridinioid forms. The abundance and ranges of these species, particularly in the Campanian, permit establishment of three microfloral divisions. Six new species of Deflandrea are described: D. ditissima, D. decorosa, D. coronata, D. microarma, D. amphiata, D. biapertura. A new genus, Laciniadinium, has been established, with two new species, L. orbiculatum, and L. biconiculum. In the lower part of the section, morphologic changes in three new Deflandrea species suggest that they form a lineage of cyst species. It may be that the lineage has arisen in response to change in environmental conditions.
10.2307/3687237|A palynological study was conducted on surface samples from a measured section of the Eureka Sound Formation on Ellef Ringnes Island in the Canadian Arctic Islands. The microflora is of Maestrichtian age and compares with the microflora of the Ust-Yenisey botanical-geographical subprovince of Samoilovich in the western Siberian lowlands. A total of 57 taxa were recorded, 46 being pollen and spores and 11 microplankton. One new genus and 7 new species are proposed, and 8 new name combinations are suggested. The new genus and species is Clanculatus ignotus. The new species are Hamulatisporis impensus, Welwitschiapites incertissimus, Aquilapollenites saginatus, Fibulapollis triangularis, Azonia pulchella, Ovoidites arcticus, and Trithyrodinium ornatum.
10.2307/3687257|Fossil pollen of the morphological type "oculata" have been encountered in sediments of Upper Cretaceous and Palaeocene age in Alaska. These Alaskan assemblages contain most of the species described by other authors in the United States, Canada, and the USSR. In addition, several new Alaskan species have been encountered. These taxa are evaluated here morphologically and biostratigraphically, with particular reference to pollen wall and aperture morphology, the Campanian-Maastrichtian and Maastrichtian-Palaeocene age boundaries, and regional distribution. All species are allocated to the genera Azonia Samoilovitch 1961, Wodehouseia Stanley 1961, and Singularia Samoilovitch 1961; and the genus Azonia is emended. Ten new species of Azonia and Wodehouseia are described: Azonia cribrata, A. parva, A. sufflata, Wodehouseia avita, W. bella, W. capillata, W. edmontonicola, W. octospina, W. quadrispina, and W. vestivirgata. Three new subspecies are described: Azonia fabacea subsp. reticulata, A. fabacea subsp. rugulosa, and Wodehouseia fimbriata subsp. constricta. Seven new combinations are made also: Azonia calvata (Samoilovitch), A. hirsuta (Samoilovitch), A. jacutense (Samoilovitch), A. obliquus (Chlonova), Wodehouseia asper (Samoilovitch), W. excelsa (Samoilovitch), and W. elegans (Samoilovitch).
10.2307/3687260|Specimens of the genus Spencerisporites have been examined from 42 localities in Europe and North America that encompass a range from Visan to Stephanian. Two principal species are recognized: S. radiatus, which is present from Visan through Westphalian C, and S. gracilis, from Westphalian D to Stephanian. A new variety of S. gracilis is recognized from Illinois. A transitional gradient in size and morphological characters exists, and significant changes occur at the Mississippian-Pennsylvania boundary (Namurian A to B) and from Westphalian C to D. The ability to view this continuous stratigraphic sequence reveals the difficulty in obtaining confident demarcation of species.
10.2307/3687246|An electron-probe microanalysis was undertaken to determine the presence and concentrations of trace elements in thirty nannofossils species representing most major Cenozoic morphological groups. Excellently preserved specimens from core samples from the Gulf of Mexico were analyzed with a combination scanning electron microscope and electron micro-probe consisting of both dispersive and non-dispersive X-ray spectrometers. Any trace elements within the nannofossils examined are present only at levels below the limit of detectability of the instrument. The applications of trace element distributions in nannofossils to paleoecological or paleoenvironmental considerations do not appear promising. Compared to other calcareous algal groups, the nannoplankton are more discriminating against Mg and Sr uptake, and apparently they have been so throughout the Cenozoic. Other than that, biochemical evolutionary or phyletic relationships are not evident. It is also doubtful if nannofossils have been a major vector in the transport of trace elements into the pelagic realm. One of the factors that enhance the biostratigraphic utility of nannofossils is their relative resistance to dissolution during sedimentation. It is probable that the greater stability of the very low magnesium to pure calcite secreted by nannoplankton is one factor related to the higher degree of preservation of this group compared to other calcareous plankton.
10.2307/3687274|Sable Island holds especial interest in postglacial palynology because it lies about 180 miles east of Halifax, Nova Scotia, near the edge of the continental shelf and is the only emerged part left of an extensive archipelago which existed on the shelf during the last glaciation. A series of buried soil and peat horizons, ranging in age from about 200 to 11,000 radiocarbon years, has been studied palynologically in addition to surface samples and atmospheric pollen deposition. This study has failed to substantiate the claimed presence of interglacial surfaces (soils) on the island and supports instead the hypothesis of a continuously changing and slowly eastwardly migrating complex of sand deposits. The absence of trees on the island facilitates studies on long distance atmospheric transport of pollen and spores from the mainland; a quantitative study of atmospheric pollen is now being continued by J. C. Ritchie of Dalhousie University at Halifax.
10.2307/3687205|The Brazeau Formation is an Upper Cretaceous continental sequence found in the foothills of central Alberta ranging in age from Campanian to Maestrichtian. The Belly River Group (Campanian), the Bearpaw Formation (Campanian), and the Edmonton Group (Maestrichtian) which are found in stratigraphic succession on the plains of central Alberta are considered equivalent to parts of the Brazeau Formation. By comparing megaspore sequences in a section of the Belly River Group (Campanian) in southern Alberta, and sections from the Horsehoe Canyon, Whitemud, Battle (Maestrichtian) and Paskapoo formations (Paleocene) of central Alberta, to the Blackstone River section of Brazeau-Paskapoo formations near Nordegg, megaspore zonation and correlation of the Brazeau and Paskapoo formations is proposed. To achieve the megaspore zonation, correlation and proper positioning of the megaspore zone-contacts within the Brazeau-Paskapoo formations (Blackstone River section), 63 megaspore species from about 200 lithologic samples were obtained from the Blackstone River section. One new genus and 14 new species are described.
10.2307/3687207|A vertical stratigraphic sequence of interrelated older Senonian and Maestrichtian dinoflagellate cysts is delineated in samples from offshore well in Gabon. The lineage is a morphologically transitional evolutionary series and its earliest morphotypes, simple peridinioid cysts with three horns and globose to sub-pentagonal outlines, are assigned to Deflandrea laevigata sp. nov. Succeeding lineage members, related by their wall structures and archeopyles, are assigned to Svalbardella Manum 1960 and Palaeocystodinium Alberti 1960. Svalbardella polymorpha sp. nov. is defined. Intervals examined are open marine, as evidenced by abundant dinoflagellate cysts, microforaminifers, and planktonic and benthonic foraminifers. Paleoenvironments are characterized by plots of two parameters: a ratio of marine to terrestrial palynomorphs (R = M/T) and a ratio of dinoflagellates to microforaminifers (R = D/M). Interpretations of these curves are presented.
10.2307/3687213|The primary factor causing carbonization of pollen and spores during experimental metamorphism of Waimatua lignite is temperature in excess of 200C. A secondary factor is the length of time the pollen and spores are subjected to high temperatures. Pressure, however, retards carbonization. Both experimental and field evidence indicate that significant palynomorph carbonization occurs in samples with fixed carbon of 60-65% and greater.
10.2307/3687240|The new genus Druggidium is proposed for three species of dinoflagellates whose cysts share the following characteristics: small proximate cysts with cyst tabulation 3 or 4, 0a, 6, 6c, 6, lp, 1; two-plate precingular archeopyle (2-3), with operculum composed of two opercular pieces (2P) that are commonly adherent at the cingulum; and spatulate sulcus. The species are Druggidium apicopaucicum sp. nov. and type for the genus, D. deflandrei (Millioud) comb. nov. and emended, and D. rhabdoreticulatum sp. nov. An iterative monophyletic lineage is proposed, based on the model of increasing tract texture. During the Berriasian or Valanginian, D. apicopaucicum evolved to D. deflandrei through development of tract alveolation. D. rhabdoreticulatum evolved from D. deflandrei during the Valanginian through modification of the alveolate tract to one that supported a raised reticulate membrane.
10.2307/3687206|Several lacustrine species of Pleistocene and Recent peridiniacean cysts form archeopyles by means of a single transapical suture, with or without accessory sutures. Previously published records of closely similar structures in marine Cretaceous peridiniacean cysts are documented and reinterpreted, and a further type is described from the Albian of Oklahoma. These bipesioid cysts appear to represent a lineage that diverged from the marine peridiniacean stock in the Early Cretaceous and invaded freshwater environments during the Tertiary, completely abandoning marine environments by the Quaternary.
10.2307/3687228|In situ spores are described from several Carboniferous species of calamitalean fructifications, including the cone genera Calamostachys, Palaeostachya, Calamocarpon, Mazostachys, Weissistachys, and a Cingularia-like form. In all homosporous forms, and the heterosporous cone Calamocarpon insignis, the spores are shown to bear three circinately coiled elaters. Information indicates that spores from the same cone are described under the dispersed spore genera Vestispora, Elaterites, or Calamospora depending upon whether the elaters are tightly coiled, loosely coiled, or are missing. The presence of an unornamented perispore on the megaspores of one heterosporous species is demonstrated, together with a discussion of the apparent widespread occurrence of a perisporial membrane in the majority of plants referable to the Arthrophytina.
10.2307/3687204|The Mesophytic Era began in the Permian when advanced gymnosperms migrated from the uplands, where they had evolved during the latter half of the Pennsylvanian, down into the depositional basins. The Mesophytic Flora orginated at least in part near the paleoequator. The Pennsylvanian tropical uplands where much of this flora evolved were probably cooler, less rainy, and had greater seasonal variations in rainfall than most tropical uplands do now. The Mesophytic Flora appears to have originated in the Pennsylvanian because for the first time stocks of plants (conifers and advanced seed ferns) were available that could really flourish in upland environments. Evolution of the Mesophytic Flora may also have been promoted in the Pennsylvanian by forced migrations of the upland vegetation, by the sparseness of the plants, by climatic changes, and by the high CO<sub>2</sub>: O<sub>2</sub> ratio in the atmosphere.
10.2307/3687243|The various types of bladder-like swellings are discussed and a new term, "hymena," is introduced for swollen layers that are smooth on both their upper and lower surfaces. A new genus Psilohymena is defined and two species, P. mirabilis (Luber) comb. nov. and P. psiloptera (Luber) comb. nov., are assigned to it. P. mirabilis is the type species. A variation study of the degree of swelling of the hymena is given.
10.2307/3687287|Maps of the modern pollen from southern Michigan show that the patterns in the vegetation are derivable from pollen data. The pollen maps reveal the differences at the formation level, i.e., between the deciduous forests and the mixed conifer-hardwood forests, and the differences at the forest-type level, i.e., between the pine forests and the northern hardwoods and between the oak-hickory forests and beechmaple forests. Maps showing the isopolls for individual pollen types and the distribution of principal components derived from the pollen data are used to illustrate these results.
10.2307/3687286|Peridinium hansonianum Traverse from the freshwater Brandon Formation (Oligocene, Vermont) is redescribed. Although its morphology basically recalls that of fossil Deflandrea, closest similarities are to Peridinium limbatum (Stokes) Lemmermann, a modern freshwater dinoflagellate. P. hansonianum thus provides another link between modern freshwater dinoflagellates and marine forms of the fossil record that lack modern marine counterparts. It appears increasingly likely that this situation reflects colonization of the freshwater habitat by dinoflagelate migrants from the marine environment, with the date for such a colonization at least as early as the late Oligocene.
10.2307/3687227|Surface samples from seven peat-forming environments in the Okefenokee Swamp-Nymphaea, Panicum, Carex, and Woodwardia marshes; Nyssa and Taxodium swamps; and Cyrilla "tree islands"-revealed distinctive pollen and spore assemblages. Within the forested areas, surface samples were characterized by specific assemblages that would make each peat type easily recognizable in the subsurface. Of the marsh types, Woodwardia and Panicum peats had the most distinctive pollen assemblages; whereas, Nymphaea and Carex samples could be distinguished readily from all of the other types but exhibited only minor differences from one another. All paleoecological interpretations would be strengthened by the addition of analyses of plant fragments in microtome sections.
10.2307/3687248|Juglandaceous pollen of the Early Tertiary deposits of North America and Europe exhibit basic morphology like that of modern species of the family and some features not found in modern species. Pollen morphology suggests several phyletic trends within the family in Early Tertiary time. Morphogenetic trends among triporate species of the Juglandaceae, especially of the Engelhardia-Alfaroa group, involve thinning, thickening, and folding of exine at the poles, or inflation of the atria. Morphologic evidence indicates close phyletic relationship between Engelhardia and Carya. Morphologic groups are defined among fossil triporate juglandaceous species, and relationships are suggested. Momipites Wodehouse 1933 is emended, and Engelhardtiapollenites Raatz 1937, Engelhardtioidites Potoni, Thomson, and Thiergart 1950, Engelhardtioipollenites Potoni 1951, and Maceopolipollenites Leffingwell 1971 are submerged in it. Momipites triradiatus and M. wodehousei are described as new, and 17 new combinations are proposed.
10.2307/3687293|Carboniferous, Permian, and Triassic sporomorphs from Zohar 8 and 'Avdat 1 boreholes (southern Israel) are studied. Three assemblage zones, based on the distribution of sporomorphs, are established: the Punctatosporites minutus Zone, of Westphalian age, overlain unconformably by the Klausipollenites schaubergeri Zone of Thuringian age, and the Taeniaesporites kraeuseli Zone, of Triassic age, which overlies the Thuringian sediments and is overlain by Jurassic strata. The Permian and Triassic zones are divided into 3 subzones.
10.2307/3687300|A brief history of the investigation of fossil dinoflagellates and a summary of certain biological considerations are followed by a survey of recent progress along selected lines in the study of these organisms. Some of the new information that has come to light as a result of the reinforcing interplay between biological and paleontological investigations is reviewed and some of the nomenclatural and taxonomic questions raised by it, which will concern students of living and fossil dinoflagellates alike, are pointed out. Morphological features that distinguish theca from resting cyst and the requisite for an adequate description of the resting cyst are tabulated. An extensive bibliography includes detailed papers on the topics covered.
10.2307/3687239|A section of Catskill Formation (Devonian) carbonaceous shales including pockets and small beds of pyritic, vitrinitic, high-volatile A bituminous "coal" (>40 percent ash) was uncovered during construction of Interstate Highway 80 in Centre County, Pennsylvania. The carbonaceous sediments are up-section from reddish mudstone and gray sandy siltstone containing poorly preserved plant fossils, and the whole sequence is presumably deltaic. Stratigraphically about 50 feet above the coal, well-preserved lepidodendrid ("Knorria") stem casts occur. About 2000 feet west and 140 feet stratigraphically above the principal study locality, typical Pocono (Mississippian) lithology is observed in another road cut. The carbonaceous shales and coals of the primary study locality contain abundant spores, mostly Hymenozonotriletes lepidophytus Kedo, H. famenensis Kedo, and H. pusillites Kedo. Similar associations of miospores occur at the Carboniferous-Devonian boundary in Canada, western Europe, and the USSR, probably indicating that the zone can be used as an intercontinental marker horizon. As is true elsewhere, H. lepidophytus decreases in size and then disappears toward the top of the Devonian sequence. In the presumed Mississippian locality above and west of the "coal" site, only H. pusillites of this trio remains, as has been found on the Carboniferous side of the boundary elsewhere in the world. Size studies of H. lepidophytus within a small vertical sequence of the shales and coals show variations from sample to sample, which may indicate hydrodynamic effects during transport and deposition of the sediments.
10.2307/3687214|Ten samples collected from one outcrop of the Thurber Coal (Garner Formation, Strawn Series) of north-central Texas contain an overwhelming number of Thymospora pseudothiessenii. Among other genera, Lycospora, Calamospora, and Florinites increase in percentage near the top of the coal, whereas Triquitrites and Punctatisporites decrease in abundance. The assemblage is comparable to the Lower Carbondale (Early Westphalian D) miospore assemblages occurring in the Bevier Coal of Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri, and the Lowell Coal of Illinois. The Mingus Shale, overlying the Coal, is primarily characterized by Florinites and Endosporites, and can be differentiated palynologically from the overlying East Mountain Formation. The assemblage in the shale is comparable to that of the Linopteris obliqua Zone, Maritime Provinces, Canada, of Early Westphalian D age.
10.2307/3687220|Revised descriptions and interpretations are presented for five species of Australian Eocene dinoflagellates based primarily on abundant specimens from newly collected and processed samples, and to a lesser extent on the examination of type specimens. These species, whose processes or peritabular ridges reflect a basic gonyaulacacean tabulation, were described originally as Cannosphaeropsis urnaformis Cookson, Hystrichosphaeridium floripes Deflandre & Cookson, Schematophora speciosa Deflandre & Cookson, Eisenackia ornata Cookson & Eisenack, and Aireiana verrucosa Cookson & Eisenack. For the first species, the new genus Emmetrocysta is proposed with E. urnaformis as its type species; Hystrichosphaeridium floripes is transferred to Homotrybliun Davey & Williams. The reflected tabulation and other features on Schematophora speciosa and Eisenackia ornata are analyzed and compared, and the process formula for Aireiana verrucosa is divulged.
10.2307/3687247|Dinoflagellates in Late Quaternary sediments from deepwater cores in the Black Sea appear to fall into two ecological categories that are dependent upon paleosalinity relationships. Sediments deposited there during the last 7,000 years contain cosmopolitan, euryhaline species of common marine genera and represent the brackish-water Old Black Sea Stage of Soviet authors. Older sediments whose ages did not exceed 23,000 years in our cores contain a unique assemblage that comprises essentially two species, Tectatodinium psilatum Wall and Dale and Spiniferites cruciformis Wall and Dale. These dinoflagellates apparently lived in the almost freshwater "lake-sea" of the New Euxinic Stage and were displaced abruptly 7,000 years ago when saline water from the Mediterranean began to flow into the Black Sea.
