20494390|The macrobenthos at eighty-four locations in North Bay (Galway Bay) was surveyed using a 0.1m van Veen grab. Hierarchical classification of the resultant data revealed a number of associations whose distribution is considered against a background of certain information on the physical (sediment particle size) and chemical (heavy metal and organic carbon levels) environment. These associations are compared with Petersen-style equivalents in boreo-mediterranean seas and each is examined in terms of its species diversity, evenness and richness.
20494458|A recent bog flow occurred in County Sligo during which 81,000m of material, ejected from an upland bog, flowed down a small stream channel towards the village of Geevagh. The general features of this event are described and the results of more detailed observations presented. The source area of the flow was surveyed shortly after the event and cores were taken to examine the stratigraphy, bulk density and moisture content of the peat. Five sections of the stream channel were surveyed in detail and the velocity and discharge of the flow were estimated using the Manning equation. The possible causes of the event are discussed in relation to previous bog flows in Ireland. The precise mechanism of failure is uncertain in this case, but antecedent rainfall, topography of the source area and the presence of a clay-rich drift underlying the peat are identified as potentially significant factors.
20494316|-Elimination of 9-(methoxymethyl)fluorene in CHOD and of the 9-deuteriated substrate in CHOH are subject to kinetic induction periods similar to those observed with the corresponding 9-(hydroxymethyl)fluorene arising from competing hydrogen isotope exchange between substrate and solvent. A kinetic analysis in which rate constants for a series first order kinetic scheme are evaluated iteratively shows the mechanism of elimination to be ElcB. Despite the twenty times greater reactivity of the methoxy than hydroxy leaving group, enhancement of the small component of E2 elimination thought to accompany the predominantly ElcB pathway for the 9-(hydroxymethyl)fluorene is not observed. The unexpectedly higher rate of ionisation of the 9-fluorenyl hydrogen in 9-methoxymethyl than 9-(hyroxymethyl)fluorene is compared with behaviour in related systems.
20494358|A total of 29 species of fish was recorded at Kylesalia Creek, Connemara, during the period October 1976 to May 1977. A total of 564 fish was captured. O group and one-year-old fish were not recorded due to the restricted sampling methods. All of the species investigated at Kylesalia were predominantly carnivorous. Amphipods, gastropods and decapods were the most frequently recorded food items. Small amounts of algae and detritus were also of frequent occurrence.
20518866|1. Previous zoological work in the Burren region is briefly described. 2. Annotated lists of Curculionoidea taken in and outside the Burren region are given. 3. Abbreviated lists of other insects recorded from the same areas are included. 4. The species of Curculionoidea found are discussed in relation to their biology and distribution.
20494510|The arylation of 2,2-dimethyl-2H-1-benzopyran with 2-chloromercuriophenols in the presence of lithium chloropalladite affords 4-aryl-2,2-dimethyl-2H-1-benzopyrans. To confirm the position of arylation in this reaction an unambiguous synthesis of a 2,2-dimethyl-3-phenyl-2H-1-benzopyran and a 2,2-dimethyl-4-phenyl-2H-1-benzopyran was carried out. 3-Aryl-2H-1-benzopyran-2-ones were treated with methylmagnesium iodide to give the 3-aryl-2,2-dimethyl-2H-1-benzopyran products, while 6,7-dimethoxy-4-phenyl-2H-1-benzopyran-2-one was reacted with methylmagnesium iodide to afford the 6,7-dimethoxy-2,2-dimethyl-4-phenyl-2H-1-benzopyran. Comparison of the H and C n.m.r data of these products with those obtained from the Heck arylation reaction confirmed that arylation of 2,2-dimethyl-2H-1-benzopyran had occurred at C-4 This reaction offers a new synthetic route to the neoflavene ring system.
20494327|Along the meso-tidal, high-energy, north coast of Ireland, crescentic, parallel and transitional sand bar forms are common elements in the offshore topography. These bars exercise an important control over continuing coastal stability as they both receive, store and feed sediment, and determine the nature and pattern of nearshore wave and tide processes. At any locality, planimetric bar form is determined by (a) nature of the shoreline, (b) sediment type and availability and (c) wave and tide processes. Major geomorphological changes occur during infrequent high-energy wave events when bars may either move seaward into deeper water, or migrate rapidly along shore. In addition there is some evidence that parallel bars at Magilligan may temporarily become crescentic forms during storms. Analyses of geometric properties of sand bars at Portrush and Magilligan suggest that the forms are not self-regulating, relying on minor changes in wave or tide processes to produce both oscillatory migration and variations in profile.
20494426|The biology of the short-spined sea scorpion Myoxocephalus scorpius scorpius (L.) was investigated between March 1979 and March 1980 A total of ninety-six specimens was collected at approximately monthly intervals off the north shore of Galway Bay. The fish were captured on rough ground among seaweeds at depths of 10-20m. The female: male sex ratio was 0.88: 1 (P &lt; 0.05). Otoliths were used for age determination. A von Bertalanffy growth function yielded the equation
20519008|Fifty-nine specimens of the leopard-spotted goby, T. ephippiatus (Lowe), were taken in Killary Bay and in Kilkieran Bay (Connemara), Co. Galway. The fish inhabits sub-marine rock and cliff areas. Its diet is varied but consists mainly of polychaetes, crustaceans and molluscs. Growth continues for at least seven years; initial growth is fast but tends to slow down in later years. The male fish grows slightly more rapidly than the female. Maturity is reached during the third and fourth years and the number of eggs produced increases with fish size. There is, however, variation in number at any particular size. Some meristic characters are similar to a Scottish population but other characters resemble those of a more southerly placed population.
20494479|One hundred and ninety species of myxomycetes are listed for Ireland, of which 28 are the first published records. Licea iridis is described as new. Most of the additions developed in moist chamber culture of bark from living trees. Further collecting is needed in Armagh, Tyrone and east Donegal.
20494293|Diazoacetic ester adds to the -face of (+)-car-3-ene giving epimeric tricyclic esters whose configurations have been identified. The corresponding alcohols and their acetates respectively undergo acid-catalysed and thermal rearrangement giving isomeric bicyclic dienes. From the acetates a p-menthadiene derivative is also obtained.
20494300|Theoretical calculations have been made of the energy change associated with the substitution of a univalent impurity ion into an alkali halide host crystal. The association energies for the formation of nearest neighbour (nn) or next nn complexes with a vacancy on the same sublattice and the activation energies for four kinds of single vacancy jumps have also been calculated. The results of the calculations are discussed in relation to the size of the substitutional impurity ion and comparisons are made with available experimental data.
20494424|Lough Neagh pollan were captured monthly in trawls, draft-nets and gill-nets in 1974-8. Gill-net selectivity was estimated by direct comparison of gill-net catches with a trawl catch. Total mortality was high in 1976 and 1977, and fish older than 5+ were rare. Due to recruitment failure in 1977, the abundance of pollan over the three years of study fell markedly. Pollan were more fecund in 1971-2 than in 1977-8 in spite of their greater abundance in the former years. The fishery might be regulated as a gill-net fishery by imposing a minimum mesh size of 30mm bar to reduce the catch rate of younger pollan.
20518945|The detailed examination of a section exposed in the bank of the Finglas River provides some new information about Late (Upper)-Midlandian stratigraphy on the Iveragh peninsula in Kerry. The exposure cuts through two terraces, the lower being composed of postglacial fluviatile sediments and peat, whereas the upper is a glacial outwash feature, related to a nearby end-moraine system which is one of an approximately coeval series of similar moraines in the area. The outwash sediments are disturbed by periglacial involutions and overlain by a freshwater detritus mud. Pollen and macrofossil analyses reveal this to be of Late-glacial type. Radiocarbon dates of 9,220 B.C. and 10,000 B.C. obtained respectively from the top and bottom of the deposit confirm this assessment. It is argued that climatic amelioration marking the beginning of the Late-glacial interstadial took place some time before 10,000 B.C. The two cold episodes represented by the outwash sediments and the involutions in the section are considered to older than 11,000 B.C. and are therefore phases in the main Midlandian glaciation of Ireland, rather than cold oscillations in the Late-glacial period.
20494919|The Kilmacrenan Succession east of Glenties is of Dalradian metasediments which can be correlated with the Islay Succession of Scotland. These rocks have undergone metamorphism leading to a greenschist facies assemblage and deformation resulting in a penetrative schistosity developing sub-parallel to the bedding. This schistosity has been subsequently deformed by a well-developed crenulation cleavage which is associated with a large recumbent syncline which faces south-east. Three minor phases of deformation follow this and recrystallisation seems to have continued throughout.
20518916|Excellent coastal exposures in north-eastern Inishowen, Co. Donegal, reveal a sequence of 1500m of middle and Upper Dalradian strata. The succession of McCallien (1935) is redescribed, and evidence presented for the existence of turbidite sedimentation in Upper Dalradian times.
20518891|Using a semiempirical and self-consistent charge and configuration (SCCC) molecular orbital method Cr(CO) and Cr(CO)N, in
20494461|The diet of feral mink Mustela vison was investigated by analysis of 2510 scats from study areas--two watercourses and two lakes--in the Irish midlands. There was a wide range of prey and considerable local variation, indicating an opportunist predator. Terrestrial animals were taken more frequently along watercourses. Crayfish Austropotamobius pallipes were the major food in two areas, especially in summer, and birds on one lake where there were large wildfowl populations and few crayfish. Consumption of fish was highest in winter with perch Perca fluviatilis and eel Anguilla anguilla the most frequent species, the latter peaking in summer. Mink probably do not select fish from a particular size range. Lagomorphs and rats Rattus norvegicus were the main mammalian prey. Frogs Rana temporaria were locally and seasonally important. Other invertebrates, vegetable and inanimate matter were probably consumed accidentally, but Dytiscus beetles seem to be a genuine minor food.
20519007|Geophysical data from the sea area to the north of County Donegal are interpreted to indicate the seaward extents of both the Thorr and Fanad plutons. It is shown that the Thorr pluton extends some 20 kilometres to the north-west of Bloody Foreland headland while the Fanad pluton, of which only a small part is seen on the coast, is also an areally extensive body. Interpretation of the gravity anomaly of the Fanad pluton suggests a maximum thickness of 3.5 kilometres.
20494528|As an industrially important catalytic support material, a form of fibrous alumina, -AlO, was investigated for its thermal stability. Cation addition was used as a means of improving the stability at elevated temperatures. The following cations were investigated: Ba, Ca, Ce, Cs, La, Zr; the order of effectiveness as phase transfer inhibitors was found to be La &gt; Ce = Cs &gt; Zr = Ba = Ca. These results are compared to known methods of -AlO thermal stabilisation.
20494395|The distribution of Mytilus edulis L. in Lough Foyle is described. Detailed study of a single Mytilus bed demonstrated that growth is slow with recruitment concentrated at the seaward facing edge of the bed. Regional differences in mussel shell shape were highlighted by allometric growth studies. The fauna associated with Mytilus was found to exhibit both spatial and seasonal variation in abundance. A management strategy for the commercial exploitation of Mytilus in this area is discussed.
20494486|The diet of the otter Lutra lutra was investigated by analysis of collections of faeces from two lakes and three rivers in the Irish midlands. Fish, crayfish Austropotamobius pallipes and frogs Rana temporaria were the main foods with birds (mainly rails) and Dytiscus beetles decidedly minor items. Seasonal and locational variations in the prey were investigated in detail. The sizes of fish and crayfish consumed were also examined. The results were compared with those from a similar study of the food of feral mink Mustela vison closely corresponding to the same study period and areas. There was significant dietary separation. Mink took more birds, appreciable numbers of mammals and considerably fewer fish. There were some differences too in the relative amounts of some of the fish species eaten.
20518990|Leucine and mevalonic acid are shown to be precursors of senecioic acid in Senecio mikanoides (Otto). Leucine is the more efficient precursor of this compound.
20494516|This paper addresses a wide divergence which exists in the literature between frameworks for the interpretation of adsorbate activation upon semiconducting metal oxides and upon insulating metal oxides. Illustrations are given of the emphasis placed upon activation via single-electron-transfer (SET) events in the former and via Lewis Acid/Lewis Base, electron-pair interactions (EPI) in the latter. A qualitative perturbational molecular orbital formalism is extended to considerations of photo-activation of adsorbates Results for the thermo- and photo-activation of isopropanol, oxygen and nitrous oxide on various oxides are presented and compared with predictions based solely upon SET or EPI formalisms Significant shortcomings are noted. Illustrations are given of the possibilities for more adequate agreement between models and experiment when account is taken of important roles of surface defects and surface impurities.
20494406|By a comparative study of the cyclization reactions of 2-hydroxy-4,6-dimethoxychalcone dibromides variously substituted in the 3-position, it was shown that the effect of the 3-substituent in partially diverting these reactions from flavone-formation to aurone-formation is electronic rather than steric in origin.
20494938|The coastal section has been mapped on the scale 1:2534 and the stratigraphy and structure radically revised. The succession, which is repeated several times by large folds and faults, is shown to consist of a thick succession of the Arenig Ribband Group overlain unconformably by a relatively thin (300m approx.) Caradoc succession (Courtown Formation, Ballinatray Formation and Ballymoney Formation). The succession is affected by polyphase deformation and the first cleavage, which affects both the Arenig and the Caradoc rocks, is axial planar to the large folds and their associated minor folds.
20494306|The hydroxylation of 11a-methylpterocarpan to give 6a-hydroxy-11a-methylpterocarpan has been achieved by two routes (i) using lead tetraacetate and (ii) by acid cyclisation of 2(2-hydroxyphenyl)-2-methyl-3-epoxymethylenebenzofuran. A preliminary bioassay on the oxidation product (5) shows it to have antifungal activity.
20494502|Ethyl 2-benzeneselenylpropenoate reacts with cyclopentadiene under Diels-Alder conditions at 150C to give a modest yield of the anticipated cycloadduct as a mixture of endo and exo isomers, together with an unexpected isomeric product,
20494913|Two suites of minor intrusives are described which invade the most highly metamorphosed parts of the Rosslare Series (Pre-Cambrian). In the east basic sheets were metamorphosed into metadolerites, and locally into green-schists; in the west, appinites have been converted into mylonite-gneisses. These changes parallel those developed in the respective host rocks by the later metamorphic events, but there is no sign of the earliest metamorphic phases within the intrusions. Thus the latter dykes must have been introduced during an interval within the polymetamorphic history of the Rosslare Series. Additional data from basic xenoliths within the Carnsore Granite suggest a possible relationship between the two suites.
20518998|A detailed study has been carried out on Mortarstown, Fontstown and Elton soils which occur close together in County Kildare. The Fontstown series, which has well-developed discontinuous A2 and B2t horizons and a rather shallow profile in places, is derived from highly calcareous (44%-60% CaCO) coarse-textured drift. The Mortarstown series is a deeper fine-textured soil developed in a fairly permeable material containing 30%-44% CaCO. On the other hand, the Elton soil, which is derived from less calcareous drift (23%-33%) composed of shale, sandstone and limestone, shows only weak accumulation of clay in the B horizon. Physical and chemical analyses of representative profiles for each series are presented, together with observations on the mineralogy and micromorphology of selected horizons within each soil. Environmental differences such as relief and rainfall are not thought to be important factors in the genesis of these soils. Morphological and compositional differences between the soils are best explained on the basis of differences in their respective parent materials and, to a lesser extent, relief. The Mortarstown and Fontstown series are classified as Grey-Brown Podzolic soils (Typic Hapludalfs) while the Elton soil is classified as a Brown Earth (Ruptic-Alfic Eutrochrept).
20518971|A revision has been made of the geographical distribution in Ireland of the dichotomous species of the green alga Codium. The presence of C. fragile (Sur.) Hariot subsp. atlanticum (Cotton) Silva on the east coast is reported for the first time and seasonal observations over a period of years described. C. fragile (Sur.) Hariot subsp. tomentosoides (van Goor) Silva, of recent occurrence in European waters, was found to be represented in Ireland by only a single record in 1941. New data confirm that this taxon, known for its ability to spread rapidly, is now well established on Irish coasts.
20494549|The reproductive allocation of Plantago coronopus L. (Plantaginaceae) was examined in 57 populations from Ireland; it was found to vary from 14% to 64% and was both habitat-correlated (rock crevice populations, mean 33%; non-rock populations, 48%) and location-correlated (north coast populations, 24%; west coast, 41%; south coast, 41%; east coast, 49%). Other measured characteristics, e.g. seed output, number of flowers/plant, etc., followed similar trends. There was a non-linear positive correlation between percentage reproductive allocation and total plant dry weight. Seed output (number of seeds/unit leaf area) in the rest of the genus has been shown to vary from annuals to perennials. Comparison with Irish P. coronopus populations suggests that on the north and west coasts and in rock crevice habitats the species may be perennial, in contrast to populations from the east and south coasts and non-rock crevice sites. This conclusion is supported by casual field observation.
20494305|During the electrolysis of alkali chloride solutions, chlorate is formed without evolution of oxygen at a thin diaphragm interposed between the acidic anolyte and alkaline catholyte when the anodic gases are syphoned over into the catholyte. This is due to chemical chlorate formation at the interface. Results obtained with a Pt. electrode cell with the anode and cathode compartments separated by membranes of dimensions comparable with those of an anode diffusion layer, where the anolyte was maintained at pH &lt; 3, and the catholyte at pH &gt; 9, and where the gases evolved at the anode (found to be oxygen-free chlorine) were recycled into the catholyte, produced chlorate at current efficiencies comparable with the performance of a chlorate cell without a diaphragm. It is inferred that anodic oxygen evolution is due to hydroxyl discharge and that anodic chlorate formation is a secondary process however catalysed.
20518975|A lichenological survey of S.E. Ireland in 1973 furnished a list of 203 taxa of which 11 are new to the Irish flora. 242 vice-county records from Carlow, Dublin, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois and Wicklow, together with 1,050 ten-kilometre grid square records (for incorporation into the British Lichen Society's Distribution Maps Scheme), are also enumerated. The ecology and status, based mainly on an appraisal of 33 major sites, are given for each taxon. The inherently poor lichen flora of the area has suffered greatly from extinctions due mainly to deforestation and agricultural practices and to a lesser extent from urbanisation and industrialisation, but is nevertheless under-recorded.
20494251|Changes which occurred in biopsy muscle and in muscle taken immediately after death were studied. The rate of decay of ATP, the hydrolysis of glycogen, formation of lactate and the changes which occurred in muscle pH at 37C under nitrogen were investigated. Marked differences were found in initial ATP levels and in the subsequent rates of anaerobic glycolysis between biopsy and post-mortem muscle. Electrical stimulation of exised muscle accelerated the rate of anaerobic glycolysis. The results suggested that contraction of the musculature at death disrupted the intracellular equilibria and was responsible for variations in the rate of glycolysis.
20494317|The use of metal ions as templates for the cyclic condensation of 2,6-diacetylpyridine with 3,6-diazaoctane-1,8-diamine, and related tetramines, leading to metal complexes of pentadentate macrocyclic ligands in good yield is described. Physical examination of the complexes, including X-ray structure determination, shows that they have structures based on the pentagonal plane with the coordination number of the metal varying from seven, to six, to five depending on whether both, one, or neither of the two axial coordination sites are occupied by unidentate anions or solvent molecules. Coordination geometry appears to be governed mainly by the preferred conformation of the macrocycle. Most commonly this is close to planar but in some cases the ring is folded. The magnetic properties and electronic spectra of some of the transition metal compounds are reported.
20518985|A Principal Coordinates Analysis of species lists of the Collembola of the world shows that their distribution is limited by broad zoogeographical factors, probably associated with Continental Drift, together with short-range ecological determinants. Some evidence for a Gondwanaland or pre-Gondwanaland origin of the group is adduced. The diversity of Asian Collembola, considering the size of the area, seems to be very slight, when compared with that of European Collembola. In all, 70 species lists involving 1,479 species were analysed. Although the Isotomidae are distributed somewhat differently, the Poduridae, Onychiuridae, Entomobryidae and Sminthuridae seem to have much in common in this respect, and can be considered as an entity. Within the West European zoogeographical province, an over-riding ecological factor seems to be the plant cover, which is normally closely associated with the nature of the soil; however, where the plant cover is atypical of the soil, it is the former which determines the collembolan distribution.
20518982|The host plants and density of the late larval instars of two species of cercopid bugs (Neophilaenus lineatus (L.) and Philaenus spumarius (L.)) were studied on two areas of blanket bog in the west of Ireland. N. lineatus was the only species present on one area; on the other area both species were present but there was no overlap of host plants. The maximum densities recorded were 5 per sq. metre for N. lineatus and 10 per sq. metre for P. spumarius. The width of the head between the eyes and the lengths of the fore and hind tibiae were measured on 240 bugs and subjected to a Principal Coordinate Analysis. Both species showed similar and overlapping patterns of growth, but the differential elongation of the fore and hind tibiae separated adult P. spumarius from adult N. lineatus.
20494504|In dimethyl sulphoxide solution, 2-hydroxy-trans-chalcones react stereoselectively with mercury(II) acetate to give cyclic oxymercuration adducts (coumaranones) (step 1), which are isolable but are converted in situ into (Z)-2-(arylmethylene)benzofuran-3(2H)-ones (aurones) (step 2) as the sole organic products. Kinetic studies indicate that step 1 probably involves intramolecular syn-addition of an (aryloxy)mercury(II) acetate to the double bond, and that step 2 occurs by an E2-type antiperiplanar elimination process. In dichloromethane-tetrahydrofuran solution in the presence of a trace of perchloric acid, on the other hand, the chalcones react with mercury(II) acetate to give a cis-trans mixture of 3-(acetoxymercuri)flavanones.
20518935|1. Auchenorhyncha were taken in standard samples of 2 m from Burren grasslands, 15 samples being taken in July and 23 in August-September, 1971. 2. The species and associations of species recorded are discussed and compared with those of similar samples taken from calcareous grasslands in England. 3. The relationship between the structure of the vegetation and the numbers of species, numbers of individual leafhoppers and species-diversity of the samples is examined. 4. An attempt is made to classify the samples by the use of an index of similarity based on the numbers of each species present in the samples. 5. An annotated list is given of Auchenorhyncha collected in the Burren in 1969, 1970 and 1971. 128 species are recorded, of which 30 are new to the Irish fauna. 6. The leafhopper fauna of the Burren is briefly discussed in relation to biogeography, climate and grassland management. Assessment of this fauna is difficult because of the scarcity of information from other parts of Ireland.
20519005|Chlorine atoms in the diazine ring of benzodiazines are removed by dimethyl-sulphoxide with formation of the corresponding oxo-compounds.
20518851|A list is presented of vascular plants recorded from European Turkey. The taxonomy and nomenclature of the list follows Hayek's Prodromus Florae Peninsulae Balcanicae, but the synonyms and taxonomic comment are added when needed, as are also notes on geographical distribution. The list includes 2006 species, of which 309 are not recorded for Thrace in Hayek's Prodromus The leading families are Compositae, Legummosae and Gramineae, with 226, 206 and 168 species respectively Trifolium, with 52 species, is by far the largest genus, and appears to have its centre of diversity in this region. An appendix lists 131 species which the author beheves would probably be found in the area if it were more throughly explored. Localities are given for rare and local species, and there is an index of 150 place-names. The list is compiled primarily from published sources, including many little-known papers in Bulgarian and Turkish, but some unpublished records from the Aznavour herbarium and elsewhere have been included.
20518862|A new Trinucleid is described and figured from the Climacograptus peltifer zone (Caradoc Series) of Grangegeeth, Co. Meath. The name Decordinaspis bispinosa is suggested. Family TRINUCLEIDAE Hawle and Corda, 1847 Sub-family TRETASPIDINAE Whittington, 1941 Genus Decordinaspis nov.
20494874|Studies carried out in the Burren, Co. Clare, on the floristics of grike-floors and woodland-floors showed that there were three groups of plants present. One of these groups was found solely in the grikes, a second solely in the woodland and a third in both habitats. Micro-environmental studies of these habitats and of the ground surface showed that the grikes and the woodland were similar to each other with respect to the ground surface, but that there were suggestions of differences between themselves. Tentative, correlations are made between the floristic differences and the variations in micro-environments of the two habitats.
20518942|The northern end of the west of Ireland Namurian tectonic basin covers west Co. Clare. The sedimentology and stratigraphy of the 5,000 feet of rock exposed over this north part of the basin are described in general terms. Using these descriptions, comparisons are made with Recent sediments with a resulting interpretation which suggests that the Namurian sedimentary pile is a 'classic basin filling sequence' of deep water, euxinic shale and sub-sea turbidite fan deposits at the base, covered by slumped continental shelf and slope deposits, with the basin finally being filled by sediments deposited in deltaic cyclothems. Combining the environment interpretations and the stratigraphy, a paleogeoraphy is suggested showing the west Co. Clare part of the basin being filled from the west; first by a westerly building turbidite sub-sea fan during H to R1 times, then by an advancing, unstable continental shelf and slope and finally, from late R1 times to R2 times, by deltas fringing a westerly-moving coastline.
20494281|The Craigballyharky granitic complex, emplaced into the Tyrone Basic Plutonic Complex probably during the mid Ordovician period, comprises quartz-diorite, tonalite, biotite-granodiorite and aphyric microgranodiorite units. Quartz-diorite envelopes the tonalite and grades outwards into the Basic Plutonic Complex rocks from which it is probably derived. The tonalite, characterised by large quartz megacrysts, displays transitional contacts with diorite and its intrusion appears to have been accompanied by reciprocal reaction with the basic country rocks. Aphyric microgranodiorite bosses have a restricted distribution within the tonalite unit and are interpreted as a K-rich peripheral facies to the main biotite-granodiorite. The evolution of the complex can be explained by the injection of an initial pulse of granodioritic or tonalitic magma into the Basic Plutonic Complex. Metasomatic alteration of the adjacent basic rocks, by Na-Si-rich hydrous magmatic fluids emanating from the magma, produced the heterogeneous quartz-diorite envelope, and in conjunction the periphery, if not the entire intrusion, was reciprocally contaminated. A further pulse of granodioritic magma into the solidified tonalite was accompanied by minimal interaction with the earlier intrusion. The build up of K and Na in the marginal zone of this biotite-granodiorite can be attributed to diffusion of alkalis from the body of the magma towards its margins.
20494350|Early herring larvae (7-12mm) were sampled in Galway Bay over three winters and at each station concurrent measurements were made of eight environmental variables. The distribution and abundance of larvae were examined for relationships with the environmental variables by multiple regression but no consistently significant association was found. Horizontal distributions of larval density and larval size under light wind conditions may be explained by a circulatory pattern proposed by Booth (1975 Unpublished M.Sc. thesis, National University of Ireland). The vertical distribution of larvae during daylight showed a general pattern of maximum abundance at or near the surface with a decrease in abundance with increasing depth. No relationship was found between the mean depth of larvae and factors which would determine the light intensity sensed by the larvae. Larval size did not vary significantly throughout the depth range.
20518840|The Old Red Sandstone of the Kerry Head anticline, 2,060 feet thick, is described and subdivided. The field and petrographical evidence points to the rocks having been mainly lacustrine-deltaic deposits, derived from a region of metamorphic rocks. The base of the system (here all Upper Old Red Sandstone) is not exposed, but from a comparison with neighbouring areas it is shown that erosion has almost reached it.
20519001|The arthropod fauna of six grass and weed species commonly occurring in local grassland was sampled on six occasions between December 1970 and September 1972. The plant species were Lolium perenne L., Dactylis glomerata L., Rumex obtusifolius L., Urtica dioica L., Ranunculus repens L. and Senecio jacobea L. Two hundred and sixty-two arthropod species in all were recorded, over 50% of which were members of the class Acari. Only 39 species occurred with relative abundance of 1% or greater on any host species. Mean numbers of arthropods varied from 11 per g dry wt on Rumex to 29 per g on Urtica. The Acari, Collembola, Hemiptera and Thysanoptera were the most abundant groups, their relative abundance varying with plant species. There was considerable intersampling data variation in numbers of major taxonomic groups and species on all host plant species. A check-list of arthropod species occurring and their densities on the various host plant species is appended.
20494275|Breccia-pipes related in time and space to the Caledonian pluton of Ardara are composed of fragments of metamorphic rock in a sparse igneous matrix. The fragments are dominated by marbles, quartzite, and metadolerite and all stages can be observed in their disruption, comminution and alteration according to the distance the fragments have been carried in the intrusions. The matrices of the intrusions are varied and relate in some examples to the igneous rocks of nearby larger diorite intrusions. The alteration of xenoliths is attributed to infiltration metasomatism and the chemistry of this process is discussed. The mechanics of brecciation and intrusion appear to be related to the formation of the dioritic intrusions and to the release of an aqueous phase as the intrusive material reached particular crustal levels. In some intrusions iron oxide veins effect a second brecciation.
20518864|Two granophyres, separated by a period of volcanic vent and brecciation action, were intruded beneath a thick cover of basalt lavas and gabbro. The second granophyre, which appears to form a ring-dyke, shows systematic modal, textural and mineralogical variations from the chilled margin inwards. When plotted on the synthetic NaAlSiO--KAlSiO--SiO-- HO diagram, these granophyres fall on a smooth path which suggests fractional crystallization on the quartz-feldspar cotectic curve commencing at about 500 bars water-vapour pressure, rising to about 3000 bars and then falling to about 2000 bars. The direction of the path of crystallization suggests that the Carlingford acid magma was produced by a partial melting process of argillaceous material. The shales and greywackes of the Southern Uplands geosyncline would be suitable source rocks. The melting mechanism is considered to be connected with the presence of a large reservoir of basic rock under the complex.
20494437|A survey of the littoral macroinvertebrate fauna of Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland, was undertaken in July 1981. The habitat could effectively be divided into sandy and rocky shore types with faunal assemblages characteristic of each. A number of interesting species records and distribution patterns were observed.
20518951|Material from 173 Irish waters holding rudd was studied by the authors. The material included collections of eggs, larvae, post-larvae, fry, juveniles and adult rudd. The rudd is probably an introduced species in Ireland. It occurs in nearly all suitable habitats in the catchments of the Shannon, Erne and Barrow; in Lough Corrib; in the lakes drained by the Fane, Dee, Glyde and Boyne; in the Lee system; and throughout both the Royal and Grand Canals. Elsewhere it is of sporadic occurrence, mostly in small lakes, ponds, flooded brickpits, quarries and similar situations. It is a still-water species which, during the warmer months of the year, feeds at the surface and also grazes over weeds in shallow water. It spawns mainly from late May to early July in weedy situations, usually close to the shore. Irish rudd eggs measure 1.375-1.75mm in diameter; they are adhesive, transparent and colourless or pale yellow. They usually hatch in 5-7 days. The newly-hatched larva is 5.0-5.9mm long and has adhesive organs on its head. It develops a swim-bladder within 2 days and begins to feed in about a week. The adult fins are completed when the young rudd is approximately 12.5mm fork-length. The first food of the larval rudd is chiefly unicellular algae. By the time the post-larvae attain a length of about 1cm they have begun to feed mostly on Cladocera, which are their main diet for the first two years of life, though chironomid larvae and other invertebrates are also eaten. The diet of older rudd consists mainly of insects of various kinds taken at or close to the surface, together with filamentous algae and the young shoots of vascular plants. Corixids and invertebrates such as Gammarus, Asellus and caddis larvae (mostly picked off the weeds) are also eaten. The rudd is a long-lived, slow-growing fish; examples of rudd up to 17 years old were examined by the authors. The length at the end of the first growing season is usually only between 2.0 and 3.5cm. The fastest-growing rudd are found in limestone lakes of upwards of 80 acres in area. Small, weedy ponds often hold large populations of stunted rudd. Male rudd usually spawn for the first time 3 years after they themselves were spawned; the females usually spawn for the first time when 4 years old. Hybrids between rudd and bream Abramis brama are common in most Irish waters holding both parent species. Hybrids between rudd and roach Rutilus rutilus are much less frequent. The commonest parasites of Irish rudd are Acanthocephalans and the trematode Posthodiplostomulum cuticola (black spot). Rudd appear to be relatively resistant to most bacterial diseases. They are fairly hardy and can survive in water of poor quality.
20494450|A laminated clay deposit of lacustrine origin filling a limestone solution feature below glacial deposits is described The origin and morphology of the solution feature, the surrounding limestone surface and the lacustrine deposit are discussed The lacustrine clays are shown to belong to a Middle Pleistocene interglacial period not previously described in Ireland.
20494340|Investigations are reported on some aspects of the nitrogen economy of flag leaves of three wheat varieties from expansion to senescence. Alkaline pyrophosphatase activity dropped from initial high levels to basal rates by midway through the period. Intervarietal differences in activity appeared to reflect varietal earliness. Proteinase activity showed little increase over the period on a tissue basis but increased markedly on a specific basis. Varietal differences in this regard were significant at the 70% and 90% level respectively. Protein content increased to a peak at midway and then dropped continuously during senescence, while amino nitrogen generally followed an inverse pattern. Both components showed significant varietal differences. Thus protein/amino ratios varied from about 7 at ear emergence to about 12 three weeks later, and back to about 4 at the final sampling. Intervarietal differences in this regard were particularly notable, especially at midway when maximum sink and leaf metabolism would likely occur. One variety in particular, which previously had proved somewhat anomalous in combining high productivity with a poor ability to assimilate late season nitrate, showed a very high ratio, possibly indicating a more efficient use of its assimilated nitrogen complement. Nitrate reductase activity was just about detectable at the first two weekly samplings but not thereafter. This probably arose from the exceptionally dry weather which occurred prior to and during the experiment.
20518949|Evidence that Collembola are tied ecologically to the soil around particular plant species in tundra-type soils is presented, culled mainly from sources in languages other than English, and so not commonly recognised. This evidence is confirmed by extraction of the soils and vegetation associated with identified plants from blanket bog at Glenamoy, Co. Mayo (from virgin bog, an afforested plot, and a grassland plot, the latter two areas on modified peat). Waterlogging drives the Collembola out of the peat in the spring, when severe mortality occurs, partly associated with lack of shelter. The heat-sink implicit in a blanket bog ensures that the Collembola have a small proportion of dark species characteristic of tropical, rather than sub-arctic, latitudes. Collembolan species choose plant root-stem systems on a host-specific basis so as to minimise competition between related species, and seem to exploit most of the available resources (ecological niches) in the bog. Each plant species forms an almost closed ecosystem so far as collembolan distribution is concerned. Even abundant species are not, or only rarely, found, under some common plants. Some evidence is adduced for an hypothesis of Levins, that the abundance of an animal depends on the number of resources it can exploit, rather than its efficiency at exploiting any one resource. Large faunal changes following afforestation and sowing the peat to grass, after levelling and fertilising, were found, the changes being different in the two cases. It seems unlikely that Collembola play a large part in the mean energy-flow in the virgin bog, though they might well do so in a few selected plant systems. Since the uses of virgin blanket bog depend on the productivity of a few individual plant species, the relevance of attempts to assess average energy flow in blanket bogs is questioned.
20494412|Reaction of atanine (1) with N-bromosuccinimide gave a mixture of a bromofuroquinoline (3) and a bromo-pyranoquinoline (4); the latter was converted into 5-methoxy-2,2-dimethyl-2H-pyrano[2, 3-b]quinoline (5). Reaction of an N-methyl-3-prenyl-quinolone (6) with N-chlorosuccinimide furnished a chloro-pyrano-quinolone (7) which was converted into N-methylflindersine (8; R = Me); two other syntheses of the latter alkaloid are described.
20494255|A study of a population of fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus was carried out from October 1970 to May 1971 in mixed woodland, using mark-recapture methods. The population density was extremely low and breeding commenced earlier than has previously been recorded for fieldmice in the British Isles. The mice showed a marked preference for heavy cover and their observed mean range length was rather greater than is usual. The possible relations between these phenomena are discussed and potential sources of sampling and other errors examined.
20519013|Acetate and pyruvate are shown to be specifically incorporated into the C-2 unit of eleagnine in Eleagnus angustifolia. N-acetyltryptamine is shown not to be involved in the biosynthesis of this alkaloid.
20519038|Rates of tissue perfusion in rat skeletal muscles were measured on a comparative basis by examining rates of uptake of tritiated water and of C-ethanol into muscle fibres following their injection into the circulation in the conscious and anaesthetised animals. The results obtained were compared with relative rates of influx of Rb under similar conditions. Following unilateral section of the sciatic nerve at mid-thigh 3-6 days previously, the effects of this on both Rb influx and tissue nutrient blood flow were also examined to determine whether there was a correlation between them. The general anaesthetic, pentobarbital decreased the rates of influx of Rb and also the rate of tissue perfusion in tonic muscles as did also denervation in the case of the conscious rats. Nerve section also increased both rates in the EDL muscles of anaesthetised rats, while having no apparent effect on tonic muscles under these conditions. Application of a Iidocaine impregnated cuff to the sciatic nerve produced parallel effects on Rb influx and on tritiated water uptake in the conscious rats, increasing both in the tonic muscle but decreasing both in the EDL muscles. While the correlation found in many cases suggested an interdependance of cation uptake and nutrient blood flow there were exceptions which lead us to doubt a direct interdependance. For example in the case of EDL muscles of conscious rats denervation increased Rb uptake but reduced influx of tritiated water. We conclude that rubidium uptake by skeletal muscle fibres may be largely dependent on permeability of the muscle fibre membrane and in that respect may be independent of tissue perfusion.
20494525|The electro-oxidation of organic species at low potentials is of interest in connection with fuel cell development, but unfortunately in many cases, e.g. methanol oxidation, a deactivating product (
20494421|The control of ostertagiasis, a parasitic disease endemic in sheep, has been examined using a discrete time network representation of the life-cycle of Ostertagia circumcincta. The system is developed for the case of stochastic inputs which enables the extent of variability in adult worm burdens in sheep to be determined during the grazing season. Disease levels are examined in relation to various recognised control techniques based on pasture switching and anthelmintic drug treatment.
20494357|Investigations are reported on nutrient deficiency effects on nitrate reductase, alkaline pyrophosphatase, and proteinase in wheat. Nitrate reductase activity was increasingly restricted in the absence of nitrate, phosphorus or iron. In some instances -- notably potassium, calcium and the minor elements -- initial reductions were followed by increased rates in older stunted plants. Alkaline pyrophosphatase was influenced by prolonged deficiency only, when rates were increased in the absence of calcium or phosphorus and reduced in the absence of sulphur, nitrogen or iron. Proteolytic activity in the absence of potassium, sulphur, iron or manganese was high initially but fell in older plants. A reverse trend was shown by the control, phosphorus, boron or molybdenum, with calcium and magnesium deficiencies somewhat intermediate. Shoot weights and shoot/root ratios were generally reduced by deficiency as was tillering, except in the absence of calcium where there was 100% increase.
20494518|Diurnal changes in the extracellular concentration of the dopamine metabolite, homovanillic acid (HVA), were measured in the rat striatum, using linear sweep voltammetry with carbon paste electrodes. A Doppler-shift microwave device allowed simultaneous recording of the animals' motor activity over 24h. periods. To test the possibility that the diurnal changes in striatal HVA concentration reported previously are associated with feeding/satiety rather than with locomotion, HVA levels and motor activity were measured in the presence and absence of food. No significant difference in either the size of the nocturnal increase in the two variables or in their correlation coefficient was observed under these two conditions, suggesting that the diurnal changes in dopamine metabolism measured under normal conditions are not related to feeding behaviour.
20494529|The reaction of lead(II) nitrate with a mixture of [M(-CHR)(CO)(L)] and I salts generated in situ by the sodium amalgam reduction of [M(-CHR)(CO)(L)I] in tetrahydrofuran gives the [PbI{M(-CHR)(CO)(L)}] complexes (M=Mo or W; R=H or Me; L=P(OMe), P(OEt), PPhEt or
20494846|It had been established that the oxygen consumption of animal tissues exhibits a sequence of maxima which are related to temperature and that these maxima result from a surface action of the fatty acids in molecular order. It was subsequently found that, in normal tissues, the maxima are associated with an increase in the proportion of fat burnt. Respiratory quotients indicating predominant carbohydrate oxidation occur in the intervening minima. The influence of insulin on these events is investigated on liver and brain slices and on the skin of the mouse. With increasing doses of insulin the discontinuities in the oxygen consumption disappear or diminish and the respiratory quotient becomes constant over the range of temperature. The influence of temperature on oxidation in the brain does not differ in principle from that in the other tissues but the general level of oxidation is much influenced by the presence or absence of glucose. The bearing of these results on the significance of insulin in metabolism is discussed.
20494430|Residual beachface sediment budget and longshore sediment cells based on wave refraction simulation are derived for a 30km unit of the Ards Peninsula, Co. Down. The crenellate plan-view morphology of this coastal unit tests the utility of this theoretical approach. The simulation comprised wave refraction using characteristic wave climate values of deepwater wave height and wave period for seven wave vectors influencing the Ards coast. The longshore potential wave power for each wave direction is weighted by the wave's directional occurrence to produce residual longshore wave power values at regular positions along the coast. Cell structure is defined in terms of both reversals in longshore wave power direction and differences between adjacent wave power values. The Ards coast is theoretically dominated by eight major cells with numerous drift reversals. Discrepancies between observed and predicted beach deposition are a function of wave shadow presence and inheritance effects resulting from very low frequency events which are not easily specified in the wave climate characterisation. The use of this theoretical approach on irregular coastal morphology is recommended.
20519035|Bull's Head, Annascaul and Derrymore Glen inliers have been remapped and compared with the adjacent Dunquin and Inishvickillane inliers. Three new formations are erected within the Silurian Dunquin Group: the upper Wenlock Annascaul Formation comprising approximately 1192 m of shale, sandstone, siltstone, volcanics and carbonates, with a shelly fauna mostly confined to the tuffaceous Ballynane Member near the top; the scanicus Zone Caherconree Formation consisting of graptolitic shaly siltstones; and the shallow water Leintwardinian, Derrymore Glen Formation consisting of shelly calcareous siltstones. Thickness in the Ludlow is unknown. Small Caledonian folds affect the Derrymore Glen Formation, while Armorican folds occur throughout, associated with an Armorican cleavage. Armorican faults are common and the inliers are mostly fault bounded. In upper Wenlock and Ludlow times a marine palaeoslope apparently dipped east-north-east from the Blasket Islands area, with a maximum gradient in scanicus Zone times.
20494447|One of several cores extracted from sand-dune slacks near Carnsore Point, Co. Wexford, was analysed for its pollen, pteridophyte spore, grass phytolith and algal content. The core from the most important borehole, borehole 3, consisted of blue-grey reduced sands superimposed on shattered granite in a light brown clay matrix; light yellow oxidised sands with thin dune palosol horizons occurred above the blue-grey sediments. The main aim of research was to establish the conditions under which the blue-grey sediments were deposited to see if they gave an indication of the general course of landform development in the area. The microfossils showed that a freshwater pond or lagoon was infilled before c. 2300 b.p. The pollen evidence suggests that heath and possibly woody scrub vegetation occurred locally before 2300 b.p. but thereafter grasses, sedges, Composit (Liguliflor) and Plantago major/media predominated and pollen concentrations decreased.
20494341|The flora and vegetation of sixteen islands in Loch Corrib, western Ireland, are described. Two types of island were found, limestone and acid sandstone, and each was covered with a different array of vegetation types. Woodland and shore zones are found on both types of island, while an additional fen zone occurs on limestone ones. Species number is shown to be quantitatively related to island size.
20518984|Rate constants have been determined for the reactions: Pt(bipy)(C)Cl+en=Pt(bipy)en+C+Cl (C=Cl, Br, SCN, N, NO). The second-order rate constants of these reactions are all of similar magnitude. This is in marked contrast to the results previously reported for the replacement of chloride in these complexes by unidentate nucleophiles. Possible mechanisms for the reactions are discussed.
20494391|Slieve Bloom comprises a series of some sixteen inliers of Silurian age overlain unconformably by a cover of Upper Old Red Sandstone rocks. The stratigraphy and sedimentology of the Silurian rocks are described, and it is concluded that lithological associations particularly characteristic of the lower fan and fan fringe sub-environments of the canyon-fan system are especially prominent. The rocks yield a sparse graptolite fauna which suggests a Monograptus riccartonensis Zone age. The structure of the area is relatively simple: folding of the rocks is open to close about generally north-east/south-west trending axes; there is a single variably developed cleavage, which is often non axial-planar.
20494446|This paper describes the stomach contents of two sympatric populations of brown trout (locally termed 'dollaghan' and 'salmon-trout') obtained from commercial gill nets set in Lough Neagh between April and August. Seasonal changes in diet were investigated using volume, occurrence and dominance methods, which showed a mainly benthic diet in spring progressing to one dominated by mid-water and surface organisms during summer. Schoener indices indicated quantitative segregation during April which decreased during the summer as chironomid pup and adults formed the bulk of the diet of both populations. Larger trout tended to eat fish. The results are discussed in relation to the diet of brown trout in other lakes.
20494937|The tench in Ireland is an introduced species which had a restricted distribution within the country. Since 1956 its range has been extended by transplantations into many small lakes. In Ireland, tench usually spawn in the second half of June and in July, but in some waters not until August. They may fail to spawn in some years in certain waters. A water temperature of 20C or more is necessary for spawning. Spawning takes place amongst "grassy" vegetation in the marginal shallows and also over thick weed reaching to near the surface some distance from shore. The ova are 1.3-1.4mm in diameter, and hatch in about 5 days. The larvae are 4.0-5.5mm long. They have pigmented eyes, and a dense black stripe extending from the eye back along the top of the gut and along the ventral edge of the tail, but no black pigment elsewhere. They hang from the vegetation, with which they merge. The yolk-sac is absorbed in about 10 days, when the fish measures 6.0-6.5mm. The first food comprises unicellular algae, cladocera and copepods. Cladocera and copepods are the chief foods of tench up to 14cm long, but they also eat the young stages of aquatic insects. The chief foods of larger tench are molluscs, caddis and chironomid larvae, ephemeropteran nymphs and Asellus. Tench are almost entirely carnivorous. Males and females are mature three years after they themselves were spawned; where the growth rate is slow, spawning females may be as small as 12cm. In rich, alkaline waters, female tench average 39.4cm and 955g at 7 years of age; but in less productive waters female tench of the same age may average only 27.5cm and 310g. The males grow more slowly than the females after the first two years or so. In Ireland, growth in the early years is slower than in Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia but later the faster-growing Irish tench catch up with the Continental fish.
20494343|The arthropod fauna of old pasture and leys of red clover, ryegrass and mixed clover and ryegrass was sampled by the "D-Vac" suction method at monthly intervals between May and September 1976. Mean populations ranged from 1800 to 3300m with Collembola being dominant and Acari and Diptera also being abundant. Two hundred and ten taxa were recorded including forty-eight of Acari, forty-five of Coleoptera and thinty-eight of Diptera. Arthropod abundance and species richness were similar in all sward types but principal coordinate analysis revealed some influence of sward type on community structure. No relationships between sward floral diversity and arthropod diversity and stability were found. It was considered that the absence of such relationships might be due to the overriding effects of intensive management for silage.
20494389|Extensive deposits of tufa (spring-chalk) have formed on the surface of glaciogenic sediments left by the Midlandian (Last) glaciation in County Offaly, near Roscrea. Rich molluscan and ostracod assemblages from these tufas have been investigated from two sites (1) near Millpark House (2) near the Gloster Estate. Relatively high proportions of land snails are present at both sites, providing a rare insight into the terrestrial mollusc faunas of the middle Postglacial (Littletonian) in Ireland. Vertigo alpestris, a species unknown living in Ireland, was present at Millpark, as was Zenobiella subrafescens; this constitutes its first fossil record from Ireland. A pollen spectrum from a thin bed of peat separating the tufa from the underlying drift at Millpark was rich in Corylus and Quercus with significant amounts of Alnus and indicates an age after the beginning of zone VII. A radiocarbon date of 3190  170 (BM-1738) was obtained from charcoal from the upper levels of the Millpark tufa. At Gloster, the molluscan fauna was dominated by terrestrial species, principally Leiostyla anglica. Several arctic-alpine species, Vertigo genesii, V. geyeri and Catinella arenaria were also present in the basal samples. The record of Vertigo lilljeborgi from Gloster represents its only secure fossil occurrence in Ireland. Pollen analysis from the basal peat at Gloster again revealed rich Corylus and Quercus, but Alnus values were low, suggesting an earlier age than at Millpark. The assemblages from both sites are compared with others described from the British Isles and elsewhere.
20494534|The solid state structures of the 3-O-p-tolylsulfonyl (2), and 2-O-methyl-3-O-p-tolylsulfonyl (3) derivatives of methyl 4,6-O-benzylidene--d-galactopyranoside (1) were investigated by X-ray crystallography. The chair-chair conformations (2a and 3a) in which the phenyl group is in the stable equatorial orientation to be expected from benzylidenation under equilibrating conditions, are confirmed for (2) and (3) respectively.
20519033|Investigations are reported in which the in vitro nitrate reductase activity of twelve wheat varieties that were being evaluated as potential breeding stock was examined under field and glasshouse conditions. The examination was aimed principally at the derivation of possible relationships between both vegetative and grain productivity and nitrate assimilation capacity, as measured by N.R.A. Productivity was assessed in terms of both yield and protein yield. Relationships (in the form of regressions) of vegetative productivity on assimilation capacity were exceptionally close at both the germination and post-tillering stages. This closeness did not, however, appear to be maintained to the grain production stage. Physiological and agronomic reasons for this are discussed. The possible use of biochemical criteria in the screening of breeding stocks is also discussed.
20518858|The paper cites the author's earlier discovery (Proc. R. Irish Acad., 61 B 7) of the peculiarity of growth ("protrusive growth") in the "duplex" caudal gills of agrionid dragonfly larvae. It refers to the manner in which dark bands ("chevron bands") are generated in the protruded parts of some of these gills, ascribing this to occlusion of foreign matter in course of imbibition of water for respiratory purpose. It suggests that a muff-like dark coating of the tracheae in some of these gills is also due to settlement of fine detrital matter. It bases on these observations and on descriptions of agrionid gill-structure in the literature, the hypothesis that respiration by the duplex gills is effected by admission of oxygen-bearing water to the tracheation within the gill rather than by diffusion of oxygen through the surface of the gill.
20494562|Sixty species of moth fly (Diptera: Psychodidae) are recorded from Ireland. Of these, 34 were added to the Irish list during the present study. One species, Mormia satchelli (Jung), was previously unknown in the British Isles.
20494283|This is the first detailed account of the biology of the shanny in Irish waters. 841 specimens were collected over a period of thirteen months at the shores of Carna, Connemara. In the population, females are more numerous than males. Both sexes grow at the same rate, and although they have a potential life-span of fourteen years, few specimens live more than five years. The spawning season extends from April to late July or early August. Most of the shannies are three years old when they spawn for the first time. The food of young specimens consists mainly of copepods, ostracods and mites; older fish have a more varied diet, the main items being algae, gastropods and barnacles. The biology of the shanny at Carna is basically similar to its biology at Menai Straits. There are some differences however, which appear to be due to the exposed conditions at Carna.
20494250|The area investigated, 250 sq km in size, comprises one half of the Lower Palaeozoic outcrop on the western side of the Leinster Granite. The rocks are classed, mainly on their lithology, as Silurian. They are largely a greywacke succession and display the sedimentary features normally associated with ancient turbidite sequences. Five conformable formations, each with distinctive petrographical characteristics, are differentiated. These are, from oldest to youngest, the Pollaphuca, Slate Quarries, Glen Ding, Tipperkevin and Carrighill Formations. The total thickness is 1840+ metres. Although palaeocurrent data is scarce, measurements indicate that all formations were derived, in the main, from the north-east to south-east sector. To the east, at the start of Silurian times, lay a large Irish Sea Landmass. West of this, in the present area, laterally derived turbidites were deposited, initially proximal and later distal in nature.
20494325|The arthropod fauna of cattle manure applied periodically as slurry at two different rates to grassland was studied. Arthropod numbers ranged from 20 to 40 per g with Collembola followed by Acari and, to a lesser extent, dipterous larvae and Coleoptera being the most abundant taxa. A total of 144 species were recorded during the study of which Acari accounted for 71 and Collembola 25. Analysis of dominance yielded little evidence of collembolan succession related to age of slurry but in the case of the acarine fauna dominance ranking changed rather more with time. In general, however, the arthropod community displayed relatively high stability both in terms of species composition and numerical abundance. This stability was attributed to resource renewal through periodic addition of slurry during the course of the study.
20519031|Size-frequency distributions of the sponges Grantia and Sycon associated with the serrated wrack Fucus serratus in Strangford Lough have been studied. Smaller individuals of Grantia were less determinate in shape than were larger individuals and tended to occur on the less preferred convex surface of the fucoid. Although basal segments were more frequently colonised, individual sponges were smaller than on the more central segments. Sycon was more determinate in shape and size than Grantia. Individuals on convex surfaces were generally smaller in height than individuals of similar width on the concave surfaces. Sycon was generally higher where other individuals were present on the same segment face. The gross distribution of these sponges at the Dorn is largely determined by abiotic factors though our results do suggest that competition may prove to be a more potent factor than suggested by purely distributional studies.
20494515|The distribution of eight analogues of clofazimine between n-octanol and aqueous phosphate buffer (pH = 5.15) was studied over the temperature range 20-55C. The thermodynamic parameters for the solute transfer were evaluated from the Van't Hoff isochore. The results were analysed for enthalpy-entropy compensation effects. Interfacial transfer kinetics were determined for these solutes and the data compared to those employing a theoretical model relating partition coefficients and transport rate constants. The experiments are designed to investigate, under carefully controlled laboratory conditions, physicochemical processes common to many biological and pharmaceutical partitioning systems.
20494282|Surveys of seven mutations for coat colour, pattern and texture in domestic cats of Dublin and Limerick reveal no significant differences between the two cities. Furthermore, there are no obvious and consistent distinctions between these Irish samples and those for several locations in Great Britain. Further studies will be required to assess the overall homogeniety or heterogeneity of Irish cats.
20494561|Wild salmon (Salmo salar) were killed by a sharp blow to the head. Some were killed without any pretreatment; others were anaesthetised with MS-222 or were electrically stunned before killing. The initial concentration of ATP in the myotomal muscle was considerably lower in electrically stunned fish (7.0  2.5mol/g) than in anaesthetised fish (15.8  0.8mol/g) or in fish killed without pretreatment (10.0  1.04mol/g). Electrical stunning accelerated the rate of loss of ATP from muscle during the onset of rigor. The half-life of ATP was 2-3 hours for electrically stunned fish compared with 12h for the other two groups of fish. The rate of loss of creatine phosphate and of fall in pH was considerably increased by electrical stunning. The results indicated that electrical stunning accelerates the rate of onset of rigor mortis in wild salmon.
20518880|Measurements of the speed of contraction and relaxation of single isometric twitches were carried out on rat biceps brachii muscles of different ages. After a rapid initial decrease, the contraction-relaxation time was found to remain constant for the rest of the animal's lifetime. Cytological examination showed that the initial change in the speed of the muscles was associated solely with the completion of the post-natal, "embryological" differentiation of the fibres. The stimulation thresholds of the fibres of this muscle were scanned by gradually increasing the stimulation voltage using a motor-driven potentiometer. One, two or three groups of fibres could be selectively activated and detected depending on the age of the muscle. Quantitative cytological analysis on a series of muscles of different ages indicated that the fibres of the rat biceps brachii develop in a "step-wise" fashion; differentiation--SMALL PHASE FIBRE (diam. = 20 ); slight myofibril synthesis and hypertrophy--INTERMEDIATE PHASE FIBRE (diam. = 33 ); extensive myofibril synthesis and hypertrophy --LARGE PHASE FIBRE (diam. = 60 ). The calculated strength of the fibres in each of the three developmental phases was found to coincide with the recorded tensions of the three groups of fibres that could be selectively activated by the threshold scanning procedure.
20494247|Different types of peat were subjected to various extraction procedures. These included Soxhlet extraction (using benzene/ethanol) aqueous, dilute acid and dilute alkali extractions carried out at different temperatures. A fermentable substrate was obtained which would support the growth of Candida utilis. A dilute acid extract supported greater biomass yields than any of the other extraction procedures and the higher the temperature at which this extraction was carried out the greater the biomass yield obtained.
20494519|Thermal depolarisation currents have been measured in thallous chloride crystals doped with cationic, Sr and Pb, anionic,
20519020|The invertebrate fauna of three widely differing freshwater habitats in Ireland is presented in terms of indices of species diversity. Some characteristics of these measurements are given and the variation of diversity in time in the three habitats is described. The application of the results to pollution monitoring is discussed.
20494916|This paper consists of a list of the planktonic copepoda found during a survey off the Co. Galway Coast, some data on copepod population density and types of copepods present in the plankton throughout a year, together with observations on sex ratio, breeding seasons and parasites. Forty-two species of copepoda are recorded during the survey from which this information is derived. Three of these are new to Ireland, four species are new to the west coast and seven are new to the area; four fresh-water copepod species were taken for which no previous record, not only of their occurrence in the sea but in the case of three of these species, in lakes or rivers of Ireland, can be found. Of the copepod species recorded four are semi-parasitic.
20494915|A collection of reared OPIINAE (HYM., BRACONIDAE), placed at the disposal of the author by Dr. G. C. D. Griffiths (East Barnet, London), has been studied. The new species from Ireland, Opius tenellae, which has been described, belongs to the fallax group (Section B) and is distinguished from the most closely similar forms, Opius seductus Fischer and O. tobiasi Fischer, by the ovipositor (which is half as long again as the abdomen) and by r2, which is three-quarters as long again as cuqu1. Nineteen further species are listed with their hosts, host plants and provenances. The new accounts are contrasted with those already known.
20494565|The distribution and abundance of the fish species inhabiting the shores and immediate sublittoral waters of Inishmore, Aran Islands, Co. Galway, were investigated. The two major habitat types were rocky shores and sandy shores. Thirty-two species of fish were recorded from sandy shores and 21 species from rocky shores; 11 species were common to both shore types. All of the sandy shore species also occurred sublittorally; some of them were associated with algae only, being found among dirftweed. Only Lipophrys pholis and Coryphoblennius galerita were found confined to the littoral zone of the rocky shores; the other rocky shore species also occurred sublittorally. The most obvious movements of fish species in the littoral zone were those onto the shore. However, many species moved further up the shore in summer. The most exposed shores yielded the smallest number of fish species.
20519065|The results of recent investigations of intrazeolitic chromium using many modern experimental techniques are reviewed. These studies have shown that the influence of the structure and charged framework of the host zeolite produces some novel and unusual chromium chemistry. However, it is also observed that some effects of pretreatment conditions in more general investigations remain unexplained. The paper demonstrates how a spectroscopic investigation of chromium in a number of different zeolitic environments and concerned primarily with the electronic structure of the intrazeolitic complexes can help to explain these unusual effects and identify the species produced by them. Mechanisms for the oxidation of intrazeolitic Cr(III) to Cr(V) and Cr(VI) by atmospheric oxygen and without lattice collapse are proposed.
20494863|From 1958 to 1961 inclusive a total of 365 fish were tagged and 124 (33.9%) were recaptured. The longest migration was to the Aberdeenshire Dee on the east coast of Scotland. The majority of the fish were recaptured to the west of the tagging station, and were at liberty less than thirty days from the time of liberation. Few fish travelled more than 100 miles. Over 70% travelled at speeds of less than 5 miles per day.
20494394|The author presents a report on the Haliday collection of Mymaridae, which is the oldest and most important in existence. The major part is housed in the Natural History Division of the National Museum of Ireland, Dublin; other parts have been found in the Hope Entomological Collections in Oxford, and in the Spinola collection in Turin. A historical account of the collection is included. Every specimen of the 222 has been examined and as far as possible identified. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated where appropriate and descriptions of lectotypes given where the species is not well known and the original description is inadequate. The genera covered by the work of Haliday and his contemporaries are treated individually; the identity of some dubious type-species of genera is discussed and some synonymy has been adjusted to bring the nomenclature up to date. A few species other than Haliday's have been included where required to make the synonymy, or treatment of the species or genus more complete. A key to some British species of Anagrus is given, to assist preliminary sorting in this genus. Separate lists of all specimens in the different parts of Haliday's collection are provided. Serial numbers are attached to the specimens in each part and these numbers are entered in the corresponding lists to facilitate later investigation.
20494299|The preparation and characterisation of some new -bonded -unsaturated organic derivatives of tin (SnR, SnR, SnRCl, SnMeR, SnMeR, and SnMeR; R = -CPh = CMe, R = -CMe, and R = -CPh = CPh) is reported. Preliminary crystallographic details are presented for SnR, establishing the Sn-C bond length and showing the absence of delocalisation in the 1-phenyl-2, 2-dimethyl-ethenyl ligand when bonded to tin. On photolysis, SnMeR rearranges to 9-phenyl-10-trimethylstannylphenanthrene, apparently without cleavage of the Sn-C bond.
20494419|The antitumour activity of 2-aryl-4-oxo-2,3-dihydro-benzopyrano[2,3-d]pyrimidines and 2-aryl-4-hydroxy-5H-benzopyrano[2,3-d]pyrimidines is described. Other 4-substituted 2-aryl-5H-benzopyrano[2,3-d]pyrimidines are produced from the condensation of 2-hydroxybenzaldehydes with derivatives of 2-aminoethylene-1-carbonitrile in neutral or basic solution. In acid solution this reaction also yields various derivatives of pyridine and of 3-cyanochromen.
20494920|The mapped area, within the Connemara Schists, has been found to contain characteristic members of the Lower Dalradian succession. By tracing the outcrop pattern of marker bands of known horizon a complex structural history has been established. Three phases of isoclinal folding have been recognised and their characteristics are described. A fourth phase, the broad arch of the Connemara Anticline, is also described. Two important thrusts have been recognised and these are shown to have been affected by the third phase of isoclinal folding. It is also suggested that gliding under gravity may have played a part in the tectonic history. Two post tectonic granite stocks intrude and metamorphose the Dalradian metasediments. Both the granites and the thermal metamorphism are briefly described.
20494331|The kinetics of bleaching of the visible absorption spectrum of turkey liver xanthine dehydrogenase may be explained by the redox potentials of the various centres in the enzyme. The extent of "rapid" bleaching by excess of xanthine is directly proportional to the content of functional active sites in the enzyme samples used. By contrast that by excess of NADH is independent of the degree of enzyme functionality. The extent and persistence of flavin semiquinone formation even at high substrate concentrations and long reaction times distinguish this enzyme from the related enzyme, xanthine oxidase.
20494462|A checklist of Irish Collembola, containing 66 species, was published by H. Womersley in 1930 ("Proc. R. Ir. Acad." 39B, 160-202). Since then a large volume of work has been produced on the group in Ireland. The available reference collections and literature on the group have been examined and the list has now been increased to 201 species, 152 of which are supported by voucher specimens in the collections examined. The paper contains the first published Irish records of 18 species and 205 hitherto unreported vice-county records. It also contains a comprehensive bibliography of works on the group in Ireland.
20494330|The Lower Palaeozoic sandstones, siltstones and mudstones of the small Capard inlier, County Laois, at the north-eastern extremity of the Slieve Bloom Mountains are described as the Capard Formation. It is suggested that contour currents may have been important in their deposition. Palynomorphs present include acritarchs, chitinozoa, and abundant trilete spores, the assemblage being indicative of a Wenlock age. In general, the rocks dip steeply north-north-westwards and young in that direction. A variably-developed cleavage generally dips steeply to the south-south-east. The Capard Formation is followed unconformably by Old Red Sandstone rocks folded into a shallow monocline whose axis lies near the north-western boundary of the inlier.
20519017|Investigations into the trace metal content of galena, sphalerite and pyrite from Keel Prospect, County Longford, Ireland, have enabled a definite element partitioning between these sulphides to be established. Detailed studies of trace element distribution in 113 sphalerite samples have also revealed certain specific inter-element relationships which can be attributed to inclusions of gangue and exsolved sulphide phases. This information indicates that the Keel ore-body was formed by low temperature hydrothermal emplacement under conditions similar to those which are associated with genesis of the Mississippi Valley Type deposits of the United States of America.
20494460|Sediment cores obtained from Lough Erne (Northern Ireland) were used to assess the extent, timing and cause of recent nutrient enrichment. The sediment chronology for the three main sites, based on Pb and Cs analysis, indicated that sediment accumulation rates have increased by a factor of 6 to 10 since 1900. Diatom analysis, used to reconstruct the history of enrichment, showed enrichment at all three sites. At the two upper sites the beginning of the enrichment was marked by an increase in the plankton to non-plankton ratio and in the diatom biovolume accumulation rate around the turn of the century; a second, more pronounced enrichment is recorded from about 1950 onwards. At the third site the changes were less striking. It is argued that the first enrichment of the lough resulted from increased quantities of domestic effluent reaching watercourses after piped water and storm drains were introduced to small towns in the catchment. The second change probably reflects various factors, such as post-war expansion of the sewerage network, introduction of synthetic detergents, development of rural septic-tank sanitation, and increased organic waste pollution from farms, creameries and food-processing industries. The data demonstrate the usefulness of the plankton to non-plankton ratio, the diatom accumulation rate, and the changing incidence of Stephanodiscus populations as indicators of nutrient enrichment. It is shown that the decline in non-plankton percentages is an artefact caused by the marked expansion of planktonic populations. Despite a decline from 50% to 10%, the accumulation rate of the total non-plankton population actually increases, suggesting a greater rather than lower production in benthic and littoral habitats during the enrichment process.
20518907|Further radiocarbon dating of the organic deposits above the Woodgrange raised beach confirms that it was deposited before 3,000 years ago. Radiocarbon dates from the deposit below the beach do not allow close dating because of an erosional unconformity and contamination by younger organic material.
20494942|The synthesis of stereoisomeric mono-aryl hydrazones of methylglyoxal is described. The antibacterial activities of some derivatives of these are contrasted.
20519050|A new species of amphipod, Lembos denticarpus sp. nov., is described and figured, from Galway Bay, Ireland Its phylogenetic and ecological relationships are discussed.
20518964|Individual and simultaneous production of amylase and protease by Bacillus polymyxa in an acid catalysed extract of peat containing starch, peptone and calcium chloride was examined in shake-flask cultures and in a 5 1. batch fermenter. The pH of the fermentation medium had a very significant effect on the levels of amylase and protease produced.
20518906|Stratigraphic studies, pollen analysis and radiocarbon dating have been carried out on the basins at three sites from which the late-glacial sequence has already been described (Singh 1970). The zonation of the pollen diagrams from the pre-Boreal to the Boreal-Atlantic transition follows the scheme of Jessen (1949). In the subsequent stages an attempt has been made to apply the scheme of Mitchell (1956) but the zone VIII-IX transition is not necessarily the same in age. Wood of Alnus glutinosa has been found in late-Boreal deposits, establishing the presence of this tree before the general rise of its pollen curve at the beginning of Atlantic times which has been dated to 7,650  400 B.P. (LJ-904). Ruppia pollen has been found for the first time in British post-glacial deposits and is used as an indicator of marine conditions. Early forest clearance, taking the form of a 'landnam' phase is distinguished at two of the sites. A considerable diversity is apparent in the extent of the human influence on the vegetation at the three sites. Widespread deforestation appears to have taken place rather late in the post-glacial and could possibly be connected with the period of rath building. The present day thresholds of the three basins, and one other investigated only in outline, range in altitude from c. + 2m. (c. + 6.5ft) I.O.D. to c. + 8m (c. + 27ft) I.O.D. Only the basin with the lowest threshold (Woodgrange) was transgressed by the sea in the post-glacial period. It is shown that the first entry of salt water into the basin was in mid-Boreal times with massive incursion beginning in the late-Boreal period. Thereafter there was a continuing slight further rise of relative sea-level, the maximum being reached after the Atlantic period and before c. 1,000 B.C. at c. 6.1m (c. 20ft) I.O.D. The conclusion from previous work, that the peninsula of Lecale was probably isolated from the mainland at the maximum of the transgression, cannot be upheld.
20494404|Cyclohexene is reacted with cyanoacetic acid in the presence of manganese III acetate to yield a mixture of stereoisomeric -cyanolactones. The cyanide group is hydrolysed and replaced by methylene. The spectra and stereochemistry of the products are discussed.
20494927|The Salt Marsh, North Bull Island, Dublin, was examined regularly over a two year period to determine the distribution of Pomatoschistus microps. It was shown that with the onset of spring (March), the fish from sites of low salinity (6-8) moved towards higher salinity. By the months of May and June all the fish had reached the sea. In autumn the marsh became populated again. Scale readings showed that all the fish had been born during the previous summer. It is concluded, therefore, that the mature fish having migrated in late spring to the sea did not return to the marsh. Experiments were carried out on P. microps to test salinity tolerance. Fish collected in water of different salinity from the marsh were subjected to increasing and decreasing salinities in the laboratory. The following results were obtained:-- 1. When salinity was gradually increased to 80 no fish died. 2. When salinity was gradually decreased fish taken in water of 6-8 succumbed only in water of very low salinity or in distilled water. Some fish survived in distilled water for a period of two weeks. The majority of the fish caught nearer the sea (16-33) died in distilled water. The remainder succumbed in salinities below 8. 3. An experiment on abrupt changes in salinity showed no ill effects in the fish. 4. Experiments comparing survival rate during a long period at constant high salinity (28) and low salinity (8) did not give a clear-cut pattern.
20518892|A minor synkinematic dome unit of the complex Leinster batholith is described. It was intruded after the first phase of Caledonian deformation in the region and after formation of the swarm of dolerite sheets, and was associated with a second phase of deformation as it cooled down. The structural relations indicate that it rose along the existing cleavage and attained its present assymmetrical form by displacing laterally a belt of country rocks to the south and east: these now continue as a septum which divides it off from the main part of the batholith. Its gently-pitching northern termination resulted from up-doming of the cover.
20494253|The widely separated Ordovician successions at Courtown and Tramore are closely correlated on the basis of faunal and stratigraphic similarity. New and largely unreported lists of shelly faunas are presented for both areas.
20494511|1,3-Dipolar cycloadditions of a series of 1-methyl-5-substituted tetrazoles with benzonitrile N-(4-nitrophenyl) imide gave rise to substituted 1,2,4-triazoles in a cycloaddition-fragmentation sequence. Substituent effects on the reaction showed a relationship with Hammett  values and the mechanism is discussed. In this reaction the 1,5-disubstituted tetrazole system behaved as a synthon for the R-C=N unit in the cycloadduct, suggesting further synthetic scope.
20494277|Mass matings of H. rostochiensis, between larvae which hatched in water, gave a significantly high proportion of sterile matings. Fertile matings gave F with various phenotypic classes which in some instances gave statistical Mendelian ratios. The rate of hatching in water was unexpectedly low, and in all cases where hatching in water occurred, classical ratios were only obtained by pooling together larvae which hatched in water and in host root exudate into a single phenotypic class.
20494249|Previous studies have shown that an extract may be obtained from peat (using dilute acid extraction procedure) which yields biomass levels comparable with known microbiological media. The effect of the dilute acid on the peat was now examined and was found to exert an influence on the hemicellulose fraction. The level of other nutrients was also examined and was compared with nutrients present in microbiological media.
20494895|Between January and July, 1959, a survey of the inshore plankton of the Dalkey area was carried out. Method of collection, sorting and preparation are described and a brief historical account of the work already carried out in Ireland, mainly on pelagic copepods, is included. Thirty-three species of copepod are recorded, and observations on seasonal appearance and the percentage expression in the case of the Calanoida are given for each of the species. In the case of the Harpacticoida, which are regarded as not typical of the plankton, the numbers collected were so small that only the percentage expression of the group is given. Where possible reference is made to the previous records of distribution from Ireland. Eleven species are new records:-- Longipedia rosea is recorded for Great Britain and Ireland; Tegastes falcatus and Zaus goodsiri are recorded for Ireland; Cyclopina longicornis, Longipedia scotti, Asellopsis hispida and Rhynchothalestris helgolandica are recorded for the Irish Sea and Oithona similis is recorded for the east coast of Ireland. Canuella perplexa, Harpacticus flexus and Cleta lamellifera are records for the Dalkey area.
20519034|Investigations are reported on an in vivo assessment of the nitrate assimilation capacity of wheat. It has been possible to relate in vivo assimilation rates to vegetative productivity in terms of both leaf yield and leaf protein yield. Relationships with leaf protein yield appeared to be particularly close at both the post-germination (seven days) and post-tillering (seventeen days) stages. In vivo activity was also clearly relatable to in vitro activity for the same material. This has been satisfactory in that some modification of the relatively new in vivo assay had proved necessary, after it had previously been used with field-grown material. The value of a good in vivo assessment method in its approximation of physiological conditions, in its corroboration of in vitro results, and in its relation to productivity is discussed.
20494264|The stratigraphy and sedimentology of 75 square miles of rocks of varying metamorphic grade in eastern Murrisk are described. Conjugate fold systems suggest a thrust contact between the Upper and Lower divisions of the Dalradian rocks. The younger (Arenigian) turbidite sequences include boulder conglomerates derived from the north, axial turbidites from the east and, at a later stage, lateral turbidites of southerly origin. The latter are partly contemporaneous with spilites and aquagene tuffs. The overlying Llanvirnian (?) Glenummera Series occupies an intermediate position between the Arenigian turbidites and shallow water current-bedded sediments of the Partry Series, and sandstones within the slate sequence reflect the changing environment of deposition. The Partry Series, of Llanvirnian age, consists of conglomerates and sandstones with welded tuffs and marks the emergence of the Connemara Cordillera. It represents mountain front deposits in shallow water and later proluvial conditions. An internal unconformity occurs within the Partry Series, and folding and erosion occurred during the hiatus. The weakly metamorphosed Wenlockian sediments of the Croagh Patrick syncline indicate east to west currents throughout a period of largely shallow water deposition. Pre-Carboniferous erosion produced a peneplain on which Visan conglomerates, sandstones and limestones accumulated. These deposits were subsequently broken by faulting to produce a series of narrow strips of Visan sediments resting upon and obscuring the older deposits. Intrusions include serpentine, often steatitized, along the Highland Boundary Fault, and a cumulative layered picro-dolerite within the Partry Series on Tonnasaile.
20494540|Protalus ramparts and fossil rock glaciers occur on Errigal Mountain, Co. Donegal. The ramparts are linear or gently-arcuate debris ridges with a single crest and shallow backing depression. They occupy zones of marked gradient reduction below talus slopes and rockwalls, and possess distal slope gradients in excess of proximal slope gradients. Their presence implies the former existence of perennial snowbeds. The fossil rock glaciers also occur below talus slopes but extend a greater distance downslope from the talus foot than the ramparts and have crenulate or lobate plan forms; interior ridges and depressions are interpreted as flow structures, and downslope movement was probably due to the internal plastic deformation of contained ice. Sedimentological characteristics lend some support to the inferred modes of debris accumulation. The landforms are considered to be of predominantly Nahanagan Stadial age (c. 11-10ka B.P.) although the debris in the fossil rock glaciers probably began to accumulate in an earlier phase of the Lateglacial period. A mean annual air temperature no higher than 1C at sea level during the Nahanagan Stadial is implied.
20518870|A study of a population of fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus was carried out in deciduous woodland during 1963-64, using trap, mark, recapture methods. The results of this differ little from those derived from comparable work in Great Britain where the fieldmouse is co-dominant with the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus. The apparent minimum weight at which the animals become fecund, however, is somewhat higher than that in England. The mice appeared to avoid, to some extent, dense superficial cover such as ivy.
20519029|Sorption affinities, isosteric heats and entropies of CO and NH sorbed in Linde Molecular Sieve type Y ion-exchanged with Li, K, Ag, Ca, Sr, Ba, Mn and Co ions and in a decationated Y zeolite are interpreted. CO sorption in LiY, NaY and KY was energetically homogeneous and also there was little variation in the heats for CO in HNaY, AgY, MnY and CoY; CO sorption in the alkaline earth zeolites was energetically heterogeneous. All the sorbents except LiY, NaY, KY and MnY were strongly heterogeneous to NH. The thermodynamic data are analysed in detail in terms of the location and number of available cations per unit cell. It is concluded that the Ag, Mn and Co ions are inaccessible to CO and that Ba ions are more accessible than either Sr or Ca; on sorption of ammonia Ag, Co and Mn ions migrate out into the large -cages and form complexes.
20494544|Results of phytosociological studies on the aquatic and wetland communities of the Lower Corrib, County Galway, are presented. Sampling and analysis were carried out according to the Zrich-Montpellier method. Twenty-eight main vegetation units are distinguished, representing aquatic, reedswamp, fen and transitional fen/raised bog vegetation. These include Cladietum marisci, Caricetum elatae, Phragmites australis/Carex lasiocarpa and Schoenetum nigricantis communities. Large-scale vegetation maps of the southern end of Lough Corrib and the Corrib River are provided. The ecology of the various communities is described, their floristic relationships to previously described comparable vegetation types in Ireland and Britain are considered, and the effects of drainage and past management on floristic composition and distribution are discussed.
20519021|A study of a population of fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus was undertaken using trap, mark-recapture methods in mixed woodland from November 1973 to October 1974. The population density of fieldmice was low. This may have been due to a large stand of conifers in the area which probably provided relatively little food. The mice showed changes in their relative abundance in different levels of cover which cannot readily be explained. Apart from this the results are comparable with those from similar studies in Britain. The causes of deaths in the traps are discussed.
20518986|The gneiss complex of Inishtrahull forms a southerly extension of the Precambrian Lewisian complex of Scotland. It is lithologically layered parallel to the foliation and shows evidence for at least eight phases of deformation which have been identified on the basis of folded folds and folded linear and planar fabric elements. The geometry of the folds, the mechanism(s) of deformation and the time relationships between the phases have been established using both field relations and structural analysis. Small igneous bodies ranging from acidic to ultramafic were emplaced at various times throughout the deformational sequence but had little influence on the structural pattern in the gneisses or its development. The gneissose foliation formed during the D deformational phase is composite. Together with intrafolial folds it was formed at almandine-amphibolite facies and has retained its identity despite extensive tectonic overprinting. The broad distribution of lithology and the foliation attitude are both governed by a complex upright asymmetrical D fold. This has a NE axial trend and shows considerable variation in the style of its parasitic structures. Phases D were superimposed on the complex surfaces of this structure and resulted in minor modification of it with upright open folds and warps, sometimes accompanied by cleavages. Phase D is related to movements in the Caledonian episode which resulted in the superimposition of shear zones on the gneiss complex. The time relationships of events and the correlation with the Lewisian complex have been confirmed by isotopic results published elsewhere (Macintyre et al. 1975).
20494953|On the low-lying north shore of Tralee Bay between Spa and Fenit there are extensive deposits of head or solifluction-earth (with ice-wedge-casts and involutions) which are divided by a glacial horizon of till and outwash gravel into an upper and a lower head. Under the lower head there are peats and silts whose contents of pollen--both contemporary and derived--suggest that these deposits formed as the Gortian Warm "Stage" was giving way to the succeeding cold stage to which the ice-wedge-casts and the glacial deposits belong. The peats and silts rest on a raised beach which was not seen to reach a greater height than about 5 m over mean sea level. The raised beach rested on a shore-platform, which was traced from about 3.5 m over mean sea level down to below the level of low water at spring tides. Glacial deposits at an altitude of 150 m on the south shore of Tralee Bay may be older than those on the north shore.
20494336|Xanthine oxidase and the related enzymes, xanthine dehydrogenase and aldehyde oxidase, exhibit wide specificity towards oxidizing substrates. In our view all of the redox active prosthetic groups are available for interaction with such substrates. Thus, dichlorophenol indophenol, trinitrobenzene sulphonate and possibly phenazine methosulphate react with the molybdenum centres; oxygen and NAD react with the flavin chromophores; and Methylene Blue, ferricyanide and possibly phenazine methosulphate interact with the iron/sulphur groups. Cytochrome c and nitroblue tetrazolium may be reduced by the superoxide radical produced during turnover or by direct interaction with the flavin or iron/sulphur centres depending on the enzyme and the experimental conditions used.
20494402|Reaction of urea with acetylacetone affords, in addition to 4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2(1H)-one, four products in which one molecule of acetylacetone has combined with more than one molecule of urea. The structures of these products are discussed and confirmed using proton and carbon-13 n.m.r. spectroscopy.
20494943|The synthesis and anticancer activity of "mixed" hydrazone derivatives of methylglyoxal are described.
20494353|Twenty five Laminaria digitata were collected during early spring at three slightly contrasted sites in a tidal rapids system at the Dorn in Strangford Lough. Fronds of individual plants were cut into 15cm segments starting from the distal end and the fauna present on each segment face recorded. The dominant sedentary fauna associated with these fronds consisted of three encrusting filter feeding species:-- two bryozoans, Electra pilosa (L.) and Membranipora membranacea (L.) and the serpulid Spirorbis inornatus l'Hardy and Quivreux. The frond community was one of limited diversity. The epifauna of L. digitata at the three study sites revealed only slight differences: these were probably attributable to local variations in water movement. Some evidence of zonation in each species' distribution along the plants was obtained. It is suggested that these kelp fronds are less than one year old despite their large size. They provide a spatial refuge in which certain taxa can thrive in the absence of severe competition.
20494436|This paper on the Mastigomycotina and Zygomycotina is the fifth of the series contributing to an annotated account of fungi recorded in Ireland between 1726 and 1975. When this series of papers has been completed it will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi since that of Adams and Pethybridge.
20518939|A gravity survey in Co. Donegal has provided further examples of the frequently observed association of negative gravity anomalies with granite intrusions. The gravity features over three such intrusions, the Main Donegal granite, the Rosses ring complex and the Ardara granite are analysed and discussed in relation to their deep structure and mode of origin. The thicknesses of the granites calculated on the basis of their gravity effects are less than had been anticipated from knowledge of granites similar in age and tectonic setting elsewhere, and in the case of the Main granite would be consistent with a derivation from underlying Lewisian strata.
20494383|A number of freshwater sites on Rathlin Island, Co. Antrim, were visited in 1978 and 1979 and investigated for water chemistry, macroinvertebrates and alg. Lough sites were found to be alkaline and had high water-conductivity values. Pool sites were acidic and had relatively lower water-conductivity values. The cation water chemistry of all the sites is shown to be strongly influenced by sea spray. Alg at the sites indicated that the loughs were eutrophic and the pool sites oligotrophic. The influence of varying water quality on the distribution of macroinvertebrates and alg, particularly diatoms, is discussed.
20518936|Occurrences of Elonichthys serratus Traquair 1881 are recorded from the Upper Visan of County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland, and brief comments are made concerning palaeoecology. The historical background to the Enniskillen and Egerton collections in the British Museum (Natural History) is given.
20494371|A number of 5-arylazopyrimidines was prepared and the activity against the HeLa cell in culture was measured. Twelve of the compounds were active in vitro. None showed activity in vivo against the P.388 and Ehrlich tumours in mice.
20518859|Methylglyoxal derivatives of type I, containing two different thiosemicarbazide residues, and some related compounds which we have shown to have high anti-tumour activity in mice, are now shown to exert antimycobacterial activity in vitro and in the mouse. The activity is more marked in vivo against isoniazid resistant variants of Myco. tuberculosis. A new method of synthesis of these compounds from isonitrosoacetone is described.
20494844|The petrology, structure and intrusive history of the Porphyritic Felsite are described. The mineralogy reflects a high-temperature origin for the rocks; the field evidence indicates emplacement in a cool and viscous condition. The apparent contradiction is explained as the result of a sudden cooling of the acid magma, when about one-third crystalline, through the loss of a large proportion of the volatile constituents. The escape of volatiles is thought to have been facilitated by the relative weakness of the south-western part of the ring fracture surroundings, where the ring fault coincided with the earlier contact between Caledonian Granodiorite and Lower Palaeozoic sediments. During the later states of emplacement the magma made use of the points of weakness provided by the Forkill vents. The later movements were accompanied by flow brecciation in the margins of the intrusion, involving fragmentation of phenocrysts and occasionally of larger masses of felsite. The contact relations between the Porphyritic Granophyre and earlier Porphyritic Felsite suggest that the granophyre ring intrusion followed soon after the felsite, before the latter had completely cooled and consolidated. Dextral transcurrent faults, striking approximately N.N.W.-S.S.E., displace all members of the Ring Complex.
20494883|Habitats are described and the species of aquatic and semi-aquatic Heteroptera recorded from them are discussed. Emphasis is placed on their known ecological preferences and the use of corixids as lake-type indicators. Appendices are included listing other insects collected from the Burren and Inishmore Island.
20494468|The relative commonness and rarity of carabids and the associations between species and the habitats they occupy were quantitatively assessed using a standard pitfall trapping technique in a selection of nature reserves.
20519052|Available Irish material of Empididae, mainly small- to medium-sized predatory flies, was found to include 161 species compared with a British total of 366. Fifty species are here recorded as Irish for the first time. The composition of the Irish fauna is discussed in relation to that of Britain.
20518914|Halogenated 2-(2-quinolyl)chromones were synthesised in an attempt to correlate the previously reported anticancer activity of 6-chloro-2-(2-quinolyl)chromone with the heterocyclic substituent. Acrylophenones with heterocyclic 3-substituents were also prepared. 2-Methyl-3-(2- or 4- pyridyl) acrylophenones underwent abnormal Michael-type additions to the -position of the double bond.
20494434|Tree-ring chronologies of subfossil Scots pine timbers from raised bogs in the Irish midlands are presented. These allow aspects of the palaeowoodland structure and dynamics to be reconstructed. Radiocarbon dating of the timbers provides an absolute timescale for the events described. Synchronous growth of pine occurred at a number of locations between 3750 and 3500 radiocarbon years b.p. At Glashabaun, Co. Offaly, there is evidence of a 500-year pine phase from 4000 to 3500 b.p. Density was approximately 500 trees/ha. Basal area was low and annual radial increments were 40-50% less than in contemporary Scots pines.
20494469|C. thermocellum strain JW20 when grown on cellulose produced an enzyme complex that catalysed the hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose and soluble derivatives thereof. The appearance of enzyme activity was preceded by the secretion of a yellow affinity substance (YAS) that coated the cellulose. The cellulolytic activity formed during the first days of the fermentation of cellulose was almost completely bound to the YAS-cellulose. As the fermentation proceeded much of the cellulolytic activity appeared as soluble enzyme in the culture fluid. Hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose was effected only by the enzyme complexes that were formed during the first stages of fermentation. The endoglucanase present in the culture medium is postulated to have been formed from these enzyme complexes during the fermentation process. YAS and crystalline cellulolytic activity were formed in substantial amounts only when the bacterium was grown on cellulose. With cellobiose as carbon source, and to a lesser extent with glucose, endoglucanase activity only was produced.
20494397|Detailed pollen analysis and radiocarbon dating have been carried out on the mire deposit in the nature reserve at Meenadoan Townland in County Tyrone. The analysis commenced with the first pollen-bearing deposits dating from c. 12500 b.p. (radiocarbon years) which show an open grass-dominated vegetation. This is followed by a herb-dominated phase coincident with inorganic deposition in the lake, marking the cold period of the Nahanagan Stadial. The end of the Late-glacial is marked by a particularly clear succession from a grass-Rumex phase, through a brief Empetrum phase to a phase dominated by Juniperus with some Filipendula. This leads gradually into the usual early Post-glacial Betula maximum. The detail in which these changes can be seen may be due to a delay in the expansion of birch at the altitude of this site. The Post-glacial changes now follow the well-established pattern with minor differences reflecting the altitude and westerly situation of the site. The effects of man are first seen at c. 4780 b.p. and become progressively more important from that time on. The present bog surface is still active and is now one of the very few undisturbed raised bogs anywhere in Ireland.
20494338|The stratigraphy and structure of Ordovician and Silurian rocks and the Knocknaveen Group in northern Murrisk, Co. Mayo, are described and a new map presented. Up to 12.9 km of Ordovician and Silurian rocks have undergone superposed deformations; there is a structural zonation related to the northern margin of the structural block. The earliest deformational episode (DI) is seen only in the Ordovician rocks and produced a cleavage and tight, steep-lunging folds. The main episode (D2) resulted in a penetrative cleavage which is related to slides and the largest scale folds in both Silurian and Ordovician rocks. The Knocknaveen Group to the north of the Emlagh Fault comprises a distinct structural unit. This Group should be regarded as being of uppermost Silurian to Devonian age on lithological and structural grounds.
20494527|In admixture with hydrogen n-pentane underwent dehydrocyclisation at temperatures above about 500K on a range of transition metal catalysts prepared as evaporated films; n-hexane underwent cyclisation to benzene/cyclohexane at similar temperatures on early-group metals as well as on the now comparatively well-documented Group VIII metals. The parallel formation of methylcyclopentane in the n-hexane reaction is restricted to Pt and Pd but also N1 (or bimetallic NiCu) and Rh (or RhSn) under conditions when a lesser degree of surface carbiding prevails. This overall pattern may be interpreted by (i) a selective cyclic mechanism (SCM) which takes place on the platinum metals Pt, Pd, Rh and Ir and (ii) a non-selective cyclic mechanism (NSCM) which takes place on all the active metals at relevant temperatures yielding 1,5- and some 1,6-cyclisation on Pt and Pd but only 1,6-cyclisation on the normally strongly carbided early-group metals. Results available for VIII-IB alloy catalysts favour a single-metal-atom mechanism for the NSCM.
20494522|The solubility product of silver bromide has been measured in methanol and in mixtures of methanol with dimethylsulphoxide The free energy of transfer of AgBr from methanol to the mixed solvent systems was calculated from these values It is found that the free energy of transfer of AgBr decreases monotonically These data are compared with other similar data for mixtures of dimethylsulphoxide of acetonitrile with either methanol or water. It is proposed that the observed differences between the free energies of transfer of the silver halides in the acetonitrile-protic and dimethylsulphoxide-protic solvent systems result from the differences in the strengths of the interactions between acetonitrile or dimethylsulphoxide with the protic components.
20494315|1,4-Dioxaspiro [4.5] deca-2,8-dione-6,9-dienes, a new class of potentially fungicidal compounds have been prepared. These compounds undergo a spontaneous hydrolysis reaction in neutral solution to give benzoquinones and 2-hydroxy-carboxylic acids. Kinetic studies combined with an examination of kinetic solvent isotope effects allow the assignment of a mechanism of hydrolysis involving a general base catalysis requiring the constriction of movement of several molecules of water in the transition state.
20494865|Thirteen cancerous pike were examined, and the location and macroscopic appearance of the tumours is described. From examination of histological sections of them, it was found that the tumours were in all cases lymphosarcomas. A marked lymphocytosis associated with the neoplastic condition was found in one of the pike. Attempts to isolate virus from the tumours of two pike failed.
20494435|Pollen and macrofossil analysis of a peat monolith reveal an autogenic successional sequence at a site in the Irish midlands. Seral development proceeded from an Eriophorum-dominated community through dwarf shrub and birch scrub to an open woodland containing pine and birch. The impetus for the observed successional changes was a progressive decrease in the level of the bog water-table resulting from peat accumulation. The palaeowoodland most resembles Scandinavian and western Scottish pinewoods, having a major deciduous component. Calluna vulgaris formed a dense shrub layer, and Polytrichum juniperinum was common in the moss layer of the woodland. A rise in bog water levels, attributed to climatic change, caused the woodland to be replaced by a Sphagnum community. The peat of the monolith was deposited during lower and middle Zone VIII, the sub Boreal period. The succession from the Eriophorum community to the establishment of the bog woodland occurred over an interval of at most 1250 years.
20518958|The literature on the geology of Slieve Gullion includes two detailed accounts which diverge in their overall interpretation: these accounts are summarised. The rock types are dolerite and granophyre, the dolerite occurring as four gently dipping sheets. It is pointed out that net-veining of the dolerite by granophyre provides evidence which has to be taken into account in the interpretation of the larger-scale relationships. Two types of net-veining are recognised, which may be termed rectilinear and curvilinear net-veining respectively. The former type is veining as ordinarily understood, having formed after consolidation of the host dolerite. The curvilinear net-veining is interpreted as being matrix to closely spaced pillows of dolerite which formed when acid magma came into contact with the basic magma of the dolerite sheets. Chilled edges of dolerite against granophyre may be compared with chilled edges of lava pillows. The four dolerites are all considered intrusive. Their intrusion probably remobilised the host granophyre anatectically to produce the matrix and vein granophyre.
20494363|Gravel and temperate Quaternary plant fossils in a karstic cavity in Permian gypsum in east central Ireland are described. More than fifty plant taxa are listed; Nymphoides aquaticum is recorded for the second time in Ireland; Dulichium spathaceum is recorded for the first time.
20494367|This highly metamorphosed syntectonic intrusion has five principal components given in order of age. (1) Peridotite lumps for a disrupted early layer (with rare harrisite and orbicular structures) enclosed in basic bytownite to anorthite bearing metagabbro, collectively called the Errisbeg Group. (2) More differentiated metagabbros (the South-East Gabbros) which enclose Errisbeg Group rocks as xenoliths and grade eastwards into (3) the still more differentiated Epidiorite Group of amphibolites which also inject and stope off Errisbeg Group rocks. The Epidiorite Group is itself soaked and injected by a filter-pressed or immiscible differentiate which crystallised as a separate slightly later phase (4) the Quartz diorite Gneiss. This grades into the final phase (5) Granitic Gneiss. The margins of the intrusion do not occur within the area, the western rocks being the Ballyconneely Amphibolites, equivalent in chemical composition to a mixture of Epidiorite Group and Quartz diorite Gneiss and correlated with them in age. The structure and igneous history have been unravelled by detailed mapping, geochemical traverses involving 131 rocks analysed for major and trace elements, and 153 microprobe analyses of minerals, including olivine (
20494359|The history of the division of Ireland into biological vice-counties, originally used to record the distribution of higher plants and later adopted by workers on other groups of organisms, is summarised. A number of ambiguities and errors are discussed, and attention is drawn to the changes in administrative county-boundaries in 1898-1900; the effect of these on the biological scheme has never received proper attention. The principle adopted by the Praeger Committee of the Royal Irish Academy in 1969, that the biological vice-counties should be defined in accordance with the frontispiece map of Praeger's "Irish Topographical Botany" (1901), is here reaffirmed (subject to the correction of three very small errors in the printing of the map). The vice-counties are listed and defined more precisely than has hitherto been done and sketch-maps are given to illustrate those divergences from the administrative boundaries of today which cannot be easily expressed in words.
20494423|Research into the history of oyster transplantations among Irish beds revealed a great deal of mixing of native stocks. Throughout the last one hundred years native beds, both private and public, have been restocked with huge amounts of oysters transplanted from Irish and foreign populations, so that a truly native oyster no longer exists. Because it is claimed that local stocks of oysters in Ireland are distinguishable from one another, starch gel electrophoresis was used to test for genetic differences between these stocks. The resulting allozymic patterns indicate that some differences do exist, but they are small compared with the variations previously reported to exist between Irish and Norwegian populations, and are hardly large enough to warrant the claim that the populations represent real genetic strains or races. This has some relevance to present restocking policies. Genetic variability in Ostrea edulis is considerably lower than in other shellfish species.
20519025|An account is given of the discovery of Tanymastix stagnalis (Linn.) (Crustacea; Branchiopoda; Anostraca) in Rahasane Turlough, Co. Galway: the first record of the species in the British Isles and the first freshwater member of the Anostraca to be recorded in Ireland. Various field observations on the distribution, population structure, life history and ecology of the species are recorded and discussed. The suggestion is made that the species has been introduced to Ireland as eggs--carried in mud by a migratory bird or a visiting wildfowler.
20494442|Areas of level, stable, coastal dune grassland over calcareous soils, called machair, have been extensively described from west and north-west Scotland. There, machair is found in areas having a moist, cool, oceanic but windy climate. Under similar conditions in western Ireland dune grassland is also found but the term machair has not been generally used. This paper assesses the characteristics of dune grassland sites and their similarities to Scottish machair. Twenty-six sites in western Ireland were visited in 1983 and data were collected on soils, site morphology, vegetation and human use. Meteorological data were collated from official statistics. Machair is found in Ireland from Galway Bay to Malin Head and closely resembles Scottish machair. Some slight differences between Irish and Scottish systems are apparent in the soils, climate and vegetation, the main difference being the human use of machair. In Ireland it is universally grazed and used for amenity purposes by the local inhabitants.
20494521|The gas phase photo-oxidation of 1,1,1-trichloroethane has been investigated at 298K using light of wavelength 254nm. CHCCl radicals formed on photolysis react with oxygen to give acetyl chloride The rate of addition of CHCCl radicals to oxygen was determined relative to the reaction with bromine. The mechanism and the importance of CHCCl photo-oxidation in the stratosphere are discussed.
20519002|4-Alkyl-1-cyanoacetylthiosemicarbazides are cyclised by hydrazine hydrate to 4-alkyl-5-cyanomethyl-1,2,4-triazoline-3-thiones, which at higher temperatures are converted into 4-amino-3,5-di(4-alkyl-3-thioxo-1,2,4-triazolin-5-ylmethyl)triazole derivatives; 4-amino-3,5-di(carbazoylmethyl)-1,2,4-triazole and 4-alkylthiosemicarbazides are also obtained in side-reactions.
20494923|Stream sediment samples taken at a sampling density of one sample per sq mile in a 650 sq mile area of east central Ireland were analysed for seventeen elements. Results for potassium, vanadium, cobalt, copper, zinc, selenium, molybdenum, and lead are presented on single-element geochemical maps. Analytical data for all elements studied are presented in tabular form An extensive molybdeniferous area and a less extensive seleniferous area were indicated by stream sediment analyses. Areas with different levels of potassium were clearly delineated. The relationship between stream sediment element levels and soil levels was investigated in seven selected areas. The areas were selected on the basis of stream sediment analyses to give a wide range of levels for the different elements. Analyses of ten representative soil samples taken from ten fields in each area were correlated with stream sediment analyses. A good correlation was obtained for potassium, cobalt, zinc, gallium, molybdenum, and lead. Stream sediment analyses were found unsatisfactory for predicting soil levels of some elements, notably selenium. Rock analyses showed that high potassium levels (&gt;1.5% KO) were attributable to the Silurian shales and that high selenium (&gt;5ppm Se) and high molybdenum (&gt;5ppm Mo) arose from black shale strata occurring in the Namurian sediments.
20518894|A thick sequence of metasediments with minor igneous intrusions of Middle and Upper Dalradian age is exposed on the east bank of Lough Swilly, Inishowen, Co. Donegal. A structural investigation of the area reveals three phases of folding, F1 and F2 about north-east/south-west axes, and F3 about a north-west/south-east axis. Observation of bedding-cleavage relationships and facing direction in the cleavages suggests that the area represents part of a large F2 antiform overturned to the north-west which occupies a low structural level in the Italy Nappe Complex. Later, more brittle phases of deformation gave rise to a complex system of kink bands, faults and joints.
20494547|The biology of the butterfish, Pholis gunnellus (Linnaeus, 1758), was examined in the Galway Bay area. Fish were collected from three shores between January 1982 and December 1983. Fish attained six years of age but were predominantly made up of 0-3 group individuals. Growth in males and females was rapid during the first three years of life. The recorded fish ranged from a 4.1cm (SL) female to a 17.5cm (SL) male. Maximum gonad weights were recorded during the months October to January. The butterfish is mainly carnivorous, amphipods and isopods being the principal food items. The annual feeding cycle showed some high values for feeding intensities during February to May and low values from June/July to December/January. Nine species of helminth parasite were recorded from the butterfish.
20494907|The stratigraphy of the north-west part of the Connemara Schists is outlined and by means of a pebble bed correlation is possible between the mainland, Renvyle, and the islands of Inishbofin and Inishshark. The lowest part of the succession exposed is a quartzite, correlated with the Bens Quartzite and thus with the Central Highland Quartzite of Scotland. The highest part of the succession is a thick series of grits and siliceous granulites which are probably near to the top of the Connemara Schists. The main structure is an F downward facing anticline. At least three metamorphisms and five periods of deformation are recognised. The first metamorphism occurred during F and varied from staurolite grade on Renvyle to garnet grade on the islands. During F severe retrogression occurred with the development of chlorite and muscovite in the north, but to the south the grade was higher. A post-F static development of andalusite and chloritoid (never together) is patchy, being known in only four localities. Sillimanite of uncertain age occurs at one locality on Renvyle. During both the principal metamorphisms there was a decline in grade to the north, which suggests they were associated in time. An important slide which crosses the area cuts out part of the succession and has probably telescoped the decline in metamorphic grade. Associated with this slide on Inishbofin is a series of metamorphosed, serpentinised, and talcosed gabbroic bodies whose alteration has caused serpentinisation and steatitisation of the surrounding country rocks. A most unusual intrusion, the Crump Island metamorphosed basic body is described. This varies from an olivine (Fo)-clinopyroxene-orthopyroxene (En)-labradorite (An)-biotite-hornblende assemblage through two pyroxene-labradorite (An) biotite and orthoclase to hornblende-biotite-acid plagioclase (An)-orthoclase. Veins of potash feldspar rich pegmatite cross the body. It is believed that the orthoclase is derived by fractional melting of the country rocks, a process known to occur in south Connemara. Ten semipelites and their contained garnets have been chemically analysed together with seven other rock analyses.
20519024|reshwater leeches were collected in numerous samples in 50 10km grid-squares (Irish National Grid) centred on Belfast and Galway including Connemara and the mid-River Shannon region. Trocheta subviridis Dutrochet is reported for Ireland for the first time; the various positions of its gonopores differ from records of British specimens. Erpobdella octoculata (L.) occurs frequently but less often than Haemopis sanguisuga (L.)--a reversal of the records for Britain and Denmark. Dina lineata (Mller) is the most common erpobdellid in the Galway region; here E. octoculata is seldom common. T. subviridis is frequent from Galway to the Shannon; T. bykowskii Gedroy is more widespread. Both species of Trocheta are considered to be indigenous to Ireland. E. testacea Savigny is rare. A general similarity exists between the Galway region and Scotland and between the Belfast region and England for the relative frequencies of erpobdellids, but the distribution found for T. subviridis is in marked contrast.
20518909|At Arklow Head, Caradocian rhyolitic pyroclastics intruded by a thick sheet of pyroxene diorite are faulted into a succession of Ribband Group sediments of Arenig age. The pyroclastics were deposited on the flanks of a rhyolite vent which built up a cinder cone resting on black mudstone, overlaid with more extensive vitric and crystal tuffs. There is evidence that the slope of the cone decreased with the build up of material and that for much of its active life the vent was subaerial, though at an early stage the fringes of the volcano at least were still below water. The centre of eruption changed its position only slightly throughout the volcano's history and the eruptive phase seems to have terminated with considerable hydrothermal activity. The diorite, though intruding the lithified tuffs, belongs to the same period of igneous activity. A comparison of chemical analyses with those from Caradocian igneous rocks in Co. Waterford indicates that the volcanicity changes its character from calc-alkaline to alkaline and the basic activity is prolonged in time as one passes eastward across the volcanic belt towards Arklow.
20518954|A new bicyclisation process has been discovered: [unrepresentable symbol] and its scope explored for some combinations of R, R = H,Me; X = CH,S, CHMe; Y = O,S,NR; Z = SMe, NRR. Some 1,6- and 1,4-systems were also examined (X = CHCH, SS, --). 1,5-Bisthiosemicarbazones react with DNPS in 3 ways affording either (a) the glyoxal derivative by oxidation, (b) the 1,5-derivative by exchange, or (c) soluble products arising from the acid only. The last, after isolation and spectral characterisation, proved to be bicyclic salts (above, Y = S, Z = NHR) and arise via the thiadiazoline ring tautomers of TSCN's. They can also be formed directly from 1,5-dicarbonyl compounds as indicated, and this allows preparation of triazoline rings (Y = NR, Z = SMe). The double bond is exocyclic to the 5-membered ring (the salts are immonium rather than -unsaturated ammonium) and shows no tendency to migrate into it; isomeric triazolium salts from mesoionic compounds differ spectrally. 2,4-DimethylTSC yields monocyclic salts with 1,5-dialdehydes. Some exceptions were observed: (i) When Y is other than S, 1,5-oxoketones yield (5-thia)cyclohex-2-enone derivatives by preferential aldol condensation. (ii) 3-Thiaglutaraldehyde and TSC's give highly coloured solutions of unknown composition. (iii) The ester (Y = S, Z = SMe) leads to enamine dimers. (iv) Succinaldehyde, unlike 1,4-diketones, yields no bicyclic salt. The properties of the salts are described. Nitrogen derivatives of glutaraldehyde are reviewed, also their cyclisation to pyridines, and attention drawn to an elimination step in this Knoevenagel modification of the Hantzsch synthesis. Conversely, we have modified the sodium-alcohol reduction of alkylpyridines to give good yields of 1,5-bisTSCN's directly.
20518887|The nature and distribution of periglacial structures and deposits is described. All known structures and deposits post-date the last glaciation of the area which occurred during the Late Weichselian stage. There is widespread evidence that the region experienced a period of tundra conditions with extensive permafrost and ice-wedge structures, even though many of the minor periglacial forms do not necessarily indicate permafrost conditions. The dating of the episodes of periglacial activity is not certain. Study of the deposits associated with the deglaciation of the area suggests that permafrost and severe periglacial conditions existed from the retreat of the ice at each locality until the late part of Pollen Zone I times, and, that weak periglacial conditions probably occurred during Pollen Zone III times.
20494554|The growth, development and food utilisation of Phratora vulgatissima (L.) reared in the laboratory on leaves of Salix viminalis and Salix matsudana were studied. Leaves of Salix burjatica were not accepted as food. The duration of the larval stage was 13-16 days and the pupal stage lasted 6-7 days. The food consumption rate ranged from 0.93mg to 1.63mg per mg larval biomass per day on a fresh mass basis. Total food consumption during instar II was 10.3mg and 9.2mg, and 25.1mg and 27.5mg during instar III, on S. viminalis and S. matsudana respectively. Mean relative growth rates (GR) were 0.21mg mg d for instar II larvae and 0.23mg mg d for instar III larvae. Mean efficiency of conversion of ingested food (ECI) was 14.2% and 23% for instar II and III larvae respectively. GR and ECI declined markedly in late instar III larvae, but less so in larvae fed on S. matsudana than in larvae fed on S. viminalis. Leaf tissue consumption by adults ranged from 0.61mg to 1.21mg and from 0.25mg to 1.65mg dry mass ind d on S. viminalis and S. matsudana respectively. Leaf tissue consumption in the field was estimated at 14-20% of canopy leaf biomass during 1982, and 2.3-3% during 1983. Leaf area loss in 1983 was estimated to be 3-4%.
20494545|The total sodium, potassium and water contents were determined in both control and denervated rat E.D.L. muscles. There was no significant difference between the electrolyte content of the two groups but the extracellular space and the total water content were significantly higher in the denervated muscles. The fibre membrane depolarised by 12mV after denervation, and measurement of the intracellular activities of Na and K showed that the depolarisation was accompanied by a small but significant decrease in intracellular Na but by no change in intracellular K. The effect of ouabain on membrane potential and Na entry was similar in both control and denervated muscles. It is concluded that denervation for two days produced a redistribution of muscle water, probably owing to loss of vasomotor tone. At the cellular level it caused membrane depolarisation, and the results suggest that this was associated with an apparent decrease in K permeability, with no change in Na permeability.
20494503|The radical-anions from 1,6- and 1,7-dichloronaphthalenes were generated electro-chemically in dimethylformamide. Carbon-chlorine bond cleavage and subsequent hydrogen abstraction yield 1- and 2-chloronaphthalene in the ratio 078: 1 and 124: 1 respectively. These results are compared with the expected value of 038 from the free electron density distribution in naphthalene radical-anion and of 63 from the known rates of carbon-chlorine bond cleavage in the radical-anions of 1- and 2-chloronaphthalene.
20519016|Using the Langmuir and Volmer equations the adsorption of carbon dioxide in NaA, LiA-49, SrA, CoA and NiA-69 is shown to be localised at lower temperatures (303 K) with the sorbate assuming mobility at higher temperatures. Localisation sets in again at coverages greater than   0.55 due to mutual caging of the sorbate molecules. NH sorption in the several exchanged forms is best described as localised with sorbate-sorbate interactions. Zeolitic CO and NH equilibria may be predicted over wide ranges of temperature and pressure using the Dubinin-Polanyi theory provided a fixed molar volume is taken.
20494524|A series of complexes of vanadium (IV) and (V) of benzohydroxamic acid (BHA) of formulae VO(BHA), V(OR)(BHA) (R = H, CH, CH, 1-CH) and VO(BHA) D (D = donor ligand) are described together with their electronic, infrared and electron spin resonance spectra.
20494332|This study entailed a comparison of two fieldmouse Apodemus sylvaticus populations in the karst country of the Burren, Co. Clare, using mark-recapture methods, from November 1976 to June 1977. The two populations inhabited respectively, a section of mature hazel Corylus avellana wood, and an adjacent area of open limestone pavement and grassland. Population densities in both areas pointed to the suitability of the Burren habitat for fieldmice; the density in the wood was considerably higher than in the open and surpassed that in all comparable estimates from previous Irish studies. In addition, mean body weights of mice in the wood were significantly higher than corresponding values for mice in the open throughout the study. An explanation of these disparities probably lies in the predominance of hazel in the wood, conditions apparently providing a particularly favourable habitat in terms of food and cover. There was evidence that the onset of breeding in the wood was more rapid, in males at least; survival there in spring and early summer was poorer than in the open.
20494903|A REMARKABLE resemblance between the Dalradian stratigraphy of Connemara and Perthshire, Scotland, is noted, particularly by the presence of extensive Boulder Bed. The succession established permits a detailed study of three distinct phases of deformation, which are compared with those found by other workers in Connemara. The discovery of two separate episodes of basic intrusion, which can be clearly related to the deformation phases has encouraged a tentative correlation with the Central Highlands.
20494492|Preliminary analysis of the flavonoid constituents of the fresh fruits of Phellodendron chinese (Rutaceae) has led to the isolation and identification of two prenylated components: the novel 3,5,7,4-tetrahydroxy-6-(2-hydroxy-3-methyl-3-butenyl) flavanone (1a) together with the structurally related 3,5,7,4-tetrahydroxy-6-(3,3-dimethylallyl)flavanone (2a). Chemical structures were established on the basis of spectroscopic data of the natural products and their O-acetyl derivatives. This is the first report of (1a) as a natural product and compound (2a) has not previously been identified in Phellodendron species.
20494304|The photocatalytic activity of ZnO and TiO surfaces for selective oxidation of C-C aliphatic alcohols in contact at 300-370K with the uv-illuminated metal oxide as vapour or as liquid have been determined using molecular O as oxidant in dynamic photoreactors. A mechanism is proposed for oxidative photodehydrogenation of oxygenated liquid alcohols which represents an active site on the metal oxide surface as comprising chemisorbed O adjacent to a surface hydroxyl. The mechanism accounts for observed kinetics and for HO production in oxygenated liquid alcohol/ZnO suspensions. Rates of photo-oxidation are shown to increase with alcohol pressure and with oxygen pressure in the range 152-608 torr for Alcohol vapour/TiO interfaces. Although product distribution among non-dehydrogenation products appeared not inconsistent with alcohol dehydration to an alkene-like surface intermediate followed by oxidative scission of the double bond, attempts to directly observe alkene products or the rapid oxidation of added alkene over the illuminated metal oxide were unsuccessful.
20494312|There are few systems in which it has been possible to compare the substitution rates of Ni(II), Pd(II), and Pt(II) square-planar complexes. This is largely due to the tendency of nickel (II) to form octahedral complexes. However, the use of bidentate ligands having sulphur donor atoms enables such a study to be carried out. Rate constants for substitution reactions of square-planar complexes of Ni(II), Pd(II), and Pt(II) containing bidentate sulphur ligands have been measured in water and methanol. Unidentate and bidentate nucleophiles have been used. A general mechanism is proposed to account for the kinetic data. The order of reactivity of square-planar complexes of Ni(II), Pd(II) and Pt(II) is usually given as: Ni: Pd: Pt:: 10: 10: 1. In the dithiolene systems the order has been found to be approximately: Ni: Pd: Pt::: 10: 10: 1. In the present investigation the order is Ni  Pd, Pt. Changing the solvent from water to methanol causes a decrease in the rate constants but the magnitude of the decrease is dependent on the system being studied. The kinetic results are interpreted in terms of solvent and bonding effects.
20494362|A Lower Palaeozoic sequence comprising approximately 3800m of greywackes and slates exposed in north County Waterford is described. The succession is divided into three formations ranging in age from Caradocian to Upper Llandovery or possibly Middle Wenlock. The oldest formation (the Ross Formation) is composed of grey slates with thin greywackes and tuffs. These pass both upwards and laterally into purple and green slates and tuffs of the Kilmacthomas Formation. These facies interfinger with the grey slates and greywackes of the overlying Ballindysert Formation. The Ballyhest Member is a distinctive coarse greywacke member within the Ballindysert Formation which is interpreted as a submarine turbidite fan. The Lower Palaeozoic rocks have been folded along an east-north-east trend during Caledonian deformation prior to Old Red Sandstone deposition. S1 cleavage transects the axial traces of F1 folds. F2 folds are gentle open folds with a north-west trend. Kink bands, strike faults, small thrusts and large north-trending dextral wrench faults are recognised as later deformational events.
20494523|The kinetics of the solubilisation of hydrocarbon oils in aqueous solutions of a variety of surfactant types have been studied using the captive drop-on-fibre technique. Three basic mechanisms can be identified depending primarily upon the solubility of the oil in water or micelles.
20494410|(+)--3,4-Epoxycarane is efficiently converted to (-)-carvenone by cold concentrated sulphuric acid. (-)-cis-Caran-4-one gives (+)-carvenone under the same conditions. Hydrogenation of either carvenone yields carvomenthone. With p-toluenesulphonic acid (-)-cis-caran-4-one gives p-menth-4(8)-en-2-one and, with trifluoroacetic acid, 8-trifluoroacetoxy-p-menthan-2-one. The formation of p-menth-4(8)-en-2-one and 8-trifluoroacetoxy-p-menthan-2-one suggests a mechanism for the title reaction.
20494333|The synthesis of 4-arylhydrazono-5-pyrazolones and 5-arylazopyrimidines is described. Only one compound, a pyrazolone, showed activity against the HeLa cell in culture.
20494552|A floristic analysis based on 267 relevs from the grazed and mown, seasonally flooded, semi-natural grasslands (or callows) alongside the River Shannon is presented. Sixteen gradational plant communities are described in the text and summarised in a constancy table. Their relationship with published phytosociological units from Ireland and the Netherlands is suggested, and summarised in a hierarchical table. The distribution of the communities on the Shannon callows is indicated. An essential factor in maintaining these plant communities is the annual fluctuation of the level of the River Shannon, which allows wetland plant species to predominate in, and agricultural use to be made of, these grasslands. Flooding in the spring is especially important.
20494364|This paper dealing with the Teliomycetes is the third of a series contributing towards an annotated list of Irish fungi recorded between 1726 and 1975. When completed this series of papers will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi issued since that of Adams and Pethybridge (1910 "Proc. R. Ir. Acad." 28B, 120-166).
20494365|A synoptic survey was made of Lough Murree, a brackish water lake situated in limestone bedrock in County Clare. While having no direct communication with the nearby sea, the lake is subject to periodic marine inundations. This results in an unstable environment liable to unpredictable fluctuations. The limited flora and fauna are compared with populations from similar habitats described by other authors.
20518922|When the nerve-muscle preparations of Rana temporaria L. are exposed to high temperatures, the neuromuscular junction is the first element to fail followed by the muscle and finally nerve. This confirms the results of earlier authors. The adaptation temperature of the frogs affected the survival of the nerve at lethal temperatures but not the muscle or the neuromuscular junction. Muscles which failed to respond to stimulation at 36 showed a significant rise in Na content but no change in K, Ca or Mg. This is correlated with a significant fall in muscle membrane potential. The significance of the results is discussed.
20519009|A series of 4-amino-7-nitrobenzofuroxans has been screened for antitumour activity in mice and those containing 4-piperazinyl substituents had considerable activity.
20494345|A method is presented for predicting the growth of organisms under environmental conditions that vary over time when their growth rate is fairly well defined for fixed environments. A class of models is examined which gives an explicit formula for the standard error of the prediction, thus allowing statistical comparison between observed and predicted growth. An example of the procedure is given. In a study of the robustness of the method for the example it is shown that the variance of the prediction disimproved greatly when the growth of the organism under fixed environmental conditions was not so well defined.
20494917|The deformation history of the area is summarised, and the growth stages of the metamorphic minerals are related to it. Two metamorphic phases are recognised; the first, M, began with the first deformation, D, reached a climax in post-D pre-D times, locally attaining garnet grade, and ended after the second deformation, D; the second, M, broadly syntectonic with the third deformation, D, but of longer duration than this deformation, caused widespread retrogressive alteration of garnet and biotite to chlorite. The area is unique in showing porphyroblastic albite throughout a greater number of stratigraphic units, assigned to the Islay succession, than are seen either in north-east Co. Antrim or in the south-west Highlands of Scotland. It is considered unlikely that albite is of metasomatic origin since it is of M age, mostly earlier than the D deformation, unless metamorphism and metasomatism have occurred simultaneously. Albite has grown by replacement of mica, probably white mica, and it is suggested that this mica was paragonite.
20518911|Fibre diameter measurements were made on untreated, frozen-thawed, and fixed pre- and post-rigor m. biceps brachii and m. plantaris from adult mice. The fixatives were 10% neutral formalin and 10% formaldehyde. Fibre diameter of untreated and fixed muscles decreased significantly when the muscle passed into rigor. The frozen pre-rigor muscle went into thaw-rigor when thawed; the diameter of the fibres was similar to the post-rigor frozen-thawed muscle. Valid comparisons cannot be made on the effect of treatment on pre-rigor muscles because freezing-thawing caused thaw-rigor, and the slow penetration of fixatives gave a mixture of pre- and post-rigor fixed fibres. These observations should be considered before taking biopsy samples from farm animals for muscle fibre dimension studies. The two fixatives used gave significant differences for fibre diameter in post-rigor muscle. This finding is important because of the frequent confusion between "10% formalin" and "10% formaldehyde". Fibre diameter histograms were monophasic for all treatments except for the untreated m. plantaris.
20494292|The rates of acid-catalysed hydration of a series of ethynylferrocenes to the corresponding acetylferrocenes have been measured. The results are in accord with a mechanism involving rate-determining formation of intermediate ferrocenylvinyl cations which are stabilised by alkyl substitution in the cyclopentadienyl rings.
20518920|This is the first attempt to investigate the occurrence, distribution and fluctuation of both phyto- and zooplankton on a quantitative basis along the length of Strangford Lough, Co. Down. Samples were taken by a pump method at five stations and the reasons for the choice of this technique are discussed. Some 136 entities were recorded, 47 of these for the first time in the lough. The species are detailed systematically, with short notes on each one, and tables are given which enable examination of plankton fluctuations at each station month by month. There is some discussion on the effect of the Irish Sea influx on the plankton of the various stations and how this and other factors may be responsible for some of the distribution patterns noted.
20494448|An ongoing programme of synecological investigations off the west coast of Ireland has highlighted the importance and, very often, the dominant role of echinoderms in the bioeconomics of both hard- and soft-bottom communities. Intensive remote sampling and in situ examination have recorded population densities which for many species are so high as to warrant being regarded as 'crowded' and which appear to be relatively long-term phenomena. This obtains notably in respect of the ophiuroids Ophiothrix fragilis (Abildgaard), Ophioccmina nigra (Abildgaard), Acrocnida brachiata (Montagu), Amphiura filiformis (O. F. Muller), Amphiura chiajei Forbes; the holothuroids Aslia lefevrei (Barrois), Thyone fusus (O. F. Muller), Neopentadactyla mixta stergren; the echinoid Paracentrotus lividus (Lamarck); and the crinoid Antedon bifida (Pennant). Consideration is given to the ecological causality behind these aggregations and to some possible attendant advantages for the participants.
20494334|The distribution of freshwater gammarids in N. Ireland was studied during 1976/77 and revealed the presence of four species. Of these, two are relatively new to N. Ireland and their distribution is plotted and considered with respect to the original gammarid fauna. Possible means of introduction and subsequent spread of the two newcomers is discussed and compared with similar invasions in the British Isles and the Continent.
20519003|Gravity and magnetic data available in the Kingscourt area have been reinterpreted in the context of recent additional measurements intended to define steep local gradients and regional trends. Two major geophysical trends emerge; a north-south and an approximately northeast to southwest or "caledonoid" direction consistent, though not invariably coincident with the apparent geological structural pattern. The geophysical results suggest that the early subsidence in the Kingscourt graben during lower Carboniferous time was controlled by major faults of "caledonoid" trend originating in the pre-Palaeozoic basement. Responding to change in the stress pattern in upper Carboniferous time the north-south trending Kingscourt fault became dominant, initially only in the south, migrating northwards to preserve the narrow wedge of Permo-Triassic sediment near Kingscourt.
20519046|Heats of sorption of water as functions of coverage in Zn-A and Zn-Y are discussed; heats for zero coverage are calculated. The energetic heterogeneity at low coverages is attributed to the formation of intrazeolitic tetragonal complexes with three framework oxygens and one water molecule coordinated to the Zn ions. Ion-solvation theory is used to correlate heats of immersion of an extensive range of cationic forms of zeolites L, A, X and Y; the binding energies of the cations in the anhydrous forms of these zeolites are tabulated.
20494356|Parts of a MS written in 1915 have been edited and are presented with updated nomenclature. A description of the fossilised post-glacial mollusc fauna is included together with an ecological account of present-day land and freshwater molluscs of Ulster. An annotated list of all mollusc species recorded in Ulster up to 1915 and a bibliography are incorporated. Problems of the origin and distribution of molluscs in Ulster are discussed.
20494413|1-Arylnaphthalenes have been synthesised in good yield from cyclopropyl ketones by using protic acids at reflux temperatures. Evidence for an overall mechanism is presented which indicates that the corresponding acyclic -enone is an intermediate on the reaction pathway.
20494354|Synthetic procedures are reviewed for the 1,5-diketones
20519015|A thermodynamic analysis of the equilibria of CO and NH sorption in the temperature range 27315-47315 K in Linde molecular sieve type A ion-exchanged with Li, Na, Ag, Ca, Sr, Zn, Cd, Co and Ni is performed and the affinities, isosteric heats and entropies of sorption are discussed. The sequence of the isosteric heats of CO sorption at a coverage of 5 cm s.t.p. g was: Ca &gt; Sr &gt; Na &gt; Li &gt; Zn &gt; Cd &gt; Ni &gt; CoA and for ammonia at a coverage of 30 cm s.t.p. g: Zn &gt; Cd &gt; Ni &gt; Na &gt; Ag &gt; CoA. The thermodynamic data support our earlier conclusions (Part I) and also recent X-ray crystallographic results that in dehydrated type A zeolites Zn, Cd, Co and Ni cations are recessed into the  cages.
20494896|Twenty-six species of parasitic copepods from Irish waters in the collections of the National Museum of Ireland and, where possible, their hosts are listed. Six of these species have not previously been recorded for Irish coastal waters viz. Caligus zei Norman and T. Scott, Lepeophtheirus hippoglossi (Kryer), Philorthagoriscus serratus (Kryer), Pandarus bicolor Leach, Acanthochondria flurae Kryer and Chondracanthus zei de la Roche.
20518902|The Authors examined sets of scales from 3253 brown trout from more than 40 Irish streams and rivers and from some 76 lakes and reservoirs. Creel census returns and data provided by the Irish Specimen Fish Committee were also analysed. In running water, the largest and fastest-growing trout occurred in streams and rivers of high calcium content in limestone areas. The mean lengths of trout in such waters, at 2, 3 and 4 years old, were respectively 20, 30 and 35-40 cm. The smallest and slowest-growing trout occurred in lime-deficient waters draining acid rocks. The mean lengths of trout at 2, 3 and 4 years old, in such waters, were in some cases as low as 12, 15-16 and 17-18 cm respectively. In general, there was a correlation between bicarbonate alkalinity and trout growth, but there were some anomalies; notably some sandstone rivers, e.g. the Bandon in which growth was good, and some granite rivers in which calcareous drift made the water decidedly alkaline in reaction, e.g. the upper Slaney, but in which growth was poor. In lakes, the growth of trout was characteristically fast in alkaline waters and slow in acid waters. Length-for-age of lake trout was also affected by the length of time the young trout spent in the tributary streams before migrating to the lake. The mean length of lake trout at 4 years of age varied from as little as 20-25 cm in relatively unproductive lakes to as much as 35 to 40 cm in rich lakes. In small lakes there was a tendency for the growth of the trout to be inversely proportionate to the stock density and there were instances of quite fast growth in some relatively barren lakes in which, because of restricted spawning facilities, there were very few trout. Very large 'ferox' (fish-eating) trout weighing 4500 to 9000g occurred in some large lakes; they were fairly common in lakes of moderate bicarbonate alkalinity (10 to 20 mEq/l) such as Corrib and Mask but rare in highly alkaline lakes such as Lough Ennell, in which invertebrate food was more abundant.
20494831|On the south-east side of the Main Donegal Granite the Dalradian rocks comprise metasediments together with numerous early basic sills. The general strike is northeasterly. The wide variety of easily distinguishable rock types in the metasediments has made it possible to establish the stratigraphy with confidence. Thus the metasediments are found to belong to two successions, the Fintown and Kilmacrenan successions. The structurally lower Fintown succession, although Dalradian in character, does not resemble any other Dalradian succession so far described from Ireland or Scotland. The upper Kilmacrenan succession may be correlated with the well-known and widespread Islay succession. These successions are separated by an important thrust, the Knockateen Thrust, on which the Kilmacrenan succession was carried northwestwards over the Fintown succession. Locally this thrust is obscured by a NE.-SW. fault. This, and other NE.-SW. faults in the area, play a large part in determining the outcrop of the different strata.
20494564|An ecological survey of Inishmore, Aran Islands, Co. Galway, identified eight different rocky shore types, ranging from very sheltered to extremely exposed. The physiographic and biological features of a representative of each shore type are described. The sandy shores were studied and reference is made to their characteristic flora and fauna.
20494506|Carbonyl derivatives of unsubstituted and N-substituted 2-phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahy-droquinolin-4-one ('azaflavanone') were synthesised and the steric structures of the products established by C n.m.r. spectroscopy. The ketonic character of the starting compounds was also studied by sodium borohydride reduction, and spectroscopic elucidation of the steric structures of the resulting new compounds was achieved. All the carbonyl derivatives were shown to have E-configurations. The half-chair conformation of the hetero ring of the '4-hydroxyazaflavanones' was evidenced on the basis of spectroscopic data.
20494257|The deposits in the White Bog, Co. Down are described in outline. Botanical evidence shows that the basal deposits are late glacial in age. The Mollusca exhibit a series of changes from arctic forms at the base to a modern fauna in the upper layers. The Pisidia are dealt with in detail. The rare Pisidium vincentianum B. B. Woodward occurs in one of the arctic beds. P. conventus Clessin is here recorded for the first time as a fossil in the British Isles, and P. obtusale (Lamarck) var. lapponicum Clessin for the first time in Ireland.
20518992|The stratigraphy, structure, petrography, and sedimentology of middle Ordovician and lower Silurian sediments of an area between Shercock and Aghnamullen, Counties Cavan and Monaghan, are described in detail. The succession is divided into four formations and four members. The Ordovician sediments (middle Caradoc in age) are represented by a black lutite sequence and the lower Silurian sediments (Rhuddanian to Idwian Stages) by a sequence of older quartz-arenites followed by an interbedded sequence of greywacke arenites and lutites with a single volcanic marker horizon. Numerous graptolites obtained from interbedded black lutites provide good faunal control. The rocks were subjected to considerable deformation during the post-Silurian orogeny. Five fold phases are recognised as well as several types of fault. The rocks were intruded by basic dykes both during and after the deformation. The lower Silurian greywackes are mainly lithic wackes in composition, whilst one lower Silurian formation is composed of mainly quartz-arenites. Igneous rock fragments are especially abundant in the greywackes. The sedimentary structures are those typically associated with both proximal and distal-type turbidite deposition. Syndeformational structures are well developed. The transport directions of the turbidites are variable but most of the detritus is likely to have been derived from a northerly landmass. The basin of deposition contained mainly black silt and mud in the middle Ordovician but received a very considerable volume of clastic arenite sediment in Silurian times.
20494940|a. The Irish psocid fauna is described; 13 new country records are listed, the total number of species recorded is 37. b. The information presented comes from a field survey and a re-examination of the King collections in the National Museum of Ireland. c. The species are grouped into a number of distribution categories: 1. Species of general distribution. 2. Southern element. 3. Species associated with man. 4. Species of unknown status. d. In a forest close to Dublin the seasonal cycles of the common species of Psocoptera were studied.
20518997|From MS notes and maps, preserved material in the National Museum of Ireland and published records, information is presented on the distribution of twenty-one species, one undifferentiated species and one subspecies of Irish millipedes. Additionally included in the Irish list are two species of millipede, whose identity has not been authenticated, and one exotic species.
20519053|Starch gel electrophoresis was used to compare the haemoglobins of interspecific hybrids between various salmonid, cyprinid and pleuronectid fishes with those of their parent species. All parental haemoglobins were present in the electropherograms of F1 progeny indicating that the globin genes of the parent species were active in the hybrids. F1 roach  bream and plaice  flounder hybrids had additional haemoglobins assumed to have been formed by random association of parental globins. A group of F2 salmon  trout hybrids showed only brown trout haemoglobins and appeared to contribute only trout genes to F3 and parental backcross progeny. The haemoglobin patterns of a small number of cyprinid and pleuronectid backcrosses and a single triploid F1 plaice  flounder hybrid are also described.
20494490|The stereoselective transformation of 2-methylhept-1-ene-3-ol (7) into syn-2-methyl-1,3-heptanediol (10) is reported to occur via an intramolecular hydrosilylation-oxidation sequence, as follows. Silylation of (7) with chlorodi-isopropylsilane gave 2-methyl-3-di-isopropylsilyloxyhept-1-ene (8). Treatment of the latter with a catalytic quantity of (PhP)RhCl in THF gave a mixture of cis and trans isomers of 5-butyl-2,2-di-isopropyl-4-methyl-1-oxa-2-silacyclopentane (9). Oxidation with HO/KF/DMF gave a mixture of diol (10) and its anti-isomer (11). Derivatisation with di-isopropylsilyl bis-trifluoromethane sulphonate, followed by g.c. analysis, indicated that the procedure showed substantial stereoselectivity in favour of the syn-diol (10). Under optimal conditions, the ratio of (10): (11) was found to be 30: 1. It is argued that the sense of the stereoselectivity is determined by the intramolecular nature of the reaction. The observed selectivity is complementary to that of the intermolecular hydroboration-oxidation of allylic alcohols.
20494478|The results of a pollen, spore and macrofossil analysis of a 0.4m-long peat section representing 250 years from a hollow in Woodfield Bog near Clara, Co. Offaly, Ireland, are reported here. A significant decline in the Corylus pollen curve, attributed to cutting, and an increase of the curves of Pinus and Fagus, as a result of planting, were dated to A.D. 1733. This characteristic point can be used to date other diagrams from subrecent peat deposits of Irish midland raised bogs, which is not yet possible with conventional dating techniques. By using pollen concentration values from Woodfield Bog and Carbury Bog, as well as information from a pollen trap on Raheenmore Bog, a mean pollen accumulation rate of 1397 pollen grains per sq. cm/year was established. An overview of the plantation history of this area is provided. The palynological information was compared with data obtained from (old) maps and aerial photographs. A close fit between the number of plantations and wooded areas and fluctuations of the amount of tree pollen is shown. Comparison of overall palynological diagrams with diagrams for cereals derived from agricultural statistics demonstrated close correlations. The reconstruction of the local bog vegetation showed the response to wet/dry fluctuations: the bog vegetation reacted to fluctuations in the amount of rainfall and not to temperature fluctuations. It is suggested that microtopographical elements (i.e. hummocks and hollows) differ quantitatively rather than qualitatively, which is also implied by a lateral expansion of the hummock or hollow vegetation during drier and wetter local moisture conditions respectively.
20519043|This paper dealing with the Gasteromycetes is the first of a series contributing towards an annotated list of Irish fungi recorded between 1726 and 1975. When completed, this series of papers will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi issued since that of Adams and Pethybridge in 1910.
20494931|An investigation of the pelagic copepods in the plankton of Killeany Bay, Aran Islands, carried out over a twelve month period, yielded some data on the occurrence of Calanus finmarchicus and Calanus helgolandicus in the area. In the light of this data, the seasonal distribution, the relative abundance and the sex ratios are dealt with in broad terms. Brief reference is made to life histories. The sampling methods are described in detail. A note on species differentiation with an account of their general distribution and their distribution in Irish waters is also included.
20518948|The stratigraphy, palaeontology, petrography, sedimentology, provenance and structure of the Silurian rocks near Hollyford, Co. Tipperary, are documented. The sequence is considered to be of late Wenlock (Cyrtograptus lundgreni Zone) age and is assigned to a single formation--the Hollyford Formation.
20519032|Investigations are reported on the nitrate assimilation capacity of twelve wheat varieties which were being evaluated as potential breeding stocks. Assimilation capacity was measured by activity of the enzyme nitrate reductase. The varieties examined showed a wide range in activity in both shoot and root tissue. Since wheat varieties are largely self-fertilising, and generally approximate pure lines, most of these differences may be regarded as genetic and susceptible to exploitation in breeding/selection programmes. The principal site of activity in wheat appears to be in the leaf tissue, where peak activity in the field occurred between three and six weeks old. Root activity appears related to shoot activity--both are probably related to incoming levels of nitrate in the plant. These results are discussed as well as possible implications for more precise breeding (screening) techniques, increased productivity, and the more efficient use of costly nitrogenous fertiliser.
20494470|The authors describe a new species of harpacticoid copepod, Leptopsyllus (L.) celticus n. sp. (Paramesochridae Lang), collected both on the west coast of Ireland (Galway Bay) and on the coast of North-Finistre (Brittany, France). A key to the genus Leptopsyllus is given. /// Les auteurs dcrivent une nouvelle espce de coppode harpacticode, Leptopsyllus (L.) celticus n. sp. (Paramesochridae Lang), rcolte  la fois sur la cte ouest de l'Irlande (baie de Galway) et sur la cte du Nord-Finistre (Bretagne, France). Une cl des espces du genre Leptopsyllus est donne.
20494558|Eskers are a prominent feature of the landscape of the Irish midlands, forming low, steep-sided ridges which may extend for many kilometres. Most of these ridges are too steep for cultivation and are utilised largely for grazing, but in places patches of native woodland occur, some being several kilometres in length. These woodlands have been surveyed as part of a national woodland survey and this paper describes their character, extent and conservation value. Their significance in respect of the very small area of native woodland remaining in the country is discussed, with particular reference to their history and possible relationship with the original post-glacial forests.
20494872|Five, chemically and petrographically distinct granite types are recognised within 14 square miles of outcrop of the Galway Granite (Middle-Upper Devonian age) in the Carna area, Connemara, Eire. Modal data (25 specimens) show the granites to be principally biotite adamellites but granodioritic members are also present. Chemical consanguinity of this calc-alkaline series is implied from the regular trends shown by 25 specimens in their major and minor element chemistry of which the most characteristic features are Niggli k values of 0.37-0.51, Niggli mg values of 0.44-0.48 and oxidation ratios of 42-36. Chemical and physical data are also presented for ten potash felspars and two garnets separated from the granite types. The Galway Granite is shown to be intrusive into the migmatitic country rock whilst the sequence of intrusion within the complex is one of basic granite types followed by successively more silica rich members. The crescentic outcrop of four of the separately intruded granite types is suggestive of ring intrusion.
20519051|Field and laboratory studies were carried out on four soil profiles from a selected drumlin in the drumlin belt of north-central Ireland. Three of the soils possessed hardened, indurated subsurface layers, locally known as "channel", and their properties and genesis are compared with those of a fourth profile which contained a friable, illuvial horizon at comparable depths. A direct relationship between the occurrence of induration and degree of slope was found to occur. The indurated horizons have many of the properties of fragipans and the degree of induration shows an inverse relationship to the amount of clay and iron present. It is suggested that iron is first removed from the profile, thereby rendering the clay more susceptible to translocation. The usual cementing agents such as silica and alumina were found not to be involved in the induration and compaction of the subsoil.
20518976|Five distinct glacial episodes have been recognised in County Dublin. Ice-caps developed over the Leinster mountains and advanced northwards into the survey area on three separate occasions. These local events alternated with two ice-sheet glaciations which were associated with major centres of dispersion to the north-east and north-west of the county. Evidence for a possible sixth episode is also discussed. The length and status of the interval between each event cannot be determined from the available information.
20494851|A SURVEY is made of available records of early embryogeny, i.e. from fertilization to the mature proembryo, in conifers and taxads. On the basis of this evidence it is claimed that a uniform plan of development is shown in the early embryogeny of all conifers and taxads (but excluding for the time being the Araucariaceae). This basal plan shows a sequence of 3 stages. Stage 1 is a stage of free nuclei at the archegonial base. Stage 2 is a stage of nuclear arrangement and first membrane formation giving a single open tier, O, above and a group of primary embryo cells, pE, variously arranged, below--the O: pE stage. Stage 3 is produced by a further internal division, normally affecting all the units of Stage 2, and gives the mature proembryo. Divisions in the O tier give the upper tier, U, in one plane and the suspensor tier, S, in one plane. The pE cells (or in podocarps their nuclei) are duplicated to give the lower group, E, of embryo cells proper. The proembryo may be shortly described as being of a U: S: E type. The use of the term prosuspensor for the S tier of these normal types should be discontinued. As there may be 5, 4 or 3 free mitoses at Stage 1 the number of nuclei available for incorporation at Stage 2 may range from 8 to 32. The O: pE ratio of cell numbers may therefore vary greatly, even from genus to genus, as will also the x and y numbers in the mature proembryo U x: S x: E y, but the plan and sequence of development remain normally the same. The dropping out of one or more of the free mitoses at Stage 1 seems to be a characteristic evolutionary tendency in conifer embryogeny. An embryogeny based on 3 free mitoses would be more advanced than one based on 5. Early embryogeny in the Pinus type is reviewed in relation to these conclusions. While conforming to the generalized type reasons are given to show that, in detail, it is not primitive for coniferous plants but is a derivative, advanced and rather specialized type. Reasons are given for the necessity of a new nomenclature for the tiers in proembryos of the Pinus type. The terms rosette and primary suspensor should be discontinued. It is suggested that the tiers, from above down, should be called--the upper tier U; the vestigial suspensor vS, replacing rosette; the embryonal suspensor, eS, the de facto elongating cells, replacing primary suspensor; and the embryo tier, E. The proembryo formula would be:-- U 4: vS 4: eS 4: E 4, to distinguish it from the normal U x: S x: E y type.
20494425|An extensive in situ survey of Kilkieran Bay (west coast of Ireland) established the presence and distribution of seven discrete epibenthic animal associations. Identified on the basis of qualitative examination and named for one or more visually dominating elements of the flora or fauna, these are: the Laminaria saccharina association, the Raspailia-Stelligera association, the Lithothamnium association, the Musculus discors association, the Upper Laminaria hyperborea association, the Lower Laminaria hyperborea association and the Axinella dissimilis association. The ecological background to these associations is discussed and a catalogue of their component species is included.
20494900|This field and laboratory study concerns a group of soils of widespread occurrence on drift deposits of the Weichsel Glaciation in Ireland. The soils are of major agricultural importance. In general these soils display profile features that reflect formation processes incompatible with the nature of their parent materials or with contemporary environmental conditions. An explanation for the apparent anomaly, based on the pedogenetic history of the soils, is put forward; the major role played in this regard by a succession of vegetation cover, and by leaf and litter leachates in particular, is highlighted. Many of the soils possess polygenetic profiles; their classification and the problems entailed are discussed. Certain profile features are considered in relation to the agricultural use of the soils, thus providing some fresh concepts by which to guide cultural and management practices towards increased productivity.
20494309|The complete and intermediate neglect of differential overlap (CNDO and INDO) self-consistent molecular orbital theories are presented within the zero differential overlap approximation for valence electrons in open shell molecules containing one or more transition metal atoms. The open shell formulae simplify in the case of closed shell configurations.
20518877|Nineteen samples of dry heath in north County Wicklow in which Ulex gallii, Calluna vulgaris and Erica cinerea were dominant or co-dominant, were examined. The structure of the Ulex-dominant heaths, which represented seral stages in a burn-succession, is described. Following burning, which has little effect on their abundance and distribution within a stand, Ulex and Calluna regenerate vegetatively. Erica, however, regenerates by seed and is most abundant 2-3 years after burning. Short-lived closed-canopy and long-lived open-canopy stages in the regeneration of Ulex can be recognised, with damage by frost a factor in the destruction of canopies. Burning, as infrequently as once in 50 years, and grazing appear to prevent the replacement of Ulex heath by grassland. Little evidence of cyclic regeneration was found, and in tussocked Ulex heaths the component micro-communities appear to develop independently.
20518853|A detailed description is given of the sedimentary sequence at Glencolumbkille, County Donegal. This is an important area for the study of the Dalradian Boulder Bed because of the completeness of the succession and the excellency of the exposures. Graphitic schists are followed successively by limestone, striped schist, dolomite, dolomitic boulder bed, semipelitic boulder bed, increasingly psammitic boulder bed with interbedded quartzites, a distinctive thin calcareous dark schist, and finally a thick quartzite, that of Slieve Tooey. The Boulder Bed is described in special detail. Four important periods of movement are recognised in the area, of which the third and fourth are the most important as they produced the Glencolumbkille anticline and syncline. Four lesser phases of late movement followed. The metamorphism reached a peak during the declining stages of the second folding in the almandine amphibolite facies when the assemblage muscovite-biotite-garnet-quartz-oligoclase-ilmenite-graphite was stable in the pelites. The presence of dolomite marble is believed to indicate that the partial pressure of carbon dioxide was high. A late period of re-heating with static growth of biotite and hornblende in the upper greenschist facies was followed by a retrogressive, lower, greenschist facies metamorphism and the production of chlorite. The metadolerites are described.
20518947|The oxidations of a number of 4-aryl- and -aralkylthio-7-nitrobenzofurazans and their N-oxides (benzofuroxans) to the sulphinyl- and sulphonyl- derivatives are described. The aryl- and aralkyl- sulphinylbenzofuroxans undergo an intramolecular rearrangement, involving oxygen migration from nitrogen to sulphur, to yield sulphonylbenzofurazans.
20494376|The chironomid fauna from two blanket bogs, Glenamoy, County Mayo, and Featherbed Mountain, County Dublin, is examined. The annual rainfall is high (127-152cm per year) in both areas; the aquatic habitats within the ecosystem are characterised by humic water, with low concentrations of nutrients. Sixty-one species are recorded, of which thirteen are new Irish records. Faunal diversity is greater at Glenamoy, but larval density and biomass are higher on Featherbed Mountain. It is suggested that low pH is an important factor in restricting species diversity on Featherbed Mountain.
20494313|Acetylation of D-fucose with acetic anhydride-sodium acetate gave the crystalline -D-1,2,3- and 1,2,4- triacetates (18.4 and  3% respectively). The structures of these compounds was established by p.m.r. spectroscopy, and the crystalline 4-O-methyl derivative of the 1,2,3-triacetate was readily prepared. Similar esterification of L-fucose yielded the crystalline -1,2,3- and 1,2,4-triacetates (9.5 and 11.7%, respectively) which were identified by comparison with the D-enantiomers, and by methylation.
20494835|The Dalradian inlier of north-eastern County Antrim may be divided into two parts along a line not quite coincident with the crest of an antiform of bedding and foliation. The small-scale structures of the two areas have different styles and, whereas in the north-western part the axes trend to 040 N., in the south-eastern part they plunge 15 to 165 N. Preferred lattice and dimensional orientation of minerals may most often be related to ubiquitous lineations of microscopic scale which usually trend N.W.-S.E. in both areas. There is a single plane of symmetry perpendicular to the lineation and the evidence suggests that the lineation and related fabrics resulted from movements about the lineation axis. It is considered that the lineation and foliation were formed simultaneously and were developed independently of and earlier than the small-scale (fold) structures. The movements by which they were brought about probably represented an early phase of the Caledonian orogeny.
20494405|The heartwood of Dalbergia latifolia Roxb. has yielded seventeen natural products of which one, dalcriodain, is the first binary neoflavanoid to be isolated. The compounds also include the first examples of a xanthone and a flavan recorded in the Dalbergia. The structures of the extractives were assigned from spectroscopic measurements. A synthesis of 2,3,7-trimethoxyxanthone is described.
20494263|The synthesis, antibacterial activity and cytotoxic effect of some 'mixed' hydrazone derivatives of pyruvaldehyde and ethyl pyruvaldehyde are described.
20490923|The terminal voltage and electrode potentials observed during the electrolysis of sodium chloride solutions are found to be sufficiently reproducible to establish quantitative relations with current density and other variables. These are correlated with the overvoltage determinations of other workers in unrelated experiments. It is found that the observed cell voltages may be expressed as the sum of the electrode overvoltages, ohmic terms involving resistances in the cell and a constant term, in agreement with a relation established previously for a technical chlorate installation. A theoretical interpretation of the results is given which leads to the inference that hydroxyl discharge conditions the anode potential. This conclusion is in harmony with the theory of the process already given.
20518944|The amino group in 1-substituted 5-amino-4-cyano-3-cyanomethylpyrazoles fails to condense with aromatic aldehydes. In the presence of catalyst, however, aldehydes condense with the reactive methylene group present; the mono-arylidene products subsequently form Schiff bases with a second mol. equiv. of aldehyde.
20494339|Investigations are reported on the capacity of eleven wheat varieties to assimilate late season nitrate, applied at the post-tillering stage. Three broad response types (as measured by nitrate reductase activity) have been identified: (a) a marked response maintained to the end of the season; (b) an initial response which is not sustained; (c) the absence of any notable response. The results indicate that some highly productive commercial varieties show higher rates of nitrate reductase activity up to the flag leaf stage than less productive ones. The data are aimed at the development of biochemical criteria in the breeding and selection of wheat.
20518981|The food of the cormorant at seven breeding colonies in Ireland is described. Wrasse (Labridae) were generally the most important food item (60% by weight), eels (Anguilla anguilla) were second in importance (20%), followed by flatfish (10%) and salmonids (2%). Differences in food between colonies is related to the fish available locally, and it is shown that cormorants change their feeding habits according to the fish species available on their fishing grounds. The cormorant is discussed as a predator of commercial fish, and some observations are made relating to the application of bounties.
20494261|Over seventy years have elapsed since the publication of the last consolidated list of cetacean strandings and captures on the Irish coast. No such consolidated list of turtles has appeared. In order to remedy this situation a provisional list of cetacea and turtles has been compiled from published records, records in the British Museum (Natural History), specimens in the National Museum of Ireland and National Museum correspondence. Twenty-two cetacean species are listed, eighteen of which have been stranded or captured on our coasts. In addition, the existence of two further species off our coasts was brought to light by the activities of the whaling companies. Finally, there is some evidence to suggest the occasional presence of two further species off our coasts but no definite stranding or capture has been recorded. Three species of turtle are recorded, most of which strandings occur off the south and west coasts.
20494555|Length frequency analyses were carried out on samples of mussels, Mytilus edulis L., from 23 exposed rocky shores around the Irish coast. Results show that direct settlement of larvae to adult mussel beds occurs widely on the lower shore on Irish exposed coasts and that such settlement also occurs on midshore mussel beds. However, there was little or no evidence for recent direct settlement to the five mussel populations sampled between Dalkey and Bunmahon inclusive on the east and south coasts.
20518886|Widespread stratigraphic evidence is presented for the glaciation of the area north of the Sperrin Mountains by two ice sheets. Other isolated deposits, and the regional pattern of surface glacial deposits, indicates that two further ice sheets probably were developed. The litho-stratigraphic formations have been defined, where possible, for the Sperrin Mountain area and adjacent parts of north-eastern Donegal. The probable relationships of the formations to the geologic-climatic units of Ireland defined for the Pleistocene Period by the Quaternary Era Sub-Committee of Ireland are suggested. The regional patterns of the major glacial events are described and the tentative wider correlations are discussed. The incomplete and inconclusive nature of some of the evidence indicates that further investigations are required before a more complete picture of the sequence of events can be presented.
20494265|The structural geology and petrology of the isolated Caledonian granite of Rockabill off the north Dublin coast is described. Its features suggest that the exposures occupy a near-roof position in a small stock, where post-consolidation greisening was active. The rock is a massive normal granite, varying from a coarser microcline-porphyritic type to a non-porphyritic microgranite. It appears to have been emplaced by injection of a succession of sheet intrusions, and subsequent to its solidification an important series of transcurrent faults, operating in a dextral sense, tranversed the body.
20518950|The Carboniferous marine strata at Hook Head, Co. Wexford, are divided into the Porter's Gate Formation which includes a lower Houseland Sandstone Member and an upper Lyraun Cove Shale Member, and the Hook Head Formation which contains the Bullockpark Bay Dolomite Member. These formations are recognised in the western part of the Wexford syncline and in the eastern part of the Carrick-on-Suir syncline. Conodont faunas from the Porter's Gate Formation suggest correlation with part of the Lower Limestone Shale Group of the eastern Mendip Hills, England. The upper part of the Hook Head Formation is correlated with part of the Black Rock Group in the eastern Mendip Hills.
20494408|Deuterium labelling has been used to study the mechanism of the acid-catalysed rearrangements of santonin. The results suggest that the dienone-phenol rearrangement in strong acid proceeds by initial aromatisation of ring A, followed by conversion of the trans-lactone ring to the cis ring. In the more basic solvents, isomerisation to 6-episantonin involves an equilibrium between santonin and its 6-isomer. In intermediate solvents, formation of the enol acetate proceeds via 6-proton loss, but of the desmotroposantonins probably by initial aromatisation of ring A. The intermediacy of the unsaturated acid is inferred in the conversion of (-) - to (+) -desmotroposantonin.
20518875|The Old Red Sanstone outcrop of the Reeks and Caragh Valley areas west of Killarney has been remapped on a scale of six inches to one mile. The Old Red Sandstone is at least 12,000 feet thick here, the base being unexposed. Five lithostratigraphical divisions have been established in this predominantly arenaceous succession, based largely on colour changes. The lowest division is a formation of massive green sandstones, at least 4,000 feet thick. These grade up into massive grey sandstones, up to 3,000 feet thick, and, in turn, into a formation of purple sandstones with intercalated quartz-jasper conglomerates, 4,500 feet thick. The uppermost 600 feet or so of the Old Red Sandstone, represented by both red and green sandstones, is followed by a typical development of 'Lower Limestone Shales' in Muckross Demesne. The Old Red Sandstone of the Reeks area is considered to be of fluvial or fluvio-lacustrine origin, deposited in a rapidly subsiding basin of geosynclinal magnitude in a climate subject to considerable seasonal variations in rainfall. A lithological correlation is attempted between the Old Red Sandstone of the Reeks area with that of Slieve Mish to the north and that of the Kenmare River area to the south. Though lacking in palaeontological control, a reasonable correlation can be effected for the upper parts of the Old Red Sandstone prism, showing that there has been progressive northwards overlap out of the geosynclinal area. The Armorican structures of the Reeks area are described in detail, the major fold axes and faults having been given local names. Displacements of up to 10,000 feet have been established on some of the faults, showing that these are major structural elements in the south Irish Fold Arc. An attempt is made to summarise the structural history of the Reeks area and the location of the 'Armorican Front' of the Fold Arc is described in detail for the first time. The position of the 'Front', as defined by the most important northwards-younging structural elements, is inferred to have been controlled partly by the behaviour of a group of slaty rocks below the Green Sandstones during the Armorican compression.
20519056|Multivariate techniques were applied to the oceanographic and plankton data of Galway Bay for October 1973 It was possible to show a delineation of areas by plotting principal component values on a map Three areas were delineated a "neritic" area where Sagitta setosa was dominant, an area of "oceanic origin" where Sagitta tasmanica and Sagitta elegans were the dominant chaetognaths, and an area in between, where species form the other two areas mixed When canonical variables were plotted similarly to the principal components these three areas could also be detected.
20518874|Salmon numbering 542 captured at sea by drift nets were tagged in the months of June and July 1962, 1963 and 1964. Seventy-two tags (13.3%) were recovered. The fish dispersed widely around the Irish coast and recoveries were made also from Wales (two), Scotland (one) and Sweden (one). Migrations at speeds of over 60 km per day were recorded.
20494289|One of the most extensive coastal drift sections in east-central Ireland is the continuous exposure trending southwards from Killiney Bay, County Dublin, to the boundary between Counties Dublin and Wicklow, a distance of approximately 4km. It is suggested that all the horizons in the cliffs accumulated during a single complex glacial episode and that a more recent ice-sheet failed to remove these deposits or to cover them with its own material.
20494884|1. Experiments were carried out on Acanthocyclops viridis (Jurine) to determine the duration of the egg stage and the length of the various larval stages at constant temperatures varying from 10C to 30C. It was found that while the duration of the various stages was shorter at higher temperatures each stage was not affected to the same extent. For instance the duration of the egg stage was shortest at 30 whereas the duration of the third nauplius stage was shortest at 218. 2. A number of experiments were carried out in which the temperature was continually changing during development. Calculations based on the constant temperature experiments showed that the duration of the development from the time the egg was laid until the end of the 5th nauplius stage was shortened due to the alterations of temperature. The acceleration was small and amounted to 122%. 3. Similar experiments with the copepodid stages showed that alterations of temperature had no effect on the developmental rate.
20494955|A total of 412 salmon including 93.4% grilse were tagged from the Carnlough and Torr Head bag nets at each weekend within the period 28 June to 27 July 1969. Recaptures, mainly to the north and west, by nets and angling totalled 102 fish (24.8%) of which 46 (45%) were taken in bag nets and only one fish was reported from open sea drift nets. The recapture rate depended upon physical condition at release, fish in good condition yielding 33.9% return whereas other categories were reduced to 21.4%. The majority of the fish (62.4%) were recaptured within 20 miles of the release station and overall less than half the fish were at liberty for more than 15 days.
20518885|The (? Eocambrian) succession of metasediments includes the Glencolumbkille Dolomite, Portaskaig Tillite (Boulder Bed of earlier literature), Kiltyfanned Schist, and Slieve Tooey Quartzite, and is particularly well exposed and complete at Glencolumbkille, Kiltyfanned and Fanad in Co. Donegal. Following serious questioning of the origin of late Pre-Cambrian till-like rocks elsewhere, detailed re-examination of the succession, and of the Portaskaig Tillite in particular, suggests that this formation originated from the subaerial movement of supraglacial flow tills into a high-energy beach, or shallow marine environment. Comparison with similar deposits forming at the present time in Vestspitsbergen (Boulton 1967, 1968) accounts for 22 out of 24 of the principal features of the Portaskaig Tillite. Systematic variation of the mixtite matrix composition with stratigraphic height is confirmed by 63 modal analyses and 48 X-ray fluoresence analyses for 21 elements. The source area was probably a granitic-metamorphic basement complex overlain by blanket carbonates and quartzose sandstones, possibly lying to the south-east of the basin of deposition.
20494314|()-Norephedrine, CHNO, is the only member of the ephedrine series to have been shown by crystal structure analysis to exist in a non-extended conformation. A copper complex, (CHNO)Cu. 3HO, in which ()-norephedrine acts as chelating ligand has been prepared and its molecular structure has been determined by X-ray crystallographic methods. The crystals are monoclinic, space group P21/a, with a = 10.29, b = 24.58, c = 7.81,  = 91.8, Z = 4. Refinement of the structure by least squares gave a final R of 8.8% for 1061 independent reflections. In the complex the norephedrine has the normal extended conformation in which the amino and phenyl groups are anti.
20494308|It is demonstrated that the calcium transport adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase) of the internal membrane system of muscle cells requires magnesium, calcium and potassium ions for full activity. Optimal conditions for calcium transport were derived by varying the relative concentrations of the three cations in a number of experiments. Maximal uptake takes place in 5mM Mg, 5mM ATP, 100mM K and 15M free Ca. There is only one other enzyme which requires three cations for activity and it is also a membrane-bound cation transport system. There are a number of properties in common between the sodium and potassium transport, magnesium-dependent ATPase of the outer cell membrane and the intracellular calcium ATPase but there are some crucial differences as well. A common evolutionary origin, with early divergence, is postulated.
20494415|The preparation for biological evaluation of some new analogues was suggested by the high antiviral activity of purine nucleosides such as Ara-A and acycloguanosine, the structural variation possible in the sugar moiety, and the adaptability of the thio-sugar synthesis devised in the Laboratories of the Medical Research Council of Ireland. We have accordingly prepared adenine and the much less accessible guanine derivatives of 4-thio-DL-erythrofuranose and their 2,3-seco-counterparts. In the course of the work we studied the application of the various experimental conditions for purine glycosylation to these sugars. N-Benzoyladenine and hypoxanthine required activation in the -HgCl and -SiMe forms respectively and yields of single isomers obtained were 15-25%. However, through the activating influence of the halogen in 2-acetamido-6-chloropurine direct reaction gave (45%) the precursor of the guanosine analogues. 6-Haloquinazoline-2,4-diones were glycosylated for comparison with nucleosides of 5-iodouracil and (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)uracil.
20494888|The ovary of the cestode, Proteocephalus pollanicola, was studied by means of light and electron microscopy. In addition, eggs were observed in the oviduct and the adjacent region of the uterus. The early stages of the prophase of the first meiotic division occur in the ovary. The later stages take place subsequent to the entry of the sperm. The structure and behaviour of the mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum are described. It is possible that the endoplasmic reticulum, the nuclear envelope and the plasma membrane constitute a continuous membrane system. Agranular membranes were observed in oocytes and their possible relationship to other cytoplasmic organelles is discussed. A Golgi complex was not visible in electron micrographs.
20518923|New substituted 3-carbamoyl-2-iminochromens have been synthesised. The condensation of 3-carbamoyl-2-iminochromen with aromatic aldehydes yields 2-aryl-4-oxo-2H, 3H-benzopyrano-[2, 3-d] pyrimidines, which have not previously been described.
20494474|A 13,800-year pollen record and associated plant macrofossil data are described from Ballinloghig Lake on the western Dingle Peninsula. Following deglaciation, the area was colonised by open communities that included grass, Salix and Rumex. Between 13,000 and 11,000 B.P., as the climate warmed, the region supported juniper-crowberry scrub or heath. The high values of Empetrum pollen during this interval, the Woodgrange Interstade, are characteristic of sites from western Ireland and north-western Britain and reflect the maritime climate and acidic substrate. During the Nahanagan Stade, juniper became locally extinct, and the region was covered by Empetrum heath and periglacial communities. Post-glacial warming is first evidenced by an increase in Rumex pollen at c. 10,000 B.P., followed shortly afterwards by increases in Salix, Plantago maritima and Betula. Corylus is present at c. 9800 B.P., which pre-dates its appearance at other Irish sites. Between 5300 and 4200 B.P., local woodlands included Betula, Corylus, Pinus, Alnus, Quercus, Ilex and Hedera. By c. 4100 B.P. pine and alder were extirpated, and the abundance of other hardwoods was greatly reduced. This demise coincides with a rise in wetland taxa that is attributed to widespread blanket bog formation caused by human disturbance and climatic change.
20494386|Five related sheet-intrusion systems trending NE-SW have been identified in west-central Ireland. They are composed of Tertiary dolerite, the three largest systems of analcime-olivine dolerite, and may be related to an offshore igneous centre. Three-dimensional exposure has been facilitated by mid?-Tertiary regional uplift and subsequent glacial dissection. The individual systems in the quintet show sharply distinctive geochemical features. Separate sources are inferred for the magma of each system, with melting depths increasing north-westwards. The most primitive, least fractionated magma irrupted along the axial zone of the five systems. The west Irish dolerites, including Kerry and northern Mayo, form a distinctive subprovince in the Irish-British Tertiary volcanic province.
20494307|The biosynthesis of the 3-(1,1-dimethylallyl) coumarin, rutamarin (11; R=OAc), in Ruta graveolens is shown by tracer feeding experiments to involve rearrangement of a 4-prenyloxy derivative. Labelled 7-hydroxycoumarin and 4,7-dihydroxycoumarin are incorporated into rutamarin, and 4--(3,3-dimethylallyloxy)--7-hydroxycoumarin is a specific precursor.
20494272|Partially annotated bibliographies for two venerid bivalves have been prepared: Part I--Tapes decussatus (L.) and Part II--Tapes semidecussatus Reeve. Each part contains an index where individual references are grouped under subject headings. A separate synonymy and a list of common names are given for both species. The literature up to December 1975 has been covered.
20494536|Dihydroxamic acid reagents,
20494452|This paper on the Deuteromycotina is the sixth and last of the series contributing to an annotated account of fungi recorded in Ireland between 1726 and 1975. The series of papers now completed comprises the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi since that of Adams and Pethybridge.
20494310|A thermochemical investigation of the solid phase dehydration, oxidation and decomposition reactions of nickel formate dihydrate is reported. Measured enthalpies of reaction and isothermal rate data are discussed with reference to previously published microscopic and kinetic observations for the same chemical changes. Decomposition rates are particularly sensitive to the availability of water vapour in the vicinity of the reactant crystallites and this characteristic accounts for the apparent variations in kinetic behaviour to be found between different reports concerned with this pyrolysis reaction.
20494298|The annular tautomeric composition of a number of 5-substituted tetrazoles (RCNH has been established by using the 5-carbon n.m.r. shift, with N-methyltetrazoles as models for the individual tautomers. In DMSO-HO (4: 1 v/v) the following tautomeric compositions were detected (R, IH form: 2H form, per cent) NH, 93: 7; PhCH=N-NH, 76: 24; Ph, 86:14; Me, 55: 45; CI, 48: 52. Comparison of C shifts of tetrazole anions with neutral molecules suggests that electron densities do not govern tetrazole 5-C shifts.
20494514|Relative rates of ring-opening of cis- and trans-4-chloro- and 4-thiomethyl-3-bromo-N-phenyl -lactams in aqueous sodium hydroxide and methanolic sodium methoxide point to two influences on the stereochemistry of nucleophilic attack upon the carbonyl group of the -lactam ring: (a) a mild steric effect leading to faster reaction of the cis-isomer, and (b) a compensating inductive effect favouring the trans For the strongly electronegative combination of 3-chloro and 4-bromo substituents in aqueous sodium hydroxide the inductive effect dominates and a faster reaction of trans- than cis-isomer is observed (
20494885|This paper describes a series of late- and post-glacial raised beaches and fossil shorelines in North Donegal. The field evidence is presented in the form of a "Shoreline Diagram" (Fig. 4) where the late-glacial shorelines are shown to be tilted at greater angles than the post-glacial shorelines, and there is discussion of the problems of distinguishing between shorelines of late- and post-glacial age. The glacial deposits of North Donegal and adjacent parts of North Derry are also described briefly, but with particular reference to an end-moraine which has been mapped as the limit of the fresh drift, including the drumlins. This important drift limit is shown to be related closely to the highest of the late-glacial shorelines (feet O.D.), contemporaniety being indicated by the interbedding of the outwash from the moraine and red clay, of probable marine origin at Moville, and by the geomorphological evidence at other sites.
20518961|The paper deals with the bryozoan genus Penniretepora d'Orbigny 1849, for which a neotype is chosen since Phillips' original specimens have been lost. A revision of the genus is attempted and it is concluded that the most important diagnostic features are the arrangement of zooecial apertures in two longitudinal rows on the obverse of branches, and the tubular shape of the zooecia. Nine species of Penniretepora are described, from Carboniferous Limestone of D age collected at Carrick Lough, Co. Fermanagh, Northern Ireland. Five of these species are new, and one shows the largest number of zooecial apertures yet recorded between successive lateral branches.
20519045|An analysis of heats of immersion of outgassed zeolites is shown to be capable of providing information on the coordination, accessibility and induced mobility of cations in the presence of sorbate molecules. The technique is applied to an extensive range of heteroionic forms of zeolites L, A, X and Y. In many instances the heat of immersion data support conclusions regarding the location and coordination of the intrazeolitic cations reached by other workers using X-ray crystallographic, spectroscopic and e.s.r. techniques.
20494296|We report here the inelastic electron tunnelling (IET) spectrum of 2, 4, 6-trichlorophenol adsorbed on plasma-grown aluminium oxide. The band positions observed are compared with those of the infra-red and of Raman spectra of 2, 4, 6-trichlorophenol and of the infrared spectrum of sodium 2, 4, 6-trichlorophenate. From these various data it is concluded that the surface adsorbed phenol is present on the oxide of the tunnel junction as a vertically oriented 2, 4, 6-trichlorophenate anion.
20494285|A study of the abundance and occurrence of the Chaetognatha of the Galway Bay area in relation to temperature and salinity was undertaken during 1972-1973. Using a modified approach to the Temperature-Salinity (T-S) diagram whereby plankton numbers are superimposed on the T-S diagram it was possible to show relationships between temperature, salinity and the abundance and occurrence of S. elegans and S. setosa. S. elegans was more abundant in times of higher salinity and lower temperature (1972) and S. setosa was dominant at lower salinity and higher temperatures as evident after August, 1973.
20518996|Methyl -vicianoside has been synthesised by fusion of tetra-O-acetyl--L-arabinopyranose with methyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranoside in the presence of a catalytic amount of toluene-p-sulphonic acid, after deacetylation of the product mixture. Similar reaction of tetra-O-acetyl--D-xylopyranose with the triacetate yielded methyl -primeveroside (3) (52%), following carbon column chromatography of the deacetylated product mixture. The structures of these compounds were established by methylation analysis. The crystalline hexa-O-acetyl derivatives were readily obtained.
20494385|A statistical analysis was made of ten body and cranial dimensions, and fourteen non-metrical skull variants for fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus from twelve Irish islands and three locations on the mainland. The dimensions of the mice from the mainland populations were very similar, but the mice on the islands showed considerable variation, and these island races tended to be larger than the mainland mice. The size pattern in the different populations was consistent for most of the individual dimensions and, in a principal components analysis, the pattern was especially clear for the first component. The possible factors determining size difference are discussed. A dendogram was constructed with the metrical data. Rathlin and Great Blasket have distinctive races, and the Aran Islands seem to form a natural group, although this also includes Clare Island. The remaining populations are a heterogeneous assemblage; the Achill form most resembles that of the mainland. Except, possibly, for the fieldmice from the three Aran Islands, it is not intended to imply genuine phylogenetical relationships. The non-metrical data were used to construct a second dendogram but no readily explicable pattern emerged: mainland sites were classified with remote islands and the Aran Islands divided between the three main groupings. Particular non-metrical variants were not, in general, associated with island or mainland locations. The frequencies of the different variants were almost uncorrelated, and almost all the non-metrical traits were independent of the metrical ones. Previous authors have inferred phylogenetical relationships from non-metrical data: the limitations of such an approach are discussed.
20518937|Pyridine, pyridazine and phthalazine derivatives have been synthesised for evaluation of their anticancer activity against HeLa cells in vitro and against transplantable mouse tumours.
20518915|1 The paper is in two parts, the first of which describes the life cycles of some common lotic Ephemeroptera in a small stream system in western Ireland and the second the life cycles of two species in an isothermic stream in Co. Galway. 2 Growth cycles of ten species are investigated in a normal stream. The cycle for Caenis rivulorum is presented for the first time. Some of the other results differ slightly from results obtained elsewhere. Ecdyonurus venosus has a growth pattern resembling that described by Rawlinson (1939). 3 In an isothermic stream the growth rate of Ephemerella ignita is altered by a difference in temperature and its growth is a function of total day-degrees. 4 The growth rate of Baetis rhodani is similar in the two types of stream and appears to bear little relation to temperature. 5 Observations on allometry in the final instar of Baetis rhodani are made, together with observations on the size of the final instar under different conditions. It is concluded that various factors may influence final instar size in Baetis rhodani and the role of temperature requires further investigation.
20518995|O--D-Glucopyranosyl-(1  6)-O--D-glucopyranosyl-(1  4)-D-glucopyranose (1) has been obtained by fusion of penta-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranose with benzyl 2, 2,3,3,4,6-hexa-O-acetyl--maltoside (2) in the presence of a catalytic amount of toluene-p-sulphonic acid, after deacetylation and hydrogenolysis of the product mixture. The structure of the trisaccharide was established by methylation analysis. The crystalline 6-O-methyl (3) derivative of 2 was readily obtained. Deacetylation, hydrogenolysis, and subsequent acid hydrolysis of compound 3 yielded 6-O-methyl-D-glucose and D-glucose. 1-O--D-glucopyranosyl-D-mannitol and 1,6-di-O--D-glucopyranosyl-D-mannitol have been synthesised by fusion of penta-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranose with 2,3,4,5-tetra-O-benzoyl-D-mannitol in the presence of 5% of zinc chloride as catalyst, after deacylation of the reaction products.
20494256|The geological relations of a series of small sheet-like Caledonian granites in south-east Leinster are described, and it is shown that they were emplaced under static conditions after the main orogenic deformation. The extensive aureole metamorphism associated was apparently dominated by hydrothermal influences. It varies markedly in the hanging-wall and foot-wall areas of the surroundings, and was accompanied by extensive retrogressive greisening. A suite of minor intrusions -- microgranites and quartz-felsites -- is present throughout the region. Its features--both with regard to the igneous rocks and their attendant metamorphism--reflect the absence of an important influence by contained volatiles. Also, available chemical data suggest that microcline in the granitic rocks generally is a late metasomatic introduction, which is absent, or restricted, in the more fine-grained types. The mineralogy of the plagioclases is discussed in relation to possible vapour pressure fluctuations in the cooling magma.
20518987|Different rearing temperatures (10, 15 and 25 C) affected the diameter of the body muscle fibres of adult Cyclops agilis. Minimum fibre diameter, fibre cross-sectional area and minimum mitochondrial width were largest in Cyclops grown at 15 and smallest in 25 Cyclops. The fibres from 15 reared Cyclops contained proportionally more myofibrils than those reared at 25 and also the myofibrils had a larger cross sectional area. The spacing of the myofilaments was remarkably constant at all rearing temperatures which means that there is most contractile material in muscles from the 15 reared Cyclops. Sarcomere length and A-band length were constant. No difference in fibre number was found in leg muscles of 15 and 25 reared Cyclops. Muscle nuclei from 10 reared animals were significantly smaller than at other rearing temperatures. The ratio of mitochondrial cross sectional area to fibre cross sectional area was similar in muscles from 15 and 25 reared Cyclops.
20494324|County Wexford forms the south-east corner of Ireland. It has an area of 235,150 hectares with a mainly sandy coastline with the highest mean daily sunshine of over four hours and the driest weather of any Irish county. It always rates high in the number of species of those animal groups reasonably well studied. Thus of 370 species of Irish birds no less than 280 have been recorded from Co. Wexford. The present list of social Hymenoptera covers the ants, bumble bees and social wasps and the list comprises 37 of the 44 species (84%) found in Ireland. The paper lists the various species taken in Co. Wexford with such information as has recently become available on the occurrence of winged forms in the ants and on the dates of appearance of the different forms in the case of bees and wasps. The nomenclature has been brought up to date.
20518989|Nitrogen fixation by bacteria in grassland and tilled soils, in peat and in coastal sand-dune areas was studied using the acetylene reduction assay. The results indicated low numbers of acetylene reducing bacteria in all the areas examined. Soils incubated aerobically or anaerobically at soil temperatures of 10C did not exhibit acetylene reducing activity. Soils incubated anaerobically at 25C showed low acetylene reducing activity and addition of 1% w/w glucose greatly stimulated the activity. The glucose amended grassland and tilled soils showed an initial lag period of about 40 hours before linear production of ethylene. In the case of peat samples the lag phase was considerably extended and acetylene reduction was not significant until 96 hours after incubation. Waterlogging the soils also stimulated acetylene reduction though this effect was much less pronounced than the glucose effect. 25 ppm N, added to the glucose amended tilled and peat soils further stimulated the acetylene reducing activity. 50 ppm N was inhibitory in the tilled soils. Levels of 25 ppm N depressed the acetylene reducing activity by the bacteria in the glucose amended grassland soils. The added nitrogen had no effect on the duration of the lag phase. Anaerobic acetylene reducing bacteria were isolated in pure culture from the soils and sand-dune areas. Two nitrogen-fixing species were isolated from the grassland and tillage soils, a Clostridium species and a Bacillus species. Sand sheath structures have been observed on the roots of the dune grass Agropyron junceiforme and these have associated nitrogen-fixing bacteria. The anaerobic nature of the nitrogen-fixing activity in all the soils examined is very marked. Aerobic nitrogen-fixing bacteria were not present appreciably in any of the soils examined. These anaerobes are responsible for most of the acetylene reducing activity encountered, although soil bacterial counts, using the most-probable-number (MPN) method of estimation indicated very low population numbers (1,700 cells/g soil). It is calculated that only a few kg N/ha/year is fixed by the bacteria. However, the possibility is not ruled out that high rates of nitrogen fixation may occur in the field at brief intervals when conditions are particularly suitable for growth of the bacteria.
20494827|The influence of temperature on the oxygen consumption of isolated frog muscle is investigated and it is shown, in correspondence with the results obtained on mammalian preparations, that it exhibits marked increases followed by falls. The positions of these peaks on the scale of temperature is affected by increase in osmotic pressure which first cause the upper peaks to be displaced downwards. High osmotic pressures reverse this effect. It is shown on both frog muscle and on mammalian preparations that the metabolic peaks are associated with increase in oxidation of fat. It has been previously established that the peaks result from the action of the fatty acids. The appearance and properties of mitochondria resemble those of the liquid crystals which are formed by the actions of fatty acid on a mixture of oil and solutions of soap-like substances among which proteins may be included. Analogies are shown to exist between the actions of fatty acids on the formation of such liquid crystals and on the temperature-dependent metabolic peaks.
20494409|The conformation of the six-membered ring in an
20494893|At several places in the Cork Syncline, in particular close to the northern Devonian-Carboniferous contact, closed negative gravity anomalies occur. These range up to 4 mgal amplitude and cover about a square kilometre. The cause suggested is decomposition of the Carboniferous Shale and solutioning of the Carboniferous Limestone to a depth of 180 m below the surface, the cavities being filled with the insoluble residue of the limestone and shale together with other washed-in material. The age, by comparison with similar known occurrences in Ireland and England, is probably Tertiary. The surface of the ground is about 10 m M.S.L. and it is suggested that sea level was more than 150 m below the present level in Tertiary Times. The infilling may contain minerals of commercial value.
20494878|1. The water flux was measured through the skin of frogs using tritiated water. On first exposure to 25C., 8C. adapted frogs show a high permeability during the first hour. This declines later. During the first hour the outflow from the frog is markedly greater than the inflow. This is the cause of the loss in weight during this period and is accompanied by a loss of Na. 2. The weight loss is prevented when the frogs are transferred from 8 tap water to 25 Ringer solution. Immersion in Ringers solution at 8 for 5 days results in a appreciable weight loss during this period and a further slight loss on transfer to 25 Ringer. 3. The possible significance of these results is discussed.
20494499|Time-course deuteration studies and difference N.O.E. spectra are used in support of the new assignments in the H n.m.r. spectrum of the labile protons of milletenone (1). Possible conformations of milletenone (1) in CDCl are discussed and two tautomers/rotamers for (1) are given. The preparation for biological evaluation of dihydromilletenone methyl ether (2) and dihydroisomilletenone methyl ether (3) from milletenone (1) is described.
20494911|A total of 1,407 Irish bream were examined by the authors. The bream ranged in size from larvae to fish of over 10lbs (4.5kg) in weight. Prior to 1955, the distribution of the bream in Ireland was restricted to the catchments of certain rivers draining the central plain, though bream were abundant within these catchments. Irish bream spawn between mid-May and June, at water temperatures of 15C and upwards. The eggs are deposited on weeds, not only in the marginal shallows, but also at depths down to 10 feet. The ova are 1.57 to 2.0mm in diameter, and hatch in 7-10 days. The larvae on hatching are 6.0-6.5mm long. The yolk-sac is absorbed in 7-8 days, when the young bream is 8.1-8.3mm long. The first food is unicellular algae. When about 1 cm long, the O-group bream begin to feed on small crustaceans, especially Cladocera, including planktonic Cladocera as well as forms found amongst weeds and on the bottom. In subsequent seasons, the young bream feed more in the open water and eat mainly planktonic Cladocera, though also eating some chironomid larvae. As they grow larger, they eat more benthos and less plankton. The older bream feed almost entirely on benthos, including insect larvae and nymphs, oligochaetes, Gammarus, Asellus and molluscs. Molluscs are an important food of big bream. Maturity is attained by the females at 7-10 years of age, at a fork-length of about 28cm in slow-growing populations and 36-37cm in fast-growing populations. Scale examination provided data on age and growth. The first annulus on the scales is rather faintly marked and could be missed or mistaken for a fry-check. Plus-growth begins in immature fish about the end of May, but not until July in mature bream. The oldest Irish bream examined was 23 years of age. There is an apparent relationship between mean growth-rate and the bicarbonate alkalinity and size of the water area. Ligula, Caryophyllaeus laticeps and Acanthocephalids are of frequent occurrence in larger Irish bream, and the trematode Sphaerostoma bramae in juveniles.
20518960|A full description and figures are given of the little-known marine amphipod Amphitholina cuniculus (Stebbing), which is recorded for the first time from Ireland. The systematic position of the species is discussed, and a new sub-family is erected for its inclusion within the family Ampithoidae. The aberrant structure of the amphipod is accounted for by its alga-burrowing habits.
20494377|Monthly samples of the two-spotted goby, Gobiusculus flavescens (Fabricius), were taken from November 1976 to October 1977 at Carna, Co. Galway, from the intertidal and infralittoral zones and examined to determine life-span, growth, reproductive cycle and feeding of the species on the Connemara coast. Few specimens older than 12 to 17 months were caught. The disappearance of the one-year-old fish is discussed and possible explanations advanced. The breeding season extends from February to August, the fish spawning after their first winter. Fecundity varies considerably with individual fish but shows a definite correlation with time of year and length. Feeding intensity is reasonably uniform throughout the year except in November and December when consumption is reduced. Over 80% of the diet is crustacean. The importance of the various food items was estimated by several methods, and the resulting differences discussed. Comparisons are made between the biology of G. flavescens at Carna and in other areas.
20519019|Mapping censuses of territory-holding birds were carried out in May 1973 in a variety of woodlands near Killarney. Particular attention was paid to the oakwoods, where it was found that the diversity of birds decreased in those areas which were heavily grazed or were infested with rhododendrons. The almost complete absence of warblers and the abundance of goldcrests were unusual features. Muckross Yew Wood had sixteen species and a more balanced bird community than that found either in the Norway or Sitka Spruce. The Norway Spruce wood had the highest density of all the plots, with 180 territories per 10 hectares. The Sitka Spruce was very poor, with only eight species against fourteen in Norway Spruce. Three mixed woodlands and several of the islands in Loch Leane were censused. The largest studied, Brown Island, had a balanced community with 82 territories of 20 species on its 4.8 hectares.
20494360|This paper dealing with the Hymenomycetes is the second of a series contributing towards an annotated list of Irish fungi recorded between 1726 and 1975. When completed this series of papers will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi published since that of Adams and Pethybridge (1910 "Proc. R. Ir. Acad." 28 B, 120-166).
20494505|A high yield EZ photoisomerisation of 2-benzyloxy chalcone is described. Reduction of both the isomers to the related allylic alcohols, subsequent oxidation with peracid to the corresponding 1,2-threo-, 2,3-cis- and 2,3-trans-epoxy alcohols and cyclisation with Lewis acid provide a new route to two isomers of flavan-3,4-diol. Reduction of cis- and trans-2-benzyloxychalcone epoxides provides the second pair of 1,2-erythro-2,3-cis- and 2,3-trans-epoxy alcohols, and their cyclisation yields the remaining two isomers. The reactions involved are conformation-dependent and provide the first synthesis of 2,3-cis-3,4-trans-flavan-3,4-diol.
20494936|SYNTHETIC methods for 2-nitrodiphenylamines and N-cyclohexyl-2-nitroanilines are described.
20519060|Salmon numbering 762, captured at sea by drift nets, were tagged, in June and July from 1973 to 1975. Ninety-three fish (12.2%) were recaptured, the majority in coastal waters, rivers and estuaries from the River Shannon to Waterford Harbour. Recaptures were also recorded from Scotland (3) and north-west of England (2).
20494288|The kinetics and mechanisms of the reactions of the uranyl ion, [UO], with acetylacetone have been investigated in aqueous solution at an ionic strength of 1.0 mol dm Na[ClO] and a temperature of 25C. Two separable reactions are observed. The slow and rapid reactions are attributed to the reactions of [UO] and the keto and enol tautomers of acetylacetone respectively. Mechanisms are proposed to account for the kinetic data. The rate constant for reaction of [UO] with the enol form of acetylacetone is 5330  940 dm mol s, while it reacts with the keto form with a rate constant of 3.58  0.40 dm mol s. /// T innichadh danta ar chineitic agus ar mheicnochta na n-imoibrithe idir an ian uranail, [UO], agus aiceatailaiceatn i ndobharthuaslagn ag teocht 25C agus ag neart ianach 1.0 mol dm Na [ClO]. T dh imoibri inscartha le feicel. Culrtear an t-imoibri mall agus an t-imoibri mear i leith imoibri [UO] leis na foirmeacha ceatnacha agus enlacha faoi seach de aiceatailaiceatn. Cuirtear meicniochta chun cinn chun na dla cineiticeacha a mhni. S rt-thairiseach imoibrichin [UO] leis an dttaimir enlach de aiceatailaiceatn n 5330  940 cm mol s agus imoibrinn s leis an fhoirm cheatnach le rt-thairiseach 3.58  0.40 dm mol s.
20494403|An X-ray crystallographic determination of the structure of marrubiin confirms the structure and stereochemistry determined chemically. The molecule is highly strained with ring A a distorted boat, and ring B a flattened chair. The dehydration of marrubiin to an exocyclic alkene is discussed.
20518878|The plutonic, metamorphic and structural features of the eastern margin of the Leinster Granite and the associated country rocks in northern Co. Wicklow are described and discussed. It is seen that many features are a continuation southwards of those described further north by Brindley (see References). Differences include (a) the existence of a more extensive crush structure in the marginal granite, (b) exceptionally well developed local tonguing of the granite contact, (c) the presence of a strongly crushed aplite body. The granite is of two varieties--Type I, a quartz-diorite occurring marginally, and Type II, an adamellite which forms the bulk. In these occur flow and crush structures. The country rocks bear the imprints of four periods of deformation and metamorphism. The earliest was pre-granitic and regional. The second is correlated with the main plutonic intrusion phase when powerful shouldering stresses acted on the country rocks and when high-grade metamorphic minerals appeared in those bordering the granite. The last two periods were of regional folding with attendant retrogressive metamorphism.
20518991|Magilligan Foreland is a sandy, cuspate, coastal accumulation form. Evidence from various sources suggests that over the last 140 years the shoreline has not undergone any major erosional or accretionary changes, although many short term variations have occurred. During recent years the backshore has been eroded at three- to four-year intervals, at times when high tides and strong winds ( 35 knots) coincide. However, foreshore erosion is more frequent, and the intervals between such episodes are important in determining the susceptibility of the coast to storm damage. Alongshore, three types of coasts have been identified, controlled by two counteracting wave systems. The distribution of sediments reflects these alongshore variations in process.
20518895|Two chemically and mineralogically distinct intrusive rock units are recognised in this area of the Galway Granite batholith and they are described with modal and chemical details. Mineralogical and chemical studies have been made of plagioclase and alkali feldspars, and temperatures of crystallisation of the rock units are based on the results. The structure and intrusive history of the area is described, and comparison made with adjacent areas of the Galway Granite which have recently been described by other authors.
20494542|The adsorption of three basic dyes-Basic Blue 69 (Astrazone Blue), Basic Red 22 (Maxillon Red) and Basic Yellow 21 (Astrazone Yellow)--onto activated carbon has been studied. The equilibrium isotherms have been determined and the maximum saturation level adsorption capacities are 800mg g, 535mg g and 635mg g for the three dyes respectively. The isotherms were analysed using the Langmuir, Freundlich and Redlich-Peterson equations.
20494451|The moth fauna of two contrasting woodland types at Banagher, Northern Ireland, a relic woodland and a conifer plantation, was sampled by light trapping. Species richness, diversity and species composition were more comparable between sites within each woodland than between woodland types. Although fewer species were recorded in the plantation, a log normal pattern of species abundance was observed in both habitats. Only a small proportion of moth species in the plantation were dependent on the conifer trees for larval food supply. It is probable that the unplanted areas are important for the maintenance of species diversity in the conifer plantation.
20519014|Unit cell compositions, DTG curves and the sorptive properties towards carbon dioxide and ammonia in the temperature range 27315-47315 K of Linde molecular sieve zeolite type A, ion-exchanged with Li, Na, Ag, Ca, Sr, Co, Ni, Zn and Cd are discussed. The uptake sequence of CO at 33315 K and 20 cm Hg pressure was: CaA &gt; SrA &gt; NaA &gt; LiA  NiA &gt; CdA = ZnA &gt; CoA. The relatively weak interaction between the Zn, Cd, Co and NiA zeolites and CO supports recent X-ray work indicating that Zn, Co and Ni ions are recessed into the sodalite cages; a similar location of Cd to Zn is proposed. Good correlation between the experimental data and the Ruthven isotherm equation was observed for the LiA, NaA/CO systems and is indicative of some sorbate mobility, whereas ammonia interacted strongly with cations leading to poor correlation. Henry's law constants for sorbed CO are calculated.
20518974|Gravity and magnetic surveys have been carried out over a 1,500km area of mid and west Co. Kerry. The gravity interpretation favours the existence of an acidic intrusion under the southern part of the area. This intrusion together with the great accumulation of sedimentary rocks within 'the Munster Basin' are considered to be responsible for the large gravity 'low' in the south. The magnetic survey delineates a belt of positive anomalies running across the centre of the area. These have amplitudes up to 300nT. The belt is interpreted as being caused by basic igneous intrusives all at a similar depth of 16km. From a correlation between the gravity and magnetic anomalies a basic igneous intrusive is postulated to lie under an area around Slea Head on the western extremity of the Dingle peninsula.
20494563|Lead levels were measured in liver, kidney and bone from field mice Apodemus sylvaticus and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus living around the tailings pond of an abandoned lead-zinc mine, at a control location, and in field mice from the verges of a motorway. Levels were low compared with similar studies, but at the contaminated sites were significantly elevated above the control. At the tailings pond the highest figures were from the sides where most drainage occurred and were probably affected by increased soluble lead. On the motorway, lead content was influenced by traffic flow and by the extent of cover backing onto the hard shoulder, which facilitates movement away from the roadside, thus reducing exposure to lead. A negative correlation of contamination with age in Clethrionomys was noted. Interspecific and seasonal variations are discussed and are best explained in terms of diet.
20518962|The growth of Bacillus polymyxa and the effect of carbon sources on the production of extracellular amylase and protease in peat extract was examined. Growth of the organism in the extract alone was poor and no amylase was produced. Addition of a variety of carbon sources revealed that amylase was produced only in the presence of starch or a similar inducer. Protease production in the extract alone was poor. Various carbon sources were added to the peat extract and their effect on protease production determined. The proteolytic enzyme was produced with all the carbohydrates that supported growth of the microorganism; highest enzyme yields were obtained with starch or starch-like materials.
20519030|The application of the Langmuir and Volmer ideal models of sorption to zeolitic CO and NH equilibria in several ion-exchanged forms of zeolite Y is discussed. CO sorption in the energetically homogeneous LiY, NaY, KY and AgY systems is localised at the lower temperatures but tends to become mobile at temperatures above  363 K; sorption in MnY and CoY is mobile for 0 &lt;  &lt; 0.5 with localisation setting in at higher coverages. NH sorption in the near homogeneous KY and MnY systems approximates to a localised model with mutual sorbate molecule-molecule interaction. All the isotherm data may be reduced to characteristic curves using the Dubinin-Polanyi theory provided a fixed value is taken for the molar volume.
20494301|Adsorption data for CO and NH in CrL, FeL, CoL, YL, CoX, MnX, CoY and MnY have been obtained. Attempts were made to fit the experimental isotherms to theoretical equations derived by Riekert, Sips, Koble and Corrigan, Ruthven and Langmuir. Agreement with the Riekert equation was poor while the Sips Equation was capable of representing CO sorption particularly well for systems which were localised. Agreement with the Ruthven equation was best for CO in cobalt X and Y zeolites indicating sorbate mobility in these systems. Both CO and ammonia equilibria could be correlated with the Koble-Corrigan equation and this equation could also be used to provide information of the numbers of centres active in adsorption.
20518868|The first recorded Lower Ordovician shelly fauna from south-eastern Ireland has been recognised from Tagoat, near Rosslare, Co. Wexford, where it is associated with Arenig graptolites. Other graptolite faunas from the Ribband Series of Co. Wexford are discussed.
20494944|The stratigraphy and palynology of three Late-glacial deposits in County Down is described. Zones based on biostratigraphic criteria are established, to a large extent following the schemes of Smith (1961) and Watts (1963). A new zone, I-II Transition, is distinguished, however, in which the Juniperus pollen curve, in particular, is at a high level. In this zone the vegetational development has certain parallels with that in the transition between the Late-glacial and Post-glacial periods (zone III-IV Transition) though closed birch forests did not then follow the juniper phase. In zone II conditions remained open and the possibility of some climatic shift at the end of zone I-II Transition is discussed. The pollen records suggest that Populus cf. tremula and Plantago lanceolata were present in the Late-glacial period and that the relatively thermophilous species Cladium mariscus was present in zone I-II and zone II at one of the sites. For the first time in the north-east of Ireland it has been possible to obtain pollen spectra throughout zone III and into zone I; the vegetational conditions of these periods are discussed.
20494498|The spin-label 2-tetradecyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazolidine-3-oxide-1-oxyl was synthesised, and its complexes with cyclodextrin (cyclomaltoheptaose) and amylose were prepared. The solid-state e.s.r. spectra of the complexes were compared with a rigid-glass spectrum of the spin-label. This comparison showed that in the cyclodextrin complex there is rotation of the nitroxide ring about the long axis of the molecule, while in the amylose complex this rotation is restricted. This restricted motion is interpreted as inclusion of the ring in an expanded helix or as intercalation.
20494914|The geology of the area between Duffcarrick and Cahore Point, in eastern Co. Wexford, is described with particular reference to stratigraphy, sedimentology, ichnology and structure. It is suggested that the sediments range in age from Cambrian to middle Ordovician (Caradocian), and were deposited, partially by turbidity currents, in a gradually shallowing sea. They were later subjected to polyphase deformation and complex faulting. Evidence from this and other parts of Co. Wexford is used to demonstrate the occurrence of Lower Palaeozoic and subsequent fault block movements which are held responsible for the genesis and repeated rejuvenation of the 'Irish Sea Landmass'.
20518924|The Silurian sequence at Balbriggan is shown to contain the most complete suite yet known of Irish Silurian graptolite zones. Forty-eight graptolite species have been identified in the Llandovery and Wenlock rocks enabling the establishment of the following zones: acuminatus, triangulatus, magnus, sedgwickii, turriculatus, centrifugus, murchisoni, riccartonensis, linnarssoni and lundgreni. It is suggested that the Llandovery and Wenlock graptolitic succession is probably complete, and that the "absence" of some zones is due to relatively small scale faulting on the section, and in part to collection failure. The Balbriggan and Skerries Formations are erected to include, respectively, the finer grained graptolitic sequence and the coarser greywacke sequence, both formations being recognisable also in the problematical inland region of the inlier, away from the type sections. The lower boundary with the Ordovician is complicated by faulting, but the presence of the Ashgill anceps Zone is established in Ireland for the first time on direct evidence. An appraisal is attempted of the Silurian inland exposures in the Balbriggan massif, and the turbidites of the Skerries coast section are ascribed to the Silurian. Comparison is made of the Balbriggan Silurian with other areas, and in particular with the Lake District (Northern England) succession.
20494890|In this paper the results of a survey of the fleas parasitizing the birds of the family Hirundinidae in eight vice-counties in the South of Ireland are given. Seven species of flea were found to occur in the nests of martins and three of these were new to Ireland. Of the three species new to Ireland Ceratophyllus rusticus is a well known species elsewhere but Frontopsylla laeta and Callopsylla waterstoni are very rare and in these islands have been reported only from Scotland. Five species were found commonly infesting the nests of house-martins and one species was regularly encountered in nests of sand martins. Although the common bird flea, Ceratophyllus gallinae gallinae was collected from the nests of both species of martins it occurred only in significant numbers in the burrows of sand-martins. No fleas were found in the nests of swallows. The results obtained by incubating a number of nests are discussed. The literature concerning the host and geographical distribution of martin and swallow fleas is reviewed and the desirability of further information from Ireland is indicated.
20494494|Methylation of 2-hydroxy-6-methoxy-2-(-methoxy-benzyl)benzo[b]furan-3(2H)-one, the methanolysis product of 6-methoxyaurone epoxide, afforded a mixture from which seven products were isolated and characterised. These include the methyl derivatives of the three ring-chain tautomers of the substrate and two methyl derivatives of a glycolic acid resulting from a benzilic acid rearrangement of the open-chain diketone tautomer The parent glycolic acid was obtained by the reaction of alkali on the same substrate and on its acetyl derivative. The methanolysis products of the unsubstituted aurone epoxide and of 4,6-dimethoxy aurone epoxide were also methylated.
20494361|A total of 162 species of myxomycetes is listed for Ireland, of which twenty-five are first published records. Comatricha rigidireta and Macbrideola decapillata are first records for the British Isles and the latter is new to Europe. Many of the additions developed in moist chamber culture of bark from living trees. Distribution maps, based on the 10 km squares of the Irish Grid, are provided for the commoner species, together with a map showing all recorded squares. Further collecting is needed especially in Donegal, Londonderry, Armagh, Fermanagh and Limerick -- areas which are under-recorded. Some species which are common in Great Britain are rare or absent in Ireland, e.g. Diachea leucopodia, Didymium clavus, D. difforme and Physarum bivalve. A full bibliography to Irish myxomycetes is provided.
20519062|The glacial deposits in south Wexford are derived principally from two sources (1) ice of inland origin which deposited a stony, loam till and some fluvioglacial gravels (Bannow Formation), (2) ice from the Irish Sea which laid down shelly, calcareous clays, clay loams and extensive deposits of fluvioglacial sands and gravels (Blackwater Formation). Some terrace gravels are found beside the Slaney river (Slaney Formation). The two main formations, i.e., Bannow and Blackwater, were distinguished on the basis of stoniness, texture, carbonate content and lithology. The boundary between both formations runs from west of Enniscorthy south to Taghmon and Duncormick.
20518979|The synthesis of benzyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranoside is described. A small amount of benzyl 2,3,6-tri-O-acetyl--D-galactopyranoside was isolated during the preparation of the corresponding, crude 2,3,4-tri-O-acetylgalactoside. When a mixture of equal amounts of benzyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranoside and penta-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranose was fused with a catalytic amount of toluene-p-sulphonic acid, crystalline benzyl -gentiobioside was isolated after deacetylation of the product mixture, and fully characterised. 6-O--D-galactopyranosyl-D-galactopyranose was obtained by a similar condensation between penta-O-acetyl--D-galactopyranose and the crude 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-galactoside, after deacetylation and catalytic hydrogenation of the reaction mixture.
20494342|Larvae of three species of Tipulidae were isolated from peat at Glenamoy, Co. Mayo. The immature stages of Erioptera trivialis, Molophilus occultus and Tricyphona immaculata are described and illustrated. E. trivialis and T. immaculata were collected from peat which had been drained and fertilised and was covered with a grass sward; M. occultus came from undrained bog.
20518912|Tetanic contraction significantly lowered the concentration of high-energy phosphates in both the red and white fibre areas of normal and ischaemic m. semitendinosus of the pig. Ischaemia alone did not significantly influence the resting level of these substances in the white fibres but increased the rate at which ATP was hydrolysed post-mortem; it lowered the resting levels of ATP in the red fibres. The results demonstrated that contraction depleted the high-energy phosphates of the muscle to a greater extent than did ischaemia.
20494892|A SUITE of minor intrusions cutting the aureole rocks of the granodioritic Ardara pluton in Co. Donegal is petrogenetically connected with the pluton. The suite is characterised by abundant heterogeneous amphibole-rich rocks and the widespread occurrence of associated brecciated metasediments.
20494887|The Old Red Sandstone of the Slieve Mish area, 1850 to 5400 ft. in thickness, has been subdivided into five lithostratigraphic units, to which local names have been given. The lowest unit, the Inch Conglomerates, a piedmont deposit largely of metamorphic provenance, is shown to be banked against an old land surface rising northwards, probably retreating by pediplanation. The higher beds are mainly fluvial or lake-deltaic sandstones, with intercalated quartz-jasper conglomerates, one of which, the Castle Hill Conglomerate, reaches a maximum thickness of 400 ft. Green beds, indicative of a transition to the marine conditions of Lower Carboniferous times, appear at the top of the Old Red Sandstone succession. Structurally the area is simple, comprising a slightly asymmetrical east-west anticline of Armorican age, with an easterly pitch of about 4 degrees. Faulting is of minor importance.
20494541|The life history of the thickback sole Microchirus variegatus (Donovan, 1808) was investigated from samples collected on board commercial fishing vessels between March 1978 and September 1979. A total of 512 specimens were taken from fish trawls, shot on sandy bottoms, off the north shore of Galway Bay. The largest fish recorded measured 15.5cm, while the oldest specimen was seventeen years old. In Galway Bay, the rate of growth of the thickback sole was relatively fast for the first seven to eight years of life, after which it gradually slowed down, with very little growth occurring after the tenth or eleventh year. Females appeared to grow faster and live longer than males. Females matured and spawned when they were three years old, having attained at least 9.0cm in length. Males, however, did not spawn until they reached four years of age. The spawning period extended from May to August. The thickback sole is a carnivore, feeding mainly on errant polychaetes and amphipods. Results from Galway Bay are compared with what is known about M. vanegatus from other areas.
20494297|The addition of cerium and other rare earth elements to improve the metallurgical properties of steel is becoming common practice. This has resulted in an increased demand for determinations of cerium for which there is a lack of established methods. A comparatively simple procedure has been developed based on the relatively intense fluorescence of cerium (III) aquo-ion. The interferences, which arise from iron(III), chromium(VI), and cerium(IV) are removed by reduction with hydroxylamine before fluorimetric assay (
20494392|The entomological collection of "Alexander Henry Haliday" (1806-1870) housed in the National Museum of Ireland is a most important nineteenth-century insect collection containing many types of Diptera, Hymenoptera and Thysanoptera and some types of insects in other orders. This paper outlines what is known of the history of the collection, describes its present form and makes recommendations for type designations.
20494465|Two hundred and seventy-nine stations off Carnsore Point (south-east Ireland) were qualitatively sampled for their macrobenthic fauna in 1997-8. Much of the area surveyed experiences strong tidal currents and weather-induced turbulence; bottom sediments are correspondingly low in their 'fines' and organic carbon contents. Four hundred and seventy-nine species were identified and these are assigned to different communities on the basis of hierarchical classification of species binary data. The communities are broadly considered in terms of the associated physical environment and are compared to some near-equivalents in other temperate areas.
20494559|Analyses of Foraminifera, Ostracoda and diatoms from organic silty clays discovered beneath 17m of gravel and Holocene estuarine sediments in Cork Harbour indicate that the sediments were deposited in deepening estuary to intertidal conditions during a temperate (interglacial) stage of the Pleistocene. The study of pollen from these interglacial deposits suggests that they can be correlated with the mesocratic phase of the Gortian temperate stage. Relative sea-level appears to have risen rapidly in the Cork area immediately prior to the onset of the telocratic phase of the Gortian with marine inundation of former freshwater riverine environments. This later phase of the Gortian is not present at the Cork Harbour site, probably having been eroded prior to the deposition of the overlying high-energy pebble gravels. Comparison of the ratios of the amino-acids D-alloisoleucine and L-isoleucine from the foram Ammonia batavus sampled from the interglacial sediments with ratios from the same species from interglacial sites in northern continental Europe suggests that correlation with the last interglacial is unlikely. This lends support to the traditional view adduced from floristic data that the Gortian should be correlated with the Hoxnian, and conflicts with the suggestion that the Gortian represents the last interglacial. Priority should now be given to the acquisition of a series of complete cores through this important sequence.
20518869|Combs on the tarsi and tibiae of odonate larvae and which largely consist of divided setae of very diversified structure are discussed. Descriptive terms for the various components of this armature and a classification by structural categories of the various types of setae of which the combs are composed are introductorily adopted. Constant characters in the spatial composition of the combs are described and the uses of the combs discussed. The concluding part of the work deals in general terms with differences in the armature which may be characteristic of taxonomic groups in the Odonata.
20494279|The larvae of four species of euphausiid were found during a two-year survey of Galway Bay: Meganyctiphanes norvegica, Nyctiphanes couchi, Thysanoessa inermis and Thysanoessa raschi. The first three were seasonally common and the latter rare. A postulated inshore migration of breeding adults of Meganyctiphanes and T. inermis resulted in a larval season from February to May and from late March to May respectively. The larval season of Nyctiphanes extended from May/June to November, with peak concentrations in the autumn months. A spawning centre outside the bay is suggested for Nyctiphanes, with a possible inshore movement of the adults in the autumn. Varying concentrations of the larvae within the August-October period were noted, high concentrations being associated with high salinity water as indicated by temperature-salinity data, with the presence of oceanic chaetognaths (Sagitta tasmanica and Krohnitta subtilis), and with increased concentrations of life-history stages of other species of Sagitta.
20519026|The stratigraphy of Upper Devonian and Lower Carboniferous sedimentary rocks of the Clonakilty Bay area of south County Cork is described. The rocks belong to the "Old Red Sandstone" and marine clastic successions. Continuity of lithostratigraphical units between the Old Head of Kinsale to the east and Toe Head to the west is demonstrated. A change from relatively thin marine clastic successions in the west to much thicker marine clastic successions in the east is shown to occur across Clonakilty Bay. The simple regional structure is complicated by minor folding, eight important strike faults and zones of very steep minor fold plunges. A possible basement control of thickness variation and of tectonic style is suggested.
20494455|Killary Harbour, a fjord-like inlet on the west coast of Ireland, was surveyed by an Irish-French multidisciplinary group with respect to its topography, sedimentology, water structure and circulation, water chemistry, phytoplankton, zooplankton, microbiology, and macrobenthic fauna and flora. The floor of this sheltered, shallow bay (average depth c. 20m) has few rocky outcrops; the main sediment type is a soft mud with an organic content as high as 11.6%. Local weather conditions markedly influence the water structure, which may be semi-stratified or partially mixed. Circulation can be represented as a double layer with a net outflow at the surface. Little deoxygenation was found in the water column and the concentrations of nutrient elements were low. Diatoms dominated the planktonic flora, with the species recorded being neritic in origin. Much of the zooplankton also originated inshore. Heterotrophic and thiosulphate oxidising bacteria were similarly distributed in sediment cores. Transectal sampling of sublittoral alg showed a marked reduction in diversity towards the head of the harbour. The sessile epifauna was relatively poor and seems to represent a reduced version of the temperate Raspailia-Stelligera association. Much of the infauna is assignable to the boreo-Mediterranean Amphiura community. Most aspects of the survey were carried out in May 1974, before the start of an extensive mussel (Mytilus edulis (L.)) cultivation programme in the area.
20494845|In view of the suggestion that there has been a possible increase in Bifurcaria in Ireland during the recent period of climate amelioration results of observations on the occurrence of the species on the west coast of Ireland are given. Some early records for the species in this country are discussed. The habitat in Ireland and elsewhere is described. Problems of reproduction, perennation and the maintainance of existing populations are considered. It is shown that the species is fertile over a longer period of the year than is suggested by accounts in the literature. Viable sexual products are abundant and germination takes place readily in culture. Results of preliminary experiments on the effect of cold on the release of gametes and on germination are given. Possible methods of dispersal are discussed and suggestions are made for further experimental work.
20494431|The synonomy of the dendrochirote holothurian Aslia lefevrei (Barrois 1882) is reviewed and its diagnostic morphology considered in regard to specimens on the west coast of Ireland. With a recorded distribution from the Mediterranean to the Orkneys, this species typically occupies cryptic habitats, at depths ranging from E.L.W.S. to twenty metres, and has a penchant for being densely aggregated.
20518898|A survey of the meiobenthic Harpacticoida (Copepoda) of the littoral and sublittoral zones of an area of coast extending from Termonfeckin, Co. Louth, to Shanganagh, Co. Dublin, was carried out. Some harpacticoids collected on a visit to west Cork are also included. Fifteen stations, twelve littoral and three sublittoral, are described and figured. A total of sixty species is recorded and these include sixteen new to the Irish fauna list and six and three species respectively to the east and south-west coasts. Previous Irish records are noted and ecological data by Irish and other workers are given for the listed species. Monthly littoral collections were made at Seapoint, Co. Dublin, where vertical distribution and seasonal vertical migration of certain species were studied. It has been ascertained that most of the harpacticoids live close to the surface, i.e. within the 0-38mm layer. One species Canuella perplexa showed evidence of a seasonal migration to the deeper layers i.e. 39-76mm. A brief comparison is made with results of surveys carried out by Wells on the harpacticoids of Strangford Lough, the Isles of Scilly and some Scottish lochs.
20494420|The marine alg of all subtidal cliffs (vertical and near-vertical slopes) in Lough Hyne were surveyed in July 1981 by transects of representative sections of the cliffs. A brief description and depth profile are given for each of these transects, and the main plant communities are described for these and two other sites. An annotated species list includes all alg identified during this study, a total of 130 species (87 Rhodophyta; 10 Chlorophyta; 33 Phaeophyta). The Hymenoclonium serpens (Crouan frat.) Batt. phase of Bonnemaisonia asparagoides (Woodw.) C. Ag., Pterosi-phonia pennata (C. Ag.) Falkenb., Ulvella lens Crouan frat., Liebmannia leveillei J. Ag., and Myriocladia lovenii J. Ag. are reported for the first time from Ireland; the report of Cruoriella armorica Crouan frat. is the first for the British Isles.
20494507|Each of the four principal steps in the synthesis of molecular combinations of the anti-tumour agents 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and N-alkyl-N-chloroethyl-N-nitrosourea from -phthalimidoalkyl sulphoxides can give rise to a pair of isomeric products. Methods of optimising the yields of the desired isomers are reviewed, with special emphasis on the third step in which N-(-aminoalkyl)uracils are obtained by dephthaloylation. The interconversion of these monocyclic amines and their bicyclic isomers has been studied and the stability of 5-FU derivatives compared with their 5-iodouracil analogues. Although uric acid was discovered in 1776, some analogues of its 4,5-dihydro derivative (pyrimido[1,2,3-cd]purines formed by elimination of fluoride) are described here for the first time.
20494439|The historic and scientific literature on the pollan is reviewed. Emphasis is placed on the recent research into the taxonomic position of the pollan and its ecology in Lough Neagh.
20494273|The faunas from some old localities of the Geological Survey of Ireland in County Wicklow (near Rathdrum) and County Wexford (near Enniscorthy) are revised and their stratigraphical position in the Caradoc reassessed. The stratigraphy of the Ordovician in Counties Meath and Louth is outlined. Following from these stratigraphic revisions the correlation of the Ordovician in eastern Ireland is reviewed with particular reference to the age of the main episodes of volcanicity.
20494351|This is the first detailed account of the biology of Montagu's Blenny, Coryphoblennius galerita L., in Irish waters. A total of 416 specimens was collected at approximately monthly intervals during the years 1972 to 1974 from the exposed rocky shores of Mweenish Island and Mace Head, Connemara, Co. Galway. Females were more frequently recorded than males (ratio 1.27: 1) and though usually slightly smaller than males at any given age, the difference in growth rate was not statistically significant. The oldest and largest specimen recorded was six years and 8.1 cm total length. Spawning takes place from April to August. Fish may become ripe during the second year of life. Young fish feed predominantly on copepods on their return from the plankton to the shore, but the older fish have a more varied diet which includes algae, barnacle cirri, ostracods, mites, amphipods, insect larvae and echinoids.
20494532|A non-linear least-squares method is described for analysing kinetic data to obtain the rate constant of a second-order reaction together with estimates of the error when the initial and final readings are unknown. The method is superior to the Espenson method in that readings do not have to be taken at constant time intervals.
20519022|Four new occurrences of explosion breccia are described from the Leinster Massif. In a general review of these phenomena in the area, it is shown that they range widely in connection with the various forms of Caledonian igneous activity--the early dolerite swarms, the lamprophyre intrusions, the main Leinster granite pluton and the minor granite intrusions. They were dominated by aqueous fluids under rather widely varying conditions.
20518931|In the course of a two-year investigation (using SCUBA equipment), the author recorded sixty-six species of sponges for parts of the Irish west coast. Twelve of these are additions to the Irish fauna. Seven associations of epifaunal organisms are recognised and described. These are as follows: the Laminaria saccharina Asscn.; the Laminaria hyperborea Asscns., I and II; the Axinella dissimilis Asscn.; the Lithothamnium Asscn.; the Musculus discors Asscn. and the Raspailia-Stelligera Asscn. Some ecological factors which may influence sponge distribution are briefly discussed.
20494267|The morphological and chemical properties of Brown Podzolic soils derived from non-calcareous O.R.S. glacial deposits have been studied in detail. These investigations show that the remnants of A2 horizons present in those soils have the properties of well developed Podzol eluvial horizons while the B horizons have the properties of strongly developed spodic horizons. The soils have probably developed under a complex of (a) dense oakwood (Quercus) canopy with a second storey of Ilex and a poor ground vegetation (Derrycunihy Type 1) and (b) a more open oakwood canopy with a second storey of Ilex and a ground vegetation rich in Vaccinium, Calluna or Erica (Derrycunihy Type 2). Deforestation and subsequent deep cultivation by man, mixed the upper horizons and obliterated the A2 horizon in all but the deepest tongues. These Brown Podzolic soils (Haplorthods) belong morphologically, chemically and genetically within the Podzol Great Soil Group.
20518857|1. Consideration is given to the anatomical features relevant to the operation of adrenalectomy in the sheep. 2. The surgical technique evolved while adrenalectomizing sixteen adult female sheep is described in detail. 3. The difficulties encountered, resolving into limitations of exposure, presence of depot fat and problems deriving from the site and vascularity of the adrenal glands are discussed.
20494930|The microfungi isolated from various peat types occurring in an Irish raised bog are listed together with notes on their taxonomy, physiology and ecological distribution. Reference is made to species which invade cut-away peat both before and after cultivation.
20494319|The rate of adsorption of Astrazone Blue (basic) dye and Telon Blue (acid) dye is mainly controlled by intraparticle diffusion, although a small resistance due to a boundary layer is experienced. The activation energies for adsorption of Astrazone Blue and Telon Blue on peat are 16.5 kJ mol and 9.5 kJ mol respectively. The apparent diffusivities vary from 8.2  10 cms at 18C to 40.0  10 cms at 80C for Astrazone Blue on peat and from 5.9  10 cms at 18C to 21.0  10 cms at 80C for Telon Blue.
20494926|The soluble eyelens proteins of fourteen species and two hybrid forms of freshwater fishes found in Ireland have been studied by electrophoresis in agar gel. The findings of previous workers studying other fishes have been confirmed and extended. Ontogenetic changes in the composition of eyelens protein extracts of fishes are reported for the first time. These changes were found in both brown and rainbow trout.
20494546|A peatland survey of Northern Ireland was completed in 1988 utilising aerial photographs mainly from the preceding decade. At a time of renewed use of peatlands and increased interest in their conservation, constant updating of these maps is required. High-resolution satellite data provide a possible means of achieving this; the paper thus investigates the accuracy with which outer limits of peatland can be mapped from satellite data as compared with aerial photographs, their potential for monitoring changes such as reclamation, forestry and machine peat-cutting, and to what extent internal types of peatland may be identified.
20494418|The biology of the relatively large boreal marine cottid Taurulus bubalis (Euphrasen, 1786) was investigated from March 1978 to February 1980 in the Galway Bay area. Samples were taken from two shores, one at Carna, Co. Galway, and the other at Finavarra, Co. Clare. Fish caught sublittorally were examined separately. Short notes are given on eighteen specimens recorded at Carnsore, Co. Wexford, and four specimens recorded from Kinsale, Co. Cork. Females are more abundant, live longer, grow faster and attain a greater length than males. Most of the growth takes place in the first two years of life. The spawning season extends from December to March, with a maximum in February. Both sexes spawn for the first time in their second year of life. Fecundity is length-dependent and varies between 724 and 7938. While crustaceans constitute the main bulk of the diet, polychaetes, fish and molluscs are also eaten.
20494548|Three sediment sections were analysed for pollen, charcoal and mineral magnetics in order to trace the history of vegetation and human impact in the Lough Adoon Valley on the Dingle Peninsula, Co. Kerry. Time series techniques were used to examine replacement and interaction processes amongst major pollen taxa. The valley had an open Betula/Salix woodland or shrubland with Rumex in the early Holocene. Corylus invaded around 9500 B.P., one of the earliest records for it in Ireland, and later Quercus, Pinus and Ulmus expanded into the region. Forest dominated until 4400 B.P. when clearance, soon after the first pollen evidence of clearing at 5320 B.P., led to the development of heathland, bog and pasture. There was a localised re-invasion of secondary forest in Iron Age times. The arrival of Alnus appears to be an important factor in the decline of Corylus, and human occupation changed the patterns of species interactions. Fire was at first a component of the forest and grassland areas but after human intervention was largely restricted to heath and grassland. The records suggest that the patterns of fire use changed from Bronze Age to Iron Age times.
20494925|A general account of the Oughterard Granite is accompanied by the first detailed map of the granite and of the geology of eastern Connemara. The granite clearly cross-cuts the F Connemara antiform and the Connemara Migmatites, including the potash-feldspar gneisses, and has previously been dated at 510  35 m.y. It is remarkable for being considerably sheared, and for appearing in numerous unconnected pods and veins and in two connected, roughly circular, main bodies: the Tullaghboy mass in the west, now much displaced by faulting, and the Oughterard mass in the east. The Tullaghboy mass is highly irregular, often xenolithic, contaminated, and generally passes into a swarm of small granite sills, dykes and pods. The granite is throughout composed of quartz, albite or oligoclase, microcline or orthoclase, with less than 5% albite in solid solution, and scraps of muscovite and most usually completely chloritised biotite. Sixty-six samples have each been analysed for 30 elements. The major elements indicate general homogeneity. The granite is characterised by a high K/Rb ratio of 320, extremely high Ba and Sr, averaging 2,000 ppm and 600 ppm and very low La, Ce and Y. This rare earth deficiency, the complete absence of hornfelsing, the extreme mobility of the granite magma and possibly the poorness of the differentiation trends are consistent with a magma which was unusually rich in water.
20494513|Irradiation of 3,4,5,6-tetrachlorophthalonitrile in dichloromethane in the presence of naphthalene leads to formation of both the substitution product 3,5,6-trichloro-4-(1-naphthyl)-1,2-dicyanobenzene and the photoreduction product 3,4,6-trichlorophthalonitrile.
20518934|Threlkeld's account of the Irish flora is shown to be derived from four principal sources. His own observations of plants in the neighbourhood of Dublin, together with those of correspondents in various parts of the country, were used to supplement an earlier manuscript list of species found in Ireland. Additional material was provided by unacknowledged borrowing from several of the writings of John Ray.
20494375|A programme of direct sampling and continuous seismic profiling has been used to construct the stratigraphical sequence for the North Celtic Sea. Following the accumulation of considerable thicknesses of Permo-Triassic, Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous sediments in a narrow graben controlled by east-north-east/west-south-west trending boundary faults, thick Upper Cretaceous deposition occurred within a somewhat constricted basin occupying the central part of the North Celtic Sea. More positive areas to the north and west received condensed Upper Cretaceous sequences. Periodic reactivation of the early Mesozoic basin boundary faults played an important role in the accommodation of thick Chalk in the area of the Kinsale Head Gas Field. Only the Upper Campanian transgressions are considered to have extended pelagic chalk deposition any distance northwards on to the Irish Block. End Cretaceous/early Tertiary regression, tectonic inversion and erosion were succeeded by the deposition of a blanket of sediments believed to be composed predominantly of Oligo-Miocene non-marine lithologies. The Nymphe Bank Basin, which is a remnant of this blanket, has been preserved by syn-depositional reactivation of the Msozoic basin boundary faults, tectonic adjustment along the Bala Fault Line and the uplift of the area west of Cork by the development of a series of north-west/south-east trending faults. Marine Neogene sediments make up part of a Tertiary/Quaternary wedge seen south of Mizen Head.
20518882|Some 30,000 feet of Upper Palaeozoic sediment has been recognised in West Cork. The Upper Old Red Sandstone accounts for 22,000 feet, and is divided into two formations, a lower Caha Mountain Formation (18,000+ feet) and an upper, West Cork Sandstone Formation (4,200 feet). The basal member of the Caha Mountain Formation (Slaheny Member; 3,000 feet) and the West Cork Sandstone Formation characteristically show fining-upwards cycles and a fluviatile origin is postulated; these are separated by some 15,000 feet of beds of problematic origin. To the south a marine incursion (the Sherkin Member) is recorded within the West Cork Sandstone Formation. The Coomhola Formation which forms the lowest unit of the Carboniferous Slate includes the Carboniferous-Devonian boundary and reaches a maximum thickness of 3,500 feet. These beds mark the onset of a major marine transgression, and the remaining members of the Carboniferous Slate show progressive deepening of the trough of sedimentation. The youngest beds recorded are of lower Namurian (
20494260|Pig semitendinosus muscle consists of visually-distinct red and white fibre areas which run parallel to each other for the length of the muscle and have the same origin and insertion. The red fibres contained four times more myoglobin and had a four times higher succinic dehydrogenase activity than the white. The white fibres had higher resting levels of creatine phosphate and ATP, formed more lactate post-mortem and had a lower final pH than the red. Stimulation of the motor nerve to the muscle in vivo depleted the high-energy phosphates to a greater extent and elicited a higher rate of anaerobic glycolysis in the white fibres than in the red. The results indicated that white fibres depend more than red on anaerobic mechanisms for their supply of energy.
20494829|Gibberellic acid does not bring about flowering in the short-day dioecious species Cannabis sativa (hemp) under non-inductive photoperiodic conditions. The two sexes do, however, respond to gibberellic acid treatment in long days by a substantial increase in stem growth, and leaf shape changes ensue similar to those which follow short-day induction. When gibberellic acid is supplied during short-day induction, flowering is somewhat delayed, and in genetically male plants the total numbers of flowers produced may be reduced. Treatment after photoperiodic induction may, however, increase total flower production in both sexes. In stem extension growth, female plants respond more to gibberellic acid under short-day conditions than males, and as a consequence, the secondary sexual difference in stature which normally results from the greater growth of male plants during entry into a flowering period is abolished or reversed. These results can be interpreted on the assumption that stem extension growth in hemp is governed by native gibberellin-like substances, and that, while the sexes show no difference in gibberellin metabolism under long days, a difference develops during the early phase of induction in short days such that gibberellin production in the male plants rises while that of the females falls. It remains to be shown whether or not gibberellins are concerned in primary sex differentiation in hemp.
20494286|Precipitation and streamflow have been continuously monitored for four years in a 15km instrumented catchment. Data from these measurements, together with appropriate Meteorological Office calculations of potential evapo-transpiration, enable water-balances to be calculated. The study period has seen both a channel clearance and a peatland drainage scheme within the basin. Studies of the water-balances and of duration flows show how the hydrological characteristics of the basin have responded to these changes. It is concluded that both schemes had marked but temporary effects on streamflow. Total streamflow increased in the first two years of study, the years of channel clearance and peatland drainage, and low flows were increased in magnitude. The last two years of record show marked changes from the first two years, the changes being interpreted as recovery from the effects of the schemes and a return to normality.
20518921|200 structures, believed to be fossil pingos, are recorded in an area of 5.75 km. The rim diameter ranged from 30 to 75m. Four fossil pingos are described in detail. Pollen evidence suggests that the pingos formed at the end of the last cold stage, in Zone III.
20494952|A varied sedimentary sequence was regionally metamorphosed to sillimanite grade and then intruded by basic magma which caused severe hornfelsing. The hornfelses vary from sillimanite-biotite-cordierite-garnet or magnetite schists which grade into the regionally metamorphosed rocks, through cordierite-rich hornfelses with sillimanite and andalusite, to cordierite-rich hornfelses without AlSiO but with almandine garnet, to emery-rock xenoliths containing spinel and surrounded by plagioclase-rich "gabbro". The intrusive rocks varied from dunites and pyroxenites through calcic bytownite gabbros to rare calcic bytownite anorthosites. Contamination by dissolved pelitic material probably increased the plagioclase and orthopyroxene contents. Continuing metamorphism extensively amphibolised the gabbros so that relict pyroxene and olivine are rare. Among the metamorphosed contaminated rocks is one with the association cordierite-anthophyllite-cummingtonite-calcic bytownite. Later quartzo-feldspathisation and migmatisation of the hornfelses and metagabbros was accompanied by isoclinal folding, sliding, shearing and fragmentation of these rocks and agmatisation of the metagabbros. At one horizon zoned biotite-anthophyllite-tremolite-talc nodules were formed due to inclusion of ultramafic fragments in gneiss. The metagabbros were migmatised into a heterogeneous quartz-diorite gneiss containing porphyroblastic andesine-labradorite. The intrusive emplacement of a layer of quartz-labradorite hornblende gneiss also occured and sporadic pink potash-felspar-bearing granite gneiss. Four major isoclinal folds are deciphered. The Roundstone Granite and dykes are post-tectonic. Chemical analyses of seven magnetites and one cordierite are presented.
20518863|In the course of a programme of pyrazole synthesis, bis-N-alkylthiosemicarbazones of 1,3-dioxo-compounds were obtained as byproducts. These possessed significant anticancer activity. Consequently a variety of N-substituted thiosemicarbazides has been condensed with diketones, dialdehydes and keto-aldehydes. Related bis-thiosemicarbazides were also prepared by reacting hydrazides with isothiocyanates. A number of these products displayed considerable activity. N-Methyl-substituted thiosemicarbazides and thiosemicarbazones proved the most effective. The activity and toxicity of the latter compounds were antagonised by pyridoxine.
20518889|A graptolite fauna of 'Pacific' type, recently collected from close to the exposed base of the Rosroe Grits in north-west Co. Galway, is indicative of the middle part of the Llanvirn Series (uppermost part of the Zone of Didymograptus bifidus or lowermost part of the Zone of Didymograptus murchisoni) of the standard British classification of the Ordovician System. The Rosroe Grits are shown to be entirely younger than the Toormakeady, Shangort, and Mount Partry Beds, outcropping to the west of Lough Mask, Co. Mayo, which are themselves firmly dated by graptolites (Dewey, Rickards and Skevington 1970). Decisions cannot yet be taken on the age of the Rosroe Grits relative to the Leenane Grits (Kilroe 1907, Carruthers and Muff 1909) south of Killary Harbour, the Sheeffry Grits (Stanton 1960) of south-west Murrisk, and the Murrisk Series (Dewey 1963) of central Murrisk; the several possibilities are discussed in the light of the evidence currently available.
20518956|The species of the genus Vaucheria can only be identified with certainty by reference to the sexual reproductive structures. A key to the various marine species found in Ireland is presented. In addition, brief ecological notes are given and the locations for the various species are quoted on a county basis.
20494248|Previous studies indicated that Candida utilis grows on peat extract. It was now attempted to increase the yield of C. utilis by studying the various environmental factors that affected the growth of this yeast. These included temperature, pH, osmotic concentration and acclimation. Methods of cultivation and of assessing growth were also studied. The effect of the addition of various substances was also examined and it was found that phosphate and carbohydrate were limiting factors. Peat extract with phosphate added was found to be capable of supporting biomass yields comparable with known microbiological media.
20518896|A steep linear gravity gradient, trending north-east, occurs along the north-west coast of Lough Foyle. This gradient is directly related to the presence of a belt of low-density red beds originally mapped as Lower Carboniferous (Upper Calciferous Series). These rocks are fault-bounded from the Dalradian strata which make up most of Inishowen. Geophysically, a density differential of 0.35 g/cm between the Dalradian and the more recent beds confirms a measured thickness of 1100m for the post-Dalradian strata. In contrast, the available information indicates that the Lower Carboniferous succession in the north of Ireland is much thinner than this, having an observed development of approximately 300 to 400m. There is no evidence to suggest that it in any way approaches the thickness required to explain the observed gravity anomaly. Further to the north-east a gravity gradient exists near Magilligan Point on the opposite side of the Lough. A borehole here has proved the existence of strata the bulk of which is Trias and Carboniferous with the younger rocks forming the dominant component. Similarity of the gravity features in the two areas suggests that the post-Dalradian succession under discussion can be expected to resemble that observed in the borehole. Lithologically the strata more closely resemble the borehole Trias than the Carboniferous and the bulk or possibly all the sequence may, therefore, be of Triassic age. A separate linear gravity gradient of similar trend occurs on the southern shore of the Lough near Eglinton. A comparable geological situation probably exists here with Triassic strata fault-bounded against the Dalradian.
20494860|Coast to coast mapping of part of the Beara Peninsula, west Co. Cork, has revealed a system of folds in Upper Old Red Sandstone and Carboniferous Slate. The lithologies are described and a two-fold division of the latter into Coomhola Beds and Black Slate is made. Four tectonic zones are recognised, each characterised by the size, shape and attitude of the folds. The overall picture is of an asymmetric diapiric fold. The stages of development and the mechanics of folding are discussed.
20494287|The succession at Hook Head records the advance of a transgression in the Lower Carboniferous. Rocks of 'Old Red Sandstone' facies, interpreted as fluviatile coastal plain deposits, are succeeded by thin? intertidal and shallow subtidal deposits of the Porter's Gate Formation.
20494444|The mite fauna associated with barley and weeds was studied in four field plots during 1975 and 1976. Species composition on barley was similar to that on weeds, thirty-one and thirty-eight species respectively being recorded. The pattern of colonization was also similar, the maximum number of species being reached by mid-July in 1975 and mid-August in 1976. Population densities were comparable on barley and weeds and were much greater in 1975 (13-16 per g dry wt) than in 1976 (0.4 per g). Tyrophagus longior, Tarsonemus confusus, Lupotarsonemus talpae and Siteroptes graminisugus were the most abundant species on barley in 1975, while L talpae, T longior and Steneotarsonemus culmicolus were the commonest species on weeds. T longior was scarce in 1976. Twenty species were recorded from the inflorescence of barley and two (S graminisugus and Tydeus nr. mumaei) were more abundant on the inflorescence than on other plant parts. Most species in the plots were also recorded from adjacent hedgerows but in low density. Hedgerows were not considered a major source of species colonizing barley. Nineteen species were collected from the air, but air currents were probably significant only in the dispersal of S. graminisugus and, to a lesser extent, L talpae.
20494349|A series of cirque moraines deposited on the floor of Lough Nahanagan in eastern Ireland indicates that the latest advance of cirque glaciers occurred between ca. 11,000 and 10,500 B.P. This phase is termed the Nahanagan Stadial. The inner cirque moraines were deposited by active glaciers in an ice-lake. The overriding glaciers deformed the bottom sediments of a previously existing cirque lake that was dammed by an outer cirque moraine of late Midlandian age. Many of the moraines have a high protalus component of granite blocks. Organic silts from the ice-pushed lake clays show a late glacial Juniperus-Empetrum vegetation assemblage and C age of 11,500 B.P. Pollen analysis of silts and silty gyttja overlying the inner cirque moraines indicates that two brief late glacial vegetation assemblages, characterised by Artemisia and by Gramineae-Rumex, occurred before the start of the Littletonian which is distinguished by a strong rise in Juniperus. Temperature calculations based on estimates of snowline positions suggest that mean temperature was about 7.2C cooler during the Nahanagan Stadial than at present.
20518993|The nematode population of peat squares sunk in agar was found to be just as high in the presence of predatory Collembola as in their absence and to be significantly higher when mites (not necessarily predatory) were present than when they were not.
20518978|The Galway Bay region of western Ireland is notable for the diversity and faunal interest of its intertidal habitats. The physiographic and biological features of a representative selection of such shores are described. Zonation patterns and biological exposure indices are presented for the rocky shores, of both limestone and granite, which range in aspect from the wave-pounded Atlantic coasts, as at Doolin Point and Mweenish, to the shelter of Finavarra and the nearly enclosed inlets. The configuration and biota of two rather different rapids systems, through which such inlets communicate with the sea, are described. At Ardfry, near the head of Galway Bay, where a restricted fauna achieves great abundance, the distribution of some algal and animal species has been related to the pattern of water movement. At the more oceanic Cashla Bay locality, on the other hand, the fauna is notably diverse although the filter feeders again achieve great prominence. The animals associated with Zostera and the in-fauna of sand are described from the sheltered bay at Mweenish. Attention has been paid throughout both to the characteristic biota of each habitat and to the uncommon or more unusual animals discovered there.
20518952|Tubocurare given intramuscularly ante-mortem reduced the extent to which biochemical changes occurred in m. longissimus dorsi and in the red and white areas of m. semitendinosus of Pitrain pigs at or immediately after death. The subsequent rates of ATP hydrolysis, lactate formation and pH fall were not reduced curarisation.
20518879|Detailed investigations in north-east Ireland have been carried out, involving field mapping in an area of approximately 600 square miles. Evidence from erratics, till fabrics and striae indicate that the area was subjected to a complex series of ice movements involving frequent changes of centres of dispersal and considerable topographic control of ice-flow. Two main phases of ice movement are recognised and it is suggested that both occurred within the last glaciation. In the first phase, Scottish ice flowed south-westwards across Co. Down and north-westwards across the plateau of southern Co. Antrim and along the coast of east Co. Antrim. In the second phase, Irish ice was dominant, fanning out from a centre of dispersal in the Lough Neagh basin. Ice flowed south-eastwards across Co. Down, and north-eastwards in south Co. Antrim, veering northwards along the coast. Scottish ice failed to penetrate the area in this phase except in north Co. Antrim, where the Armoy moraine represents its maximum incursion. No evidence for a later Antrim Coast Readvance of Scottish ice has been found in the area.
20494908|A total of seventy-four identified species of Agromyzidae are recorded for Ireland in this paper. This list is based both on new material (collected mainly on the Burren, Co. Clare) and on revision of previous Irish records. One new synonymy is proposed (under Phytomyza tenella Meigen).
20494348|A detailed examination of the geomorphology, geology and archaeology of the cave was made. The cave consists of a series of large caverns linked by a now fossil stream cave. The cave has probably been hydrologically inactive since the onset of the last glacial and is now being infilled by boulder falls and the deposition of calcite. The discovery of coins of Viking age together with data from bone remains and radio-carbon dating seem to confirm the annalistic belief that many Irish died in the cave as a result of an attack by the Dublin Vikings around 929 A.D.
20494352|A sample of 108 feral American mink Mustela vison, trapped in Ireland, was examined and dissected. The majority bore wild-type pelage but 6% were colour varieties normally found on fur farms. Variation in the arrangement of white hair on the ventral surface is described. Some criteria of maturity were investigated; adult dimensions are listed with some details of juvenile growth. The seasonal variation in the male reproductive organs is given; a steep increase in testis weight in December corresponds with the attainment of full size by juveniles and their sexual maturity. The breeding season is similar to that of ranched mink. Irish mink feed on a wide variety of animal food. Most of the data came from one area where the main foods were lagomorphs (probably rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus) and crayfish Astacus pallipes, together with rats Rattus norvegicus, fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus, birds, frogs Rana temporaria and fish. Ectoparasites were identified; the fleas recovered had rats and mice as their true hosts. The apparent freedom from disease and frequency of fat deposits are in keeping with a successful introduced species, steadily expanding its range.
20518994|A total of 57 carbonate secreting marine organisms from a cold temperate marine environment were analysed to determine the distribution of calcium, magnesium and strontium in their skeletons. Mineralogy is the overriding factor only in the enrichment of magnesium in these skeletons. A mineralogical control of strontium enrichment as a first order effect is evident only in the higher mollusca. Most other organisms show strontium levels that cannot be accounted for by their mineralogy and crystal chemistry alone. Also within a single phyletic group there is considerable variation in the strontium levels even between genera. It is surmised that in addition to a mineralogical-ecological control, a phylogenetic and biochemical control is effective in governing trace and minor element enrichment in carbonate skeletons. A comparison of the biogeochemistry of temperate and warm water skeletal materials indicates that the Sr/Ca atom ratio of temperate water organisms is much less than the Sr/Ca ratio of the seawater of the area, while in most warm water organisms it is very near to or greater than the seawater value. The ratios for the higher Mollusca are the same for both environments. These findings are significant in relation to carbonate geochemistry, diagenesis and the environmental and palaeogeographic interpretations of ancient carbonate sediments.
20494867|Interglacial deposits were discovered during well-digging at Baggotstown, near Bruff, County Limerick. The deposits contain the characteristic flora of the Gortian (Hoxnian) interglacial period. The vegetational sequence, based on pollen-analysis, is (1) a period with Salix (willow) and herbs; (2) a Hippophae-Juniperus (sea-buckthorn, juniper) period; (3) a period of Betula (birch) forest; (4) a Betula-Pinus (pine) period; (5) a Pinus-Betula period with some Quercus (oak). (6) a Pinus-Quercus period; (7) a period with Alnus, Taxus, Abies, Picea and Rhododendron (alder, yew, silver fir, spruce and rhododendron); (8) after an erosional hiatus, a period with herbs and Pinus. The interglacial deposits lie between stony clays. The lower clay is probably a boulder-clay of Elsterian age, the first deposit of this age to be identified in Ireland. In addition to pollen the deposits were rich in fossil seeds, fruits, mosses and molluscs which are reported on. A small organic interglacial deposit containing a temperate flora stratified in the boulder-clay above the main interglacial deposit cannot be dated. This report deals primarily with the interglacial flora and fauna. The glacial deposits require further study.
20494276|Lichenological surveys of south-east Ireland in 1974 and 1975 furnished a list of 264 taxa of which six, Bacidia pruinosa, Lecanora muralis var. diffracta, Opegrapha lyncea, Micarea prasina, Parmelia cetrarioides and Pertusaria coccodes, are new to the Irish flora. 373 vice-county records from Carlow, Dublin, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Tipperary (South), Waterford, Wexford and Wicklow are also enumerated. The ecology and status, based mainly on an appraisal of 61 major sites, are given for many of the 203 taxa listed. 292 lichen taxa have been recorded since the lichen survey programme began in 1973, and it is estimated that more than one-quarter of the ten-kilometre grid squares within the area defined as "south-east Ireland" have reasonably detailed coverage.
20494466|A geological investigation of a silica sand pit at Pollnahallia, near Headford, County Galway, revealed a complex network of gorges and caves in the limestone now covered by superficial material including glacigenic deposits. An organic deposit 5m thick in the bed of one of the gorges has been shown biostratigraphically to be Late Tertiary or Early Pleistocene in age. The organic deposit is in turn overlain by a pure silica sand deposit of unknown age which is over 8m thick. This sand appears to have been deposited in the gorge by the action of wind, or possibly by water, and may have originated from weathered quartzites in Connemara. Overlying the whole sequence are undated glacigenic deposits, possibly indicating ice movement from the north and northwest. Glacial action, including that of meltwater, has reworked some of the silica sand and rafted large sheets of limestone to cover parts of the gorge.
20519023|The dependence of the crystal stability of NiA zeolites on the level of ion-exchange and the temperature of outgassing is investigated. Nine samples with exchange levels varying in the range 83-802% exchange are examined. Each Ni after the first, entering the unit cell causes an increase of 3 HO molecules in the unit cell water content. While samples exchanged up to 75% were stable to outgassing at least up to 673 K, exchange above this level introduces crystal instability; this is attributed to Ni ions replacing Na at the 8-oxygen ring sites.
20519054|329 rock gobies were collected at the shores of Carna, Connemara, over a period of twelve months. Their age, growth, reproduction and diet are examined. Both sexes are evenly distributed in the population. The gobies may live for seven years or longer, growing to 13.0cm in that time, but few of the fish live more than three or four years. The fish begin to mature in their second year and spawn when they are two or three years old. Both sexes mature at the same age. The spawning season extends from march to June, being most intense from mid-March to mid-May. Fecundity is similar at Carna and the Isle of Man. The gobies are carnivorous, feeding mainly on amphipods, polychaetes, ostracods, copepods, gastropods and insect larvae.
20494508|The base-catalysed reaction of 2-hydroxybenzaldehydes with methyl cyanoacetate at room temperature affords 2-(2-amino-3-methoxycarbonyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-yl)-2-cyanoethanoates, which at higher temperatures are converted into methyl 3-amino-2-cyano-3-(2-oxo-2H-1-benzopyran-3-yl)-2-propenoates.
20518973|Three formations have been established within the group, of which neither base nor top is exposed within the mapped area (in ascending order): (i) Valentia Slate Formation (over 3,200m in thickness), dominantly cleaved siltstones, (ii) St. Finan's Sandstone Formation (2,160-2,440m) and (iii) Ballinskelligs Sandstone Formation (over 1,180m). Thin lenticular polymict conglomerates appear in all three formations along the northern part of the area. The St. Finan's Formation shows a marked lateral change of facies, green chloritic sandstones increasing from west to east. Lithological correlation with established successions in neighbouring areas is suggested. The Hercynian structures of the area comprise two principal anticlines (Portmagee and Kilcrohane) with a medial syncline (Inny). Axial planes are almost vertical except in a zone in the northern part where overfolding occurs in folds with axial-plane dip as low as 30 to the south-south-east. Axialplane cleavage is present in the finer sediments. Steep-angle thrust faulting occurs but no marked horizontal translation is apparent. Rotational faults parallel to the regional strike are a feature of the southern anticline.
20518890|The writer is privileged to have been afforded the opportunity of perusing the late G. P. Farran's manuscripts. It was apparent that, apart from work carried out for the River Liffey Survey, most of his freshwater entomostracan work was never published. Data concerning the frequency, occurrence and distribution of thirty-four species of freshwater copepods were extracted and have been listed systematically. Some previous Irish records are given and some of the writer's own work in this field is included where appropriate.
20519047|Erosion by the Colebrooke river exposed a section in the side of a drumlin at Hollymount, near Maguiresbridge, Co. Fermanagh, during the early part of 1971. Site investigations, including drilling, revealed a thick deposit of freshwater silts containing thin bands of organic detritus, sealed between two separate till sheets. The lower till and part of the laminated silts are below the base river flow; the upper till is in drumlin form. A bulk sample of organic detritus taken from the silts gave a C date of &gt;41,500 years B.P. (Birm. 309). The flora and fauna of the laminated series indicate that the surrounding environment was of open northern aspect during the deposition of the silts.
20494928|Amongst the fishes from the 'Challenger' Expedition received by the National Museum of Ireland in 1899 are type specimens of sixteen species. Their type status had been previously unsuspected. A list of these type specimens is given, with notes on the collection of the same species in the British Museum (Natural History), their lengths, locality and synonyms are detailed. The list of type specimens is preceded by a discussion of the history of this fish collection, and the intentions of the principals of the 'Challenger' expedition with regard to the disposal of type specimens. Correspondence is quoted between Dr. Albert Gnther of the British Museum (Natural History), and Professor Sir Charles Wyville Thomson and Dr. John Murray of the 'Challenger' from published and unpublished sources.
20494326|3-Alkylthio-5-methyl-s-triazolo [3, 4-a] phthalazin-6-ones and the corresponding sulphones on treatment with hydrazine undergo nucleophilic cleavage of the pyridazine ring with formation of o-substituted benzoylhydrazines. The corresponding 5-phenyl analogues undergo a similar ring cleavage but with much greater facility and with a wider variety of nucleophiles. The 3-methylsulphonyl group in all s-triazolo [3, 4-a] phthalazines examined was stable to nucleophiles. A novel replacement of a chlorine atom by a thiol group is also recorded.
20518910|This paper is a further review and assessment of the numerous papers which have been published in recent years on the extent and dissolution of the last ice-sheet in Ireland and the Irish Sea.
20494493|A mercuric bromide catalysed nucleophilic substitution reaction between the metal alkoxide of an -hydroxy acetal and 5-amino-7-methylthiofurazano[3,4-d]pyrimidine (5) leads to an unambiguous synthesis of 2,4-diamino derivatives of 8-oxa-7,8-dihydropteridines (pyrimido[4,5-b][1,4]oxazines).
20519028|DTG curves and sorption equilibria of zeolitic CO and NH in Linde Molecular Sieve type Y ion-exchanged with Li, Na, K, Ag, Ca, Sr, Ba, Mn, Co and in HNaY are discussed. The selectivities of the sorbents for CO at 303.15 K were: KY &gt; NaY &gt; LiY &gt; AgY &gt; HNaY BaY &gt; NaY &gt; SrY &gt; CaY &gt; CoY  MnY and for NH at 473.15 K AgY  LiY = NaY &gt; KY &gt; HNaY and CoY &gt; SrY &gt; BaY &gt; CaY &gt; MnY. The data suggest that the Co, Mn and Ag ions in the outgassed zeolites are located in sites inaccessible to CO while NH interacted strongly with all the cations. Equilibration of the NH/MnY and NH/CoY systems was very slow at the lower temperatures. The CoY and MnY/CO systems were well represented by a theoretical isotherm equation for 0 &lt;  &lt; 0.6 indicative of sorbate mobility with localisation setting in at higher coverages; Henry's law constants and initial heats of sorbed CO are discussed.
20518940|The northern part of the Leinster Massif has a core of granite flanked by Lower Palaeozoic rocks. Several formations are differentiated in the sequences on either side of the granite and the successions are correlated. Acritarchs and chitinozoa give some age indications. The Bray Group, on the eastern side of the granite, ranges at least from late Lower Cambrian to early Middle Cambrian. It structurally overlies probable Cambrian to lower Ordovician Ribband Group rocks and is separated from them by a thrust. West of the granite the lower Ordovician Ribband Group is overlain by formations of probable mid-Ordovician to Silurian age.
20494459|A comprehensive study of the morphology and properties of podzolic soils in the north of Ireland was undertaken. Profile descriptions and chemical data are presented for podzolic soils representative of categories in the classification system for England and Wales. Compared to Britain, the morphological range of these soils is limited in the north of Ireland. Ironpan stagnopodzols and ferric podzols are the predominant profile types. Two evolutionary sequences are identified: (1) ferric podzols  ironpan stagnopodzols; (2) ferric podzols  humo-ferric podzols  humus-ironpan stagnopodzols. Ferric podzols form by isoelectric precipitation of positively charged iron and aluminium sols in the B horizon. With altitude these soils become ironpan stagnopodzols. The perched water-table associated with a saturated organic topsoil creates an ironpan at the interface between reducing and oxidising conditions. On low-lying sites a humo-ferric podzol develops when negatively charged colloidal organic acids accumulate at the top of the Bs horizon. High moisture retention capacity in the Bh horizon encourages ironpan formation and the genetic sequence to humus-ironpan stagnopodzol is completed.
20518865|Interglacial deposits were discovered as a result of well-digging in Kildromin Townland, near Herbertstown, Co. Limerick. The deposits contain the characteristic flora of the Gortian (Hoxnian) interglacial period. In the temperate part of the interglacial a Pinus -- Betula -- Quercus (pine -- birch -- oak) period is followed by a period of Taxus -- Alnus -- Abies -- Rhododendron -- Picea (yew -- alder -- silver fir -- rhododendron -- spruce). The interglacial deposit lies between stony clays. The lower clay may be an Elsterian boulder-clay. The upper till, only 4.5 m. thick, represents both the Saale an Weichsel glaciations. Further investigation of the older regional glacial deposits by drilling is desirable. The vegetation succession in the four main Irish Gortian sites is compared and brought into one zonation system. A comparison is made with Hoxnian sites in Britain.
20494445|The food of otters Lutra lutra on the south shore of Galway Bay was investigated by analyses of monthly collections of faeces and proved to be almost entirely a wide range of littoral and sublittoral demersal fish, particularly rocklings (Gadidae), eel Anguilla anguilla and wrasses (Labridae) Significant seasonal and locational differences were demonstrated for several species and are discussed. Eel seems to be preferred when available. Invertebrates composed less than 6% of hard parts and were mostly almost certainly items originally consumed by fish.
20494374|The previously unknown male and phoretic deuteronymph of Protodinychus punctatus Evans are described and a re-description is given of the idiosoma dorsal and the genital region of the female. Attention is drawn to the form of the tripartite genital shield of the female and of the partial separation of the acetabula of cox I within the gnathopodal cavity. In addition to these features, Protodinychus is shown to present a mosaic of gamasine and uropodine characters. P. punctatus is considered to be the least specialised (? most primitive) member of the Uropodina and is included with the genus Thinozercon Halbert in the super-family Thinozerconoidea within the suborder Uropodina. The three superfamilies considered to constitute this suborder are characterised and distinguished in key form. /// Le mle et la deutronymphe de Protodinychus punctatus Evans, jusque l inconnus, sont dcrits; la femelle est redcrite en insistant sur la morphologie de la face dorsale de l'idiosome et la rgion gnitale. L'pigyne, constitu de trois sclrites, et la sparation partielle des acetabulums des coxas I dans la cavit gnathopodale sont remarquables. Outre ces caractres, Protodinychus prsente une mosaque de structures gamasodes et uropododes. P. punctatus peut tre considr comme le reprsentant le moins spcialis (le plus primitif?) des Uropodides; cette espce a t place, avec le genre Thinozercon Halbert, dans la superfamille des Thinozerconoidea. Les trois superfamilles constituant le sous-ordre des Uropodides sont dfinies et distingues par une clef de dtermination.
20494520|The rate constants for the gas-phase reaction of OH radicals and Cl atoms with sulphur dioxide have been determined at 298  2K and a total pressure of approximately 1atm using a competitive rate technique Values of the rate constants determined are k(OH + SO) = (68  08)  10 l/mol-s and k(Cl + SO) = (15  0.2)  10 l/mol-s. The mechanism and the importance of these reactions in the atmosphere are discussed.
20494828|In the interaction of potassium iodide and alkali hypochlorite solutions a number of rapid successive reactions occur which result in a net increase in hydrogen ion concentration. These reactions are studied by following the changes in acidity with a glass electrode in a titration procedure. From the nature of the titration curves the theory of the reaction mechanisms is worked out quantitatively. Theoretical titration curves are calculated and shown to agree with the experimental curves. From the curves it is also possible to estimate both the total hypochlorite content and the concentration of hypochlorous acid in the original samples. The values so obtained are compared with those found by direct analysis and a simple method for estimating these quantities is suggested. The effects of iodine monochloride formation on reaction equilibria is discussed.
20494422|The rate of development of the eggs and larval stages of the liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica, has been studied at various constant temperatures. Changing temperature experiments were carried out to determine whether these conditions had any extra effect on development. In three out of the four experiments with the eggs a significant accelerating effect on development was found and no effect was recorded in the fourth. The length of life of the miracidia was measured at various constant temperatures. With the larval stages in the snail Lymnaea truncatula no cercari were formed at 10C but several generations of daughter redi were recorded. On the other hand, no daughter redi were found at temperatures of 25C and over. Two changing temperature experiments were carried out and it was found that these conditions had no significant accelerating or retarding effect on development to release of the cercari. The significance of the results is discussed in the light of the development of forecasting models using climatic variables.
20494951|Eighteen appinitic intrusions, associated with the late-Caledonian Leinster Granite body in south-east Ireland, are described. They are typically coarse hornblende-bearing types, frequently with biotite, and pyroxene- and olivine-bearing members occur. Hornblende-rich diorites are also associated. The relation of these intrusions--areally and in time--to the major granite batholith is discussed.
20519006|An account is given of the present information available on the occurrence of Myocetophilidae in Ireland. This is based on material in museum and private collections, principally that of the author, while existing published records referring to about fifty species are evaluated. One hundred and sixty-five species are accepted as Irish but the limited data even for common species precludes any conclusions on distribution within Ireland. Although many additional species will probably be found in Ireland with further collecting, this is considered the time to give an introductory account. A general account of the habits and biology of fungus-gnats and a summary of taxonomic works relevant to the Irish fauna are also included by way of an introduction. The name Leia nasuta Haliday, previously unrecognised, is shown to be the valid name for the species misidentified as Boletina lundbecki Lundstrm by Edwards.
20494497|In this study we have investigated the structure of a sialo-tetrasaccharide (A2a) released from bovine submaxillary mucin by alkaline borohydride treatment. The structure, determined by a combination of 1-D and 2-D (COSY and RELAYED-COSY), H n.m.r. experiments at 270MHz, was as follows: Gal(1  4)GlcNAc(1  3)[NeuAc(2  6)] GalNAcol. We also present evidence for the occurrence of a second sialo-tetrasaccharide (A2b), Gal(1  4)GlcNAc(1  3)[NeuGc(2  6)]GalNAcol, shown to be present by h.p.l.c. and by H n.m.r. spectroscopy in a mixture with oligosaccharide (A2a). This is the first report of the isolation from bovine submaxillary mucin of a sialylated tetrasaccharide. Structure (A2a) has previously been found in cystic fibrosis bronchial mucin as well as rat and human colonic mucin, while structure (A2b) is novel.
20519012|Certain aspects are described of some of the approximately one hundred meltwater channels which formed during the multiple glaciation of County Dublin. A large number of marginal valleys developed as the last (i.e. Dublin) ice-sheet withdrew: they are discussed by reference to selected examples. The remaining groups are each represented in the field by only a few channels, so that most or all of these are mentioned individually.
20494512|Reaction of azide ion in aqueous solution with (Z) and (E)-O-acylbenzohydroximoyl chlorides (7) and (9) both lead to the formation of the same open-chain Z-hydroximoyl azide (8). The reaction is bimolecular involving addition of
20494414|A lanthanide-induced shift study using Eu(fod), Pr(fod) Yb(fod) in the spectrum of Me 4,6-O-benzylidene-2,3-di-O-methyl--d-glucopyranoside together with Gd(fod) relaxation data allowed location of lanthanide and determination of co-ordination geometry. Shifts calculated using an approximate model were in good agreement with the observed Pr(fod) data. A variable temperature H-n.m.r. study clearly showed that Yb(fod) complexation was not in the fast exchange regime at room temperature.
20494302|In cyclohexane solution the title compounds exhibit a single fluorescence band around 340 nm. In acetonitrile, dual luminescence is observed with bands at 340 and 480 nm. The intensity ratio of the emission bands depends on the excitation wavelength and the solvent composition in acetonitrile-protic solvent mixtures. The high-energy emission is ascribed to a planar charge-transfer electronic state and the low-energy emission to an isomer in which the MeN-group is twisted substantially out of the aromatic ring plane.
20494929|The water-soluble muscle proteins of the white muscle of fourteen species and two hybrid forms of Irish freshwater fishes were investigated by electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel. Each species showed a characteristic electrophoretogram pattern. It was found that in some species the protein pattern of white muscle varied with the part of the body from which it was taken. Changes in the muscle proteins with age, reported by other authors in the cod and salmon, were found in brown trout and rainbow trout.
20494496|1-(2-Hydroxyphenyl)-3-phenyl-1,3-propanediones, when substituted in the 2-position, undergo a retro Baker-Venkataraman rearrangement to form esters of 2-hydroxyacetophenone. When the 2-substituent is a hydroxy group, the ester formed, a 2-aroyloxy-2-hydroxyacetophenone, is the result of a Karrer rearrangement.
20494530|A series of aroylferrocenes RCHCOCHFeCH (R=H, p-CH, o-CH, p-OCH, o-OCH, p-Br and p-Cl) and their Cr(CO) complexes have been prepared and characterised. The radical anions of these compounds were prepared and their e.s.r. spectra obtained. The spectra of the compounds with and without a Cr(CO) group where R=H, p-CH and p-OCH were well enough resolved to observe hyperfine splittings which arise from the p and o-protons of the benzene ring and in some cases from the -protons of the substituted cyclopentadienyl ring. The hyperfine splittings of the Cr(CO) complexes are about half the value of those observed for the parent aroylferrocene, indicating that the Cr(CO) group is withdrawing a substantial amount of unpaired electron density. The results also indicate electron delocalisation throughout the CHCOCHR group and are consistent with the ferrocenyl group being more electron-releasing than phenyl.
20494278|The pre-Old Red Sandstone sequence of the Slievenamon Inlier is over 7000m in thickness and is practically devoid of megafossils. Palynological preparations of selected rock samples have revealed the presence of microfossils which give new evidence for the age of these rocks. The lowest rocks contain an assemblage of Upper Cambrian acritarchs, and the highest formation has yielded abundant plant spores of Wenlock age. The intervening rocks all contain assemblages indicating an early Ordovician age, and it is suggested that reworking, together with an original absence of potential fossil later Ordovician and Silurian microplankton may in part account for this. It is concluded that deposition in the area was probably continuous from Upper Cambrian to Wenlock times.
20518977|An investigation of the invertebrate fauna of the salt-marsh, North Bull Island, Dublin, was made during 1961-1963. 332 species are listed with notes on zonation, seasonal occurrence and abundance. The aquatic fauna of pans and channels is brackish in character and shows zonation according to a salinity gradient with the greatest number of species and highest faunal density in the lower zones. The fauna of the soil surface is influenced by tidal frequency but species occurring below a depth of 1cm are the same in all zones of the marsh. The great majority of aerial and vegetative species are found near the upper limits of the tidal zone and are not typical of salt-marshes.
20494467|During a day and night neuston survey in Galway Bay 89 species of benthic or other Peracaridea were recorded from surface (0-100mm) and subsurface (120-480mm) water. The total number of species and individuals in night samples, taken from May to September 1984, increased significantly as water temperature rose. With the aid of factor analysis interspecific similarity in behaviour was isolated giving eight species groups. Most species underwent a nocturnal vertical migration from the benthos to surface water, while the migrations of other species (Jassa, Dexamine) were less confined to the nocturnal period. Some species (Idotea, Gammarus) were associated with driftweed while Gammarellus spp occurred freely swimming at the surface both day and night. Only males of many benthohyponeustonic amphipods and cumaceans were recorded. These were mainly soft-bottom dwelling infaunal species. Species associated with driftweed, mysids and some amphipods occurred mainly as juveniles. The adaptive functions of pelagic behaviour and its consequences for benthic community dynamics are discussed. This behaviour recurs consistently in the same genera in other geographic regions.
20518861|The Caradoc conglomerates at Grangegeeth are shown to overlie a series of tuffs and shales of Llanvirn age which were previously undated. Shales above the conglomerates have yielded a prolific trilobite fauna associated with graptolites. The age of these beds, which is low in the Caradoc, is discussed.
20494918|1. Foot pad surface temperatures of rats adapted to 8C and 20C and measured at the adaptation temperature differed by approximately 10. 2. Aldolase showed no change in activity in pad muscle from 8 as compared with 20 adapted rats. 3. Succinic dehydrogenase had an increased activity in foot pad muscle from 8 adapted rats as compared with similar muscle from 20 adapted animals. 4. When one foot of a cold-adapted rat was kept warm while the rest of the animal remained at 8 the succinic dehydrogenase activity in the pad muscle of this foot showed a significant fall as compared with the other one. 5. Plantar muscles from warm-adapted rats were cultured at 10 and 30. The activity of succinic dehydrogenase in the 10 cultured muscle was lower than in the warm culture. It is suggested that there is some agent (possibly a hormone) affecting the activity of the enzyme and this has a different effect when the tissue is warm as compared with when it is cold.
20494378|Four species of planktonic ctenophores were recorded from the west coast of Ireland with Pleurobrachia pileus being the most consistently sampled and most numerous species. The presence of Bere gracilis is doubtful. Occurrences of Bolinopsis and Bere species were relatively few; they were mainly in the summer. In Galway Bay, the number of P. pileus fluctuated greatly, but usually reached a maximum in late spring to early summer; a lesser peak occurred in late autumn to early winter. The species exhibits a patchy distribution and a seasonal shift in the centre of distribution in the bay. Spawning appears to be continuous, with three to four or more generations per annum. The occurrences of Bere spp in the bay, although brief, may have exerted a predatory pressure on P. pileus.
20519036|The distribution and size of Fucus spiralis and the fauna associated with this upper littoral wrack in Strangford Lough have been studied. Various physical parameters were measured at each of several sites and correlated with the distribution of the wrack and its associated fauna. Factors favourable to the establishment of this fucoid were also favourable to the growth of individual plants. A total of fourteen associated taxa was recorded, six of which occurred at more than half the sampling sites. No encrusting or sessile species were found. The total faunal biomass per ml of plant tissue increased with plant volume. The fauna associated with F. spiralis and F. ceranoides were not significantly different but Pelvetia canaliculata, although occurring at much the same tidal level, had a lower total faunal biomass per ml of plant tissue than either of these fucoids.
20494909|A detailed stratigraphic sequence has been deduced from medium-grade metamorphic rocks which form the envelope of the Slieve Gamph igneous complex. The rocks are similar to typical Dalradian lithologies and the detailed sequence is tentatively correlated with the Kilmacrenan Dalradian succession of Donegal. Two distinct types of amphibolite rock are observed. One type appears to have formed contemporaneously with the sedimentation of the Dalradian rocks; the other type occurs as intrusive masses which were emplaced during the folding of the metasedimentary rocks.
20519048|The stratigraphy, sedimentology and paleontology of the Silurian inlier of the Galty Mountain area are described. The succession is divided into two formations. The thickly bedded, mid-grey turbidites of the Inchacoomb Formation, yielding only a fragmentary fauna of little biostratigraphical significance, are succeeded by the darker, siltier greywackes of the Ballygeana Formation, which contains a notably greater proportion of interbedded siltstones and mudstones. Graptolites from the Ballygeana Formation indicate the presence of the lower to middle Wenlock zones: centrifugus, riccartonensis, and linnarssoni. A single diplograptid may indicate a Llandovery age for the base of this formation. An estimated thickness of 2875m is suggested for the Silurian succession.
20518927|This is the sixth contribution from the west coast plankton investigation programme and details the occurrence in the Galway Bay area of forty-two species of pelagic Cnidaria. Some of these are recorded for the first time, and others have only rarely been noted, in Irish waters. They are the results of surveys carried out from 1956-72. Some conclusions are drawn as to the abundance and seasonal occurrence of these forms in the area. Previous Irish records for the species encountered have been reviewed synonymously and the work provides a check-list for the occurrence of these forms in Irish inshore waters.
20519011|The abundance and occurrence of the oceanic chaetognaths Sagitta tasmanica Thompson and Krohnitta subtilis Grassi was observed in the plankton of Galway Bay, 1972-1973. It is suggested that these animals are recruited with intrusions of open sea water into the Galway Bay area at certain times of the year.
20518855|The Ardara granite pluton is made up of two intrusive units. A study of their chemistry shows that they were produced by the contamination of an acid parent magma by a mixture of two kinds of country rock: metamorphosed basic igneous rock (metadolerite) and pelitic rocks rich in potassium and aluminium. The proportion of pelitic to basic rocks was greater in the material assimilated by the Outer Unit than in that assimilated by the Central Unit. The textural relations between the feldspars can be used to confirm the magmatic origin of the uncontaminated rocks in the Central Unit. Features indicative of replacement are present in the contaminated rocks of the Central Unit and in the Outer Unit, and are related to the reaction of assimilated material with the magma. If the chemistry of the granites and their associated appinites is compared with that of Scottish Caledonian igneous rocks the variation of individual elements is similar, but it can be shown that the trend of enrichment or depletion of most elements would be the same for a series of contaminated magmas as for a series of differentiated magmas. The variation of potassium and rubidium does however provide clear evidence for the process of contamination. Their variation in the Ardara pluton is markedly different to that in Scottish Caledonian igneous rocks because of the unusually high potassium and rubidium contents of the pelitic rocks assimilated by the former.
20494950|This is the first detailed qualitative and quantitative investigation of the larval and post-larval fish in the plankton of Irish waters. The area, stretching from Blacksod Bay to just south of Loop Head, was investigated during the period August, 1958 to February, 1966. Larvae and/or post-larvae of sixty-eight species of fish are recorded from the inshore plankton (within the fifty fathom line) of the west coast. Neither larvae nor post-larvae of thirty-nine of the species are previously recorded in Irish waters. In addition, six of the remaining species are recorded for the first time in the larval, post-larval stages along the west coast. A description of the larval stages of three species, not previously described, is given: they are, Hyperoplus immaculatus, Atherina presbyter and Diplecogaster bimaculata, a drawing of the larval A. presbyter is included; descriptions and drawings of post-larvae of Diplecogaster bimaculata and a Gaidropsarus species, believed to be G. vulgaris, neither previously described, are given; drawings are given of the earliest post-larval stages of Pollachius pollachius and Labrus mixtus to be recorded to date. A description is given of the larval and early post-larval stages of a Coryphoblennius species, together with a drawing of an early post-larval stage.
20518926|This paper describes the glacial stratigraphy of an area of 800km in eastern Cos. Meath and Louth, eastern Ireland (Fig. 1). Four till formations and one glacio-marine formation have been recognised within the Pleistocene succession. The Drogheda Till Formation is the earliest till known in the area and was formed by an ice sheet glaciation which moved south-eastwards over the Drogheda area from north central Ireland. This is directly overlain by the glacio-marine Mell Formation. The Mell Formation is succeeded by the Tullyallen Till Formation which was formed when a major ice sheet expanded over the east coast plain from the Irish Sea Basin. The Tullyallen Till is overlain stratigraphically by the Gilltown Till Formation which was deposited by the last ice sheet of inland origin which moved south-eastwards over the area. The Dunleer Till Formation was formed during a major southward readvance of the last ice sheet in north Co. Louth. No datable organic deposits are known to occur between the five formations. It has proved difficult to assign the lower formations in this succession to any particular cold stage of the Pleistocene because of the absence of known, intraformational organic deposits.
20519059|Specimens of Hydrilla verticillata (L. fil.) Royle (sensu lato) from Ireland and from north-eastern Poland were found to be diploid, with 2n = 16, and all plants were shown to have virtually identical idiograms. Another clone of unknown origin, long cultivated in the Botanical Garden of Krakw University, was triploid; its idiogram is compared with that of the diploids. These results are confronted with previously published accounts of Asiatic material. The chromosomes of Elodea nuttallii (Planchon) St. John, an American plant recently naturalised in Europe and spreading rapidly, were examined in specimens from the Netherlands. They had a chromosome number of 2n = 48, and the chromosomes showed a morphology very distinct from those of Hydrilla. These data confirm the conclusion of Scannell and Webb, that the plant from Renvyle, Co. Galway, must be referred to Hydrilla and not to Elodea.
20494871|The study of the Irish Tubificidae has been largely neglected since the publication of a check list by Southern in 1909. The only other person to have concerned himself with them was Friend, whose taxonomic studies and identifications are unreliable (Cernosvitov 1941). Accordingly, it appeared that a complete revision of the Irish tubificids was ong overdue. In this paper an attempt is made to bring knowledge of the Irish tubificids up to date and into line with the European species. The literature pertaining to the Irish tubificids is here reviewed. In addition, the results of an examination of Southern's specimens are presented, together with information gained from visiting sites and making further collections. It has proved possible to confirm or correct the identity of most of the earlier records by a study of their descriptions, by examination of specimens or by both and to bring the nomenclature up to date. As a result of this survey, seventeen species are now recognised as occurring in Ireland, six of which are new Irish records. All of these are encountered, more or less commonly, in Britain.
20518943|Miospores are described for the first time from the Upper Devonian-?Upper Carboniferous Cork Beds of southern Ireland. Some local and regional correlations are proposed, and age determinations including the position of the Devonian/Carboniferous boundary are suggested by comparison with miospore successions established elsewhere in western Europe. Two subzones are recognised within the NV miospore zone of Neves et al. (1972). The names and definitions of some local lithostratigraphical units have been revised.
20518957|Columnea L. as found in the Caribbean area is represented by the sections Columnea, Pterygoloma (Hanstein) Fritsch and Collandra (Lemaire) Bentham. Alloplectus ambiguus Urban and A. domingensis Urban are both transferred to a more widely defined sect. Collandra in Columnea. A key is given to the sections and species and the latter are described with synonymy, herbarium citations and chromosome number if counted.
20494543|The parameters affecting the mass transfer coefficients for external transport of basic dyes from aqueous solution onto activated carbon particles have been studied. The external mass transfer coefficients have been found to vary with initial dye concentration, particle size and adsorbent mass on log-log coordinates. The external mass transfer coefficient,
20494456|The biology of the solenette Buglossidium luteum was examined between March 1978 and September 1979. A total of 268 fish were collected on sandy bottoms off the north shore of Galway Bay. The population was mainly composed of nine-year-old fish, but specimens may live up to sixteen years. Most growth occurs in the first two to three years of life, after which there is a gradual reduction. Females appear to grow faster and live longer than males. The largest fish captured was a female measuring 118cm (133cm T.L.). The fish mature in their third year of life. The spawning period extends from May to August. The solenette is a carnivore, the diet consisting mainly of amphipods, polychtes, copepods and molluscs.
20494877|A series of unfossiliferous beds, possibly of Arenig age, is overlain by 1500 ft. of graptolitic Llanvirn mudstones with welded tuffs, spilites and mudflows. The Llanvirn succession is capped by a thin, calcareous horizon containing what is considered to be an Upper Llanvirn shelly fauna. The Llanvirn rocks are succeeded by a succession of Caradoc shales, mudstones and calcareous ashes with a Diplograptus multidens zone graptolitic fauna in its lower part and an Actonian shelly fauna above. The maximum thickness of the series is about 1000 ft. The area has suffered a general low grade metamorphism resulting in the sporadic development of metamorphic spotting and minerals belonging to the zeolite facies.
20518893|The fifth contribution from the west coast plankton investigation programme results from the first qualitative and quantitative survey of the Chaetognatha of the inshore plankton of Irish waters. The areas sampled, during the years 1958-1966, are Mutton Island, Galway Bay, Killeany Bay, Inishmore, Aran Islands and Kilkieran Bay, Connemara. Four species of Chaetognatha are recorded and mention is made of their probable breeding time off the west coast. The distribution of the individual species of chaetognath is related to that of various other members of the plankton and their value as indicators of water masses of different origins is assessed. The greater yield of fish larvae from a particular area is associated with better survival of fish larvae in water of mixed origins as typified by the presence of Sagitta elegans.
20494294|The configurations of 3-arylmethylenethioflavanones prepared by the condensation of thioflavanones and araldehydes and of their photoisomers are assigned on the basis of n.m.r. spectroscopy. The 1,1-dioxide derivatives of trans-3-arylmethylenethioflavanones are also described.
20494416|The incorporation of [2-H]-myo-inositol into the phosphatidyl inositols of mouse inflammatory peritoneal macrophages gave labelled phospholipid from these cells. Chemical degradation followed by chromatographic comparison with unlabelled standards enabled confirmation of the myo-inositol-1(glyceryl-1-phosphate) structure. G.l.c.-mass spectrometry indicated that the principal fatty acids in the 1, 2-sn-diacyl glyceryl moiety were stearate, palmitate, linoleate, oleate and arachidonate. Incorporation of (13- C)-arachidonic acid into the phosphatidyl inositols and enzymic hydrolysis with phospholipase A showed that this acid is predominantly at the glyceryl-2-position.
20519004|The Bray Group crops out over an area of 200 sq km and can be divided into two Formations. These are the Devil's Glen Formation (2000m) and the overlying Bray Head Formation (2500m+). The former comprises massive, generally unlaminated greywackes and slates. The latter is characterised by well laminated greywackes and interstratified quartzites. Microfossils from the Bray Head Formation indicate a late Lower to early Middle Cambrian age. The rocks are bounded on the west and south by Cambrian - Ordovician age strata of the Ribband Group. All the rocks are turbidites. No palaeocurrent data are available for the older Formation. The greywackes of the younger Formation have an approximate northerly derivation. They are probably derived from Precambrian rocks similar to those of the Rosslare Complex. The interstratified quartzites may have been derived from rocks similar to those of the Precambrian Cullenstown Formation of County Wexford. The Bray Group forms a large thrust mass overlying the Ribband Group and comprises a complex syncline and subsidiary anticline. Translation was broadly westwards. These structures originated during a precleavage deformation which also includes slumping. A syncleavage deformation corresponding to the early regional fold phase already established in adjacent areas is represented by folds which show marked plunge variations. A wide belt of very steep plunges occurs in the south; elsewhere the fold axes are more or less horizontal. Numerous faults are present, some of which are several kilometres in length.
20494484|Magilligan Foreland, Ireland's largest coastal accumulation, has yielded nineteen high-precision C dates (from wood, peat, charcoal, soil organic matter, marine shell and freshwater marl) and nine low-precision C dates (from marine shell). Although none of the C dates obtained is older than 4500 yearts B.P., the series of beach ridge probably began to accumulate c. 7000-6500 years B.P. Integration of the C dates with geomorphological, pedological and archaeo-logical evidence suggests a complex late Holocene history. The erliest preserved palaeotopography, an extensive beadch ridge plain, passes northwards into a sequence of penecontemporaneous aeolian dunes. This experienced considerable pedogenesis over a period of c. 3000 years. Peat formation began in the inter-ridge depressions as early as c. 2500 years B.P. Podzolic and brown soils developed on the ridge crests and slopes. Archaeological remains indicate permanent settlement in the Early Christian period. About 1200-600 years B.P., the Lough Foyle margin of Magilligan was buried by northward-migrating aeolian dunes. The dune system eroded to a planar surface delimited by lithomorphic soils which were in turn buried by modern dune sands, possibly associated with the extensive rabbit warrens of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Shore-plarallel dunes along the north-east coast of Magilligan have probably formed since c. 700 years B.P. Rapid erosion since the early 1950s has resulted in 200m progradation at Magilligan Point.
20518928|There are approximately 1,250 drumlins in Co. Clare. Their occurrence and orientation is largely controlled by topography. Many of the drumlins occur as ridges of glacial till elongated in the direction of ice-movement but with little or no development of the "classical" stoss end. Drumlins may be composed of tills of varying geological composition or of stratified drift material. This suggests either the mixing of till material before final deposition or the building of drumlins by successive applications of drift material.
20494501|Benzeneselenyl bromide reacts with some ,-unsaturated ethyl esters to give the expected, but rather unstable, bromoselenides derived by Markovnikov addition of the reagent. These can be dehydrobrominated to give the corresponding -benzeneselenyl-,-unsaturated esters Attempted Michael addition of benzeneselenol to the related -bromo-,-unsaturated esters leads to formation of the same bromoselenides as are obtained above, presumably via intramolecular migration of the benzeneselenyl group in an initially-formed ethyl -bromo--benzeneselenylalkanoate through the intermediacy of a cyclic seleniranium ion.
20494254|The last glaciation of the Sperrin Mountains and adjacent areas occurred between 30,500 and 13,000 years B.P. The maximum extension of the ice sheet probably terminated near the mouth of Lough Foyle and in northern Donegal at the Moville Moraine stage which marks the limit of the drumlins in north-west Ireland. The paper gives a detailed account of the moraine stages and associated landforms of fluvioglacial erosion and deposition that were formed during the southward retreat of the ice sheet across north-western Londonderry and Tyrone and through the Sperrin Mountains to the source regions of ice-flow in Lough Neagh, central Tyrone and the Omagh Basin. It is concluded that the ice sheet remained dynamically active until the deglaciation of the Sperrin Mountains had been completed and that the axis of accumulation which controlled the regional pattern of ice movements always lay to the south of the watershed of the Main Sperrin Range.
20519049|This paper records thirty-three species of the Hydrachnellae, with observations on distributions and relative densities, from the River Finn System and the Oweneagh River, Co. Donegal.
20494957|A succession of about 4,700 ft of red and green siltstones, sandstones and pebbly arkoses covering 7 square miles on the south-west side of Clew Bay is described. The succession represents shallow intertidal zone and fluviatile deposition to the south of an extensive area of low and high grade metamorphic rocks with local contemporaneous acid vulcanism. Despite the lack of fossil evidence, the succession is correlated with the shallow marine shelf sediments of Silurian age within the Croagh Patrick Synclinorium to the south. These two areas have comparable first and second phase deformation structures. In the Louisburgh area a third deformation produced large-scale southward thrusting of at least 1 miles on the basal thrust, bringing a littoral facies over the more deformed marine shelf deposits to the south. A fourth deformation produced a monoclinal refolding of earlier structures along the line of a series of small cold serpentinite intrusions emplaced under high gas pressure. D.3 and D.4 structures are probably post-Middle O.R.S. and pre-Carboniferous in age.
20494488|Haliday proposed eight generic names for the family Ephydridae, namely Atissa, Hecamede, Hyadina, Ilythea, Pelina, Glenanthe, Axysta and Halmopota. He also proposed 27 specific names, five of which are considered to be synonyms. The remaining 22 are currently recognised as valid. The insect collections of the National Museum of Ireland contain specimens that relate to the descriptions of Haliday's genera and species. These are listed to include the number of specimens, with other pertinent information under each species. A summary of the work done on the collection since Haliday reveals that the specimens are arranged according to the identifications of J. E. Collin, dating from 1912. There are three type designations, including those of J. E. Collin in 1953 (published 1964), W. N. Mathis in 1977 and P. J. Clausen in 1982 (published 1983), for the species Setacera micans, Lamproscatella sibilans and Axysta cesta respectively. There appear to be no specimens for the two Haliday species Hyadina scutellata and Scatophila compta, or for the two Haliday genera Hyadina and Halmopota.
20494433|A complete core from the compressed peat and compressed lake-mud deposit at Benburb, Co. Tyrone (H 8098 5202), was processed. The pollen profile confirmed that the deposit was an interglacial sequence. Geographic variations in the floristic composition of the vegetation in central Ireland as compared to the south and west are indicated with the interglacial.
20494366|The synthesis of a number of substituted 4-arylhydrazono-5-pyrazolones and 4-arylazopyrazoles is described. Several of these compounds, having a 1-amidino substituent, showed considerable activity against the P.388 mouse leukaemia.
20494443|Of thirty-four halacarid species recorded from the Strangford Narrows and the adjacent Irish Sea twenty-six were present in the samples taken along the sublittoral fringe in the Narrows and twenty-four in the samples obtained from the Irish Sea at depths of 30-42m. Twenty-one species are new to Ireland. Halacarellus southerni (Halbert, 1915) is redescribed. H. areolatus (Halbert, 1915) is considered to be a synonym of H capuzinus (Lohmann, 1893). Copidognathus graveolus Monniot, 1962, and C. lubricellus Bartsch, 1977, prove to be junior synonyms of C septentrionalis Halbert, 1915.
20494411|Electrochemical reduction and photochemical reaction of i-(2-chlorophenyl)-j-phenyltriazoles both give an excellent yield of the tetracyclic triazolophenanthridine product except from some triazoles with three adjacent phenyl substituents. The latter show both cyclization and hydrogen atom abstraction from the solvent by the radical which results after cleavage of the carbon-chlorine bond. Reductive dehalogenation is effective where the substrate adopts a conformation disfavouring the cyclization reaction.
20494495|Clofazimine is an established part of the standard antimycobacterial chemotherapy of leprosy. We have been seeking analogues active against clofazimine-resistant organisms. Using a test organism made resistant to clofazimine (Mycobacterium smegmatis 607 CR), we identified a series of analogues with the required activity. Preliminary tests showed that not all of the agents were absorbed when fed to mice. Accordingly the uptake by the mouse of some thirty agents given by gavage was studied and the best-absorbed were selected for further testing against M leprae in vivo. In general the absorption was poor for those analogues containing a primary or secondary nitrogen in the alkyl side chain present on the iminonitrogen. The tertiary compounds are well absorbed. Eight compounds were selected for screening in the mouse.
20518918|A sparker survey of Lough Swilly, Co. Donegal, revealed two channels in the acoustic basement resulting from glacial overdeepening along fault lines. The first reaches a depth of 170 metres and is attributed to the Leannan fault. The second is the result of a north/south fault, the Lough Swilly fault, which in the south has a N30W orientation. The basement in Trawbreaga Bay also shows channels attributed to faults, the distribution of which lend support to Pitcher et al.'s suggestion (1964) that the Leannan fault is cross-faulted in Trawbreaga Bay. It is suggested that the shape of Lough Swilly is structurally controlled and that the lough has considerable affinities to a fjord.
20518900|Some Michael reactions of ethyl fluorene-9-carboxylate, deoxybenzoin, ethyl benzoylacetate and 1-tetralone with acetylenic esters and ketones are reported. The cis- and trans-isomers of the adduct of 6-methylflavanone and 2-hydroxy-5-methylchalcone are described.
20494910|The constancy of the central temperature of the body has been shown to depend on the coincidence of a rise in oxygen consumption with falling temperature which prevents the temperature of the deeper tissue from falling and of increase in the rate of flow of blood with rising temperature to a level capable of abstracting more heat than is produced. It appears probable that febrile temperature might be the result of a change in the temperature at which this coincidence occurs and that the action of antipyretic drugs in restoring the normal relations might be related to this. The influence of Typhoid vaccine and of sodium salicylate on the oxygen consumption of human saliva is examined. These substances cause marked changes in the relation of oxygen consumption to temperature. The relation of these disturbances to the colloidal structure of the mitochondria on the one hand and to fever and inflammation on the other are discussed.
20494881|Mapping of the eastern part of the Dingle Bay-Buttevant fold belt has established a Dinantian limestone succession with both Tournaisian and Visan 'reef' limestones. Volcanic rocks occur above the Lower Reef Limestone. The succession, of Zaphrentis to Upper Dibunophyllum zonal age, is divided into named formations for each of which characteristic fossils are listed.
20518917|Excavations of surface deposits at Tullyallen Quarry 1.5km north-west of Drogheda revealed a formation of glaciomarine deposits at 29.4 to 40.0m O.D. between two till formations. The glaciomarine deposits contain a cold water fauna of mollusca, crustacea, ostracoda, foraminifera, hydrozoa, and also sparse remains of land plants and marine algae. The upper till formation was deposited by ice from the Irish Sea Basin which moved in a south-westerly direction across the site. The lower till formation was deposited by ice from the Irish midlands, which moved eastwards and south-eastwards towards the Irish Sea Basin. These deposits overlie a variety of residual deposits that are sealed in solution pipes and fissures within the karstic surface of the Lower Carboniferous limestones. The glaciomarine and glacial deposits are considered to belong to the Munsterian Cold Stage of the Pleistocene Period; the residual deposits being older.
20494852|The metamorphic rocks of N. W. Mayo are mainly or entirely Dalradian; possibly the lowest members are of Moinian age. They are pelitic and psammitic metasedimens and subordinate limestones, with a greywacke grou at the top. Metadolerite sills occur at intervals. The pelitic schists bear kyanite in the orth, though over most of N. W. Mayo they are of garnet grade. In the north-west of the area there is a migmatite zone, the rocks being mainly granitic gneisses. The wide development of porphyroblastic oligoclase and albite in the schists is thought to be related to the migmatisation. A structural and stratigraphical correlation between the southern and northern parts of the area, investigated separately by the two authors, is proposed. Correlation with the Scottish Dalradian is difficult; it is considered that the firmest marker horizon is provided by a quartzite series with a boulder bed near its base, these being thought to represent the Islay quartzite and Portaskaig conglomerate.
20518972|Zeolites Cr(III)NaA, Cr(III)NaX, Cr(III)NaY, Y(III)NaA, Y(III)NaX, Y(III)NaY, Fe(III)NaY and Tl(I)Y have been prepared and characterised by sorption of carbon dioxide and ammonia. All sorbents, except TlNaY, showed no loss of crystallinity after several outgassings at 350C and sorption. From an analysis of sorption isotherms, isosteric heats, differential entropies of sorption and heats of immersion data it was concluded that the M cations were not accessible to carbon dioxide but were accessible to ammonia molecules; furthermore there was evidence that the trivalent cations were more accessible to ammonia in the Y than in the X-zeolite. The carbon dioxide sorption data were well described by characteristic curves according to the Polanyi potential theory provided that a fixed molar volume was taken.
20519061|The Lower Palaeozoic sequence of Slieve Aughty is divided into five formations and evidence from rare graptolites and poorly preserved acritarchs is used to date them as follows Toberelatan Formation, Upper Llandeilo - Lower Caradoc, gracilis (? peltifer) Zone, Caher Hill Formation,? Upper Llandeilo to Lower Caradoc, peltifer (? gracilis) Zone, Gortnagleav Formation, undated (? Mid-Caradoc to? Late Llandovery), Derryfadda Formation, Late Llandovery (? crispus Zone) to? Upper Wenlock, Killanena Formation, Late Llandovery to? Upper Wenlock. Correlation with the adjacent inliers of Slieve Bernagh, Broadford Mountains, Cratloe Hills and Slieve Arra is suggested.
20494429|Features generally considered periglacial in origin such as involutions, frost cracks, silt cappings, coarse and fine head, mass movement and tors are described and discussed for Forth Mountain, Co. Wexford. A chronological sequence for their formation is proposed.
20519039|The data resulting from a survey of the arthropod fauna of some common grass and weed species of pasture were analysed on the basis of (a) relative abundance, frequency and fidelity, (b) indices of similarity and (c) principal coordinate analysis in order to ascertain whether discrete plant-arthropod associations could be detected. The results indicated the presence of such associations to varying degrees, particularly in the cases of the grass species Dactylis glomerata L. and Lolium perenne L. and of the stinging nettle, Urtica dioica L. However, there was considerable interaction between the faunas of the various plant species and many of the dominant arthropod species showed little host plant preference. The data indicated that floral diversity, faunal diversity and faunal stability were correlated. However, numbers of the dominant arthropod group present--tarsonemid mites--were not correlated with total arthropod species diversity nor with numbers of predatory mites. It is suggested that factors other than floral diversity including microbial distribution, age and spatial heterogeneity of the sward and management system being practised may also be of considerable significance in promoting and maintaining the diversity and stability of grassland arthropods.
20494894|Compounds prepared by the condensation of periodate-oxidised polysaccharides with various thiosemicarbazides have been found to show antitumour activity both in vitro against HeLa cells and against the solid, transplantable Sarcoma 180 in mice. While the nature of the polysaccharide appears to be relatively unimportant, that of the thiosemicarbazide is critical. A single alkyl or aralkyl group, substituted at the 4-position, is necessary for significant activity but further substitution of the thiosemicarbazide leads to products of less or no activity. The most active compounds prepared were those from 4-methylthiosemicarbazide. The oxypolysaccharide-thiosemicarbazide derivatives appear to become involved in Vitamin B metabolism.
20494266|The structural investigation of a thick sequence of metasediments of Middle and Upper Dalradian age on the north-east coast of Inishowen reveals five fold phases. Early F1 structures trending approximately north-east/south-west have been refolded by a major F2 antiform overturned to the north-west which has produced a downward facing succession in the second cleavage. Later fold phases of varying style F3, F4 and F5 refold this structure. Subsequent brittle deformation has produced a complex fault and joint pattern.
20494259|Palaeomagnetic measurements reveal a systematic difference between the directions of magnetisation of the limestones of north Co. Dublin and those of other parts of the country. The possibilities of a rotation of the Dublin region and/or the selective remagnetisation of the area are discussed. On the evidence at present available it would appear that rotation is the more probable cause.
20494795|A synorogenic ultrabasic and basic intrusion is described. Due to faulting two cross-sections through the synclinally shaped body are exposed. The intrusion hornfelsed its regionally metamorphosed envelope of sillimanite- and almandine-bearing metasediments and the continuing regional metamorphism and folding altered the intrusion itself and so did subsequent migmatisation. The igneous rocks originally varied from olivine--two--pyroxene rocks to olivine-free gabbros and norites but metamorphism caused widespread amphibolisation and amphibole, usually hornblende, but occasionally anthophyllite and cummingtonite, is now a major constituent of all the rocks. The optically determined compositions of the olivine (Fo to Fo), plagioclase (An and An to An) and orthopyroxene (En to En) are given together with ten chemical analyses of rocks and one of a hypersthene, En. Cryptic variation in the Fe content of orthopyroxene and hornblende is shown. Comparison with other ultrabasic bodies in Connemara suggests that there was only one period of ultrabasic intrusion in Connemara.
20494262|Previous research on the Irish Chironomidae is outlined. Prior to this study a total of ninety-nine species was on record. In this survey collections of larvae, pupae and imagines were obtained from eighty locations. One hundred and seventy-four species are identified of which one hundred and seventeen are new Irish records. A taxonomic list of two hundred and sixteen chironomid species known to occur in Ireland, with some notes on their distribution, is given.
20494384|Monthly samples of the painted goby, Pomatoschistus pictus (Malm) were taken, from November 1976 to October 1977, at two shores near Carna, Co. Galway. The species exhibits major growth during its first summer and autumn after which gonad maturation begins. The breeding season lasts from February to June after which the 1-group fish (as determined by scale examination) undergo a period of renewed growth before most of them disappear. Fecundity is correlated with fish size and time of year but shows considerable individual variation. Feeding intensity drops sharply from November to January but rises again during the breeding season. Nearly sixty per cent of the diet is crustacean with harpacticoids and amphipods the most important items. Some seasonal variation in the consumption of food types occurs. There is a considerable similarity with the biology of the sympatrically occurring two-spotted goby, Gobiusculus flavescens.
20494553|A total of eighteen species of mosquito, including the Anopheles maculipennis complex, is recorded from Ireland, of which five-Anopheles algeriensis Theobald, Aedes caspius (Pallas), Aedes dorsalis (Meigen), Aedes punctor (Kirby) and Aedes rusticus (Rossi)--are new. In addition, two doubtful species, Aedes cinereus Meigen and Aedes cantans (Meigen), are confirmed as occurring in Ireland. A lectotype for Aedes (Ochlerotatus) detritus Haliday is designated.
20518988|The Irish leech fauna includes thirteen species, and doubtful records exist for a further two. The distribution of these species at 411 localities throughout Ireland is described in terms of vice-county and 10km-square grid recording schemes. The altitudinal distribution and island records of species are discussed. It is concluded that the leech fauna shows little sign of impoverishment attributable to the post glacial isolation of Ireland. Enigmatic parallels in distribution of leeches and other freshwater macro-invertebrates are outlined and discussed.
20494328|In Drumurcher Townland, Co. Monaghan, Ireland (H 521 172), the re-investigation of an alluvial flat between drumlins of Late Midlandian age showed Nahanagan grey sand and grey muddy silt (C date 10,515  195 BP; pollen-zone III) under early Littletonian brown mud (pollen-zones IVa & IVb). From fossil remains taxa were identified as follows: Vascular plants 90; Mosses 30; Coleoptera 100. Several of the taxa are new to the Irish record. The deposit documents the change-over from the severe conditions of the final lateglacial to postglacial warmth.
20519037|Observations on approximately 1500 joint sets at sixteen localities on the north coast of Co. Antrim and Co. Londonderry reveal the presence of a regional joint system. The major joint sets strike at 350, 330, 290, 270, 240 and 210, with minor faults parallel to such trends. The joint system is ascribed to a tectonic origin, whilst the pattern developed in Carboniferous strata is amenable to a possible mechanical interpretation. An unexpected result of the study is the occurrence of widespread tectonic joint sets in the Eocene basalts. There is little evidence to support the hypothesis that such a joint system was produced by inheritance, and upward propagation of a Pre-Cambrian fracture system in basement.
20518970|Available information on thermal springs in Ireland is given, together with a description of the fauna and flora of one in particular. The species composition and annual variations in the flora of a large permanent spring at Enfield, Co. Meath, are described. Elements of the fauna are enumerated and data on the growth rates of two species are offered. A tentative food chain for the Enfield spring is presented.
20494432|Acetylation of benzyl -d-xylopyranoside with 4 equivalents of acetic anhydride in the presence of anhydrous sodium acetate at room temperature gave the crystalline 2,4(1) and 3,4(2) diacetates of benzyl -d-xylopyranoside together with the 2,3,4-triacetate 3. Detritylation of the crude mixture obtained by selective triphenylmethylation and subsequent acetylation of benzyl -d-mannopyranoside afforded crystalline benzyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--d-mannopyranoside (4, 47%).
20494866|The area of Dalradian rocks under discussion lies at the south-west end of the Ox Mountains and is bound to the south-east by Old Red Sandstone often showing a faulted relationship. The oldest rocks forming the Ox Mountains are overlapped by Carboniferous Limestone on both the north and south sides. The stratigraphy and petrography of the Dalradian indicates a succession belonging essentially to a greywacke sequence comparable to those of the upper part of the Cowal succession of the south-west Highlands of Scotland and the Sperrin Mountains of north-west Ireland. A sequence of metamorphic events has been recognised involving garnet grade of regional metamorphism and culminating in thrust movements from a north-west direction which have brought the succession to lie on top of the main Ox Mountain migmatites and metasediments, in a series of thrust sheets separated by imbricate zones.
20494932|One hundred and ten Charadrii (waders) of 10 different species were examined for helminth parasites between the periods September to March for three years from 1964. A total of 50 helminth species was recorded including 41 new records for Ireland, 15 for Britain and 38 new host records. In addition, a new species of tapeworm belonging to the family Hymenolepididae (Cyclophyllidea) was discovered. The results of the survey are presented as a systematic list of helminths with details of incidence and intensity of infection. This survey is the first investigation into the helminths of wild birds in Ireland since the work of Bellingham (1844). Results dealing with the ecological aspects of this study will be published later.
20518913|Some facts are presented concerning the nature of the sub - Old Red Sandstone surface in Ireland south of a line from Galway to Dublin. It is concluded that the surface behaves regionally as a plane, folded and faulted by Armorican movements. Exceptions to this are a "scarp" feature through the Galty Mountains, and the more lately covered Leinster massif. Otherwise irregularities are on a small, though variable, scale.
20494258|A shelly fauna recovered from the Mweelrea Grits exposed at Uggool on the north side of the entrance to Killary Harbour, County Mayo, includes molluscan and trilobitic fragments and a relatively rich brachiopod assemblage. Seven genera have been recognised, one of which is represented by the new species Rhysostrophia hibernica. This species and other taxa like Eremotoechia, Hesperonomiella, Pleurorthis, Toquimia and Valcourea are strictly diagnostic of the early Ordovician American Province and of the top of the Rhysostrophia subzone of the Whiterock Stage, a time-stratigraphic unit which is applicable to shelly facies within that Province and broadly equivalent to the Upper Arenig, Llanvirn and Lower Llandeilo of the standard succession.
20494295|The four possible stereoisomeric 3-arylmethylene-6-methylthioflavanone epoxides were synthesised and their configurations assigned by means of stereospecific epoxidation of cis-and trans-3-benzylidene-6-methylthioflavanones with sodium hypochlorite and by n.m.r. analyses.
20494945|Trace element data are given for three olivines, seven clino-pyroxenes and five magnetites separated from a Tertiary layered gabbro. One new major element analysis of a clino-pyroxene is included. Also analysed for trace elements are twenty orthomagmatic gabbros, seven basal contaminated gabbros, six hornfelsed Silurian sediments, four hornfelsed basalts, seven granular gabbros formed by incorporation of basalt, and one gabbro which has assimilated limestone. The orthomagmatic gabbros and minerals have sequences of trace element contents which can be correlated with the fractional crystallisation history of the magma. In particular, the Cr/Ni ratio is found to be a sensitive parameter of differentiation. Three of the four layers of the complex show fractionation of the elements with V, Sr and Ba increasing, and Cr, Ni and Co decreasing, with progressive differentiation. The remaining layer (no. 2) shows a slightly different pattern resulting from its relative lack of differentiation.
20494284|Quantitative estimates of mollusc populations at sites in south-west Ireland were related to vegetation and chemical composition of soil and litter using principal coordinates analysis and canonical correlation. The differences in snail fauna between sites was best explained by variation in litter composition especially with regard to nitrogen and calcium.
20518969|The Irish fauna of Tabanoid and Asiloid Diptera, mainly medium to large sized sun-loving flies, is discussed and compared with that of Britain. The impoverishment of the British fauna, more marked in relation to that of Europe than in any other group of Diptera, is reflected in the further reduction of variety found in Ireland. Two of the ten families represented in Britain, the Acroceridae and Xylomyiidae, are entirely absent in Ireland and the entire group can only muster fifty-nine species (of at least 153 known in Britain). The author has found thirty-five species in Ireland but only three were additions to the Irish list and few further additions can now be expected. Following introductory accounts of the families and genera, the distribution within Ireland of each species is summarised and discussed in relation to the climatic, habitat and biological factors involved. Irish specimens have been examined of all but two of the species accepted as Irish and all records in the literature, for which supporting specimens are not available, are critically evaluated.
20494854|The Upper Carboniferous and associated Old Red Sandstone of the area to the south, south-east and south-west of Tipperary town have been re-mapped on the six-inch to the mile scale and a new structural interpretation, involving low and high angle thrusting rather than normal faulting, is suggested to account for the tectonic pattern along the east-west line of the Slievenamuck fault. Broad folding, sinistral tear faults and minor thrusts within the Namurian are described, and, in the absence of fossils, apart from poorly preserved plant fragments and possible gastropod tracks, the Namurian of the area is arbitrarily divided into four major lithological groups as follows:-- 4. Moanour Group (c. 260), 3. Shrough Group (c. 660), 2. Farranacliff Group (c. 690), 1. Lackantedane Group (c. 210). Beds of the lithology of the Clare Shales which succeed to the Carboniferous Limestone of the west of Ireland are absent from this area, the beds in contact with the cherty "D" beds of the Carboniferous Limestone being finely micaceous, olive-green mudstones, shaly mudstones and siltstones, probably in part of R age. Correction of the earlier stratigraphical interpretation and geological mapping of the area is also discussed and incorporated in the accompanying map.
20518897|Information on the range of the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus in south-west Ireland was collected by trapping at 129 sites and from previously published results of trapping. It is thought that mountains and large rivers are the chief barriers to spread. With this in mind the data were interpreted and a probable detailed distribution outlined. The species is confined to Co. Limerick and a large part of both Cos. Cork and Kerry but is also found in small areas of southern Clare and Tipperary. It is unlikely that it is present elsewhere in Ireland.
20519018|The distribution of saxicolous lichens on the east and west aspects of three calcareous substrata in Dublin City has been examined. There are significant differences in both number and cover between the three substrata. A positive correlation between pH and number of species on west-facing walls was found. A substrate corrected "Index of Lichen Abundance" is used to zone the city centre area; a strong negative correlation was found between this index and sulphur dioxide levels. No relationship was found between the index and smoke levels. The relationship between humidity and sulphur dioxide toxicity is discussed in the light of the Atlantic climatic regime of the city. The accumulation of sulphur in the thallus of Xanthoria parietina increases with increased aerial pollution.
20518925|Quantitative plankton samples and related physical and chemical data were obtained from five stations in Strangford Lough during 1968 and 1969. Summer temperatures are higher in the upper lough than nearer the open sea. Salinity is nearly uniform and constant. Seasonal fluctuations of nutrients are closely correlated with diatom growth and decline. A circular water flow in the upper lough appears to affect, and was detected in, some plankton distribution patterns. Turbidity in the lough is high, affecting plankton distribution and delaying algal peak production. Higher temperatures stimulate zooplankton production in the upper lough, in turn affecting primary productivity here. Occasional nannoplankton blooms probably deplete nutrients and cause temporary domination of the plankton by Balanus balanoides nauplii.
20494949|With alteration of temperature the oxygen consumption of animal tissues passes through a sequence of increases and decreases. These increases have been shown to result from the emergence in the order of molecular weight, of a change of state of the normally occurring fatty acids. It has been suggested that the change is the formation of liquid crystals by a conjunction of each fatty acid with a micellar solution of an amphiphilic salt in a sufficient concentration. This crystalline formation is assumed to form a frame holding in close association the oxidising enzymes and the substrate in the mitochondria. It is shown that when sodium salicylate or sodium n-butyrate is added in increasing concentrations to a tissue preparation there is a marked change in the pattern of the relation of oxygen consumption to temperature. There is, with increasing concentration, a marked fall in oxygen consumption until, with relatively high concentrations, the normal pattern re-appears. These two amphiphilic salts have as a common property a short organic chain. It is shown that the influence of chain length on the relation concentration to micellar size is such that if to a solution of a long chain amphiphilic salt of sufficient strength to allow the formation of liquid crystals there be added increasing weights of a short chain salt no liquid crystals can be formed until a relatively high concentration is reached. The parallel with the action of sodium salicylate or of sodium n-butyrate on oxygen consumption is such that a long chain amphiphilic salt must be present in the cell to account for the normal pattern of the relation of oxygen consumption to temperature.
20494329|The antitumour activity of new 2-iminochromene derivatives, prepared from the condensation of 2-hydroxybenzaldehydes with various cyanoacetamide derivatives, is described. The condensation of salicylaldehyde with 1-cyanoacetyl-3,5-dimethylpyrazole is complicated by the tendency towards displacement of the 3,5-dimethylpyrazole residue e.g. in ethanol solution by an ethoxy group; appropriate conditions, however, result in the formation of an isomeric mixture of iminochromene products in which the 3,5-dimethylpyrazole group is retained, together with an added ethoxy group.
20494912|The Carnsore Granite is a porphyritic biotite-adamellite in which feldspars show complex exsolution relationships. Irregular aplitic patches formed prior to dilational aplite veins. Abundant xenoliths in all stages of hornfelsing and metasomatism include gneisses, granulites, amphibolites and metadolerites derived from the adjacent Rosslare Series; microgranite types must be related to an earlier intrusive phase. The orientation of phenocrysts and of discoidal xenoliths, the distribution of granite boulders and blocks, the occurrence of aureole rocks on Tuskar Rock and the results of a geophysical gravity survey all suggest that the granite is very much more extensive than the present landward outcrop. An Rb-Sr age determination using separated biotites suggests that the Carnsore Granite is of L. Palaeozoic age. The Great Saltee Island Granite is briefly described and shown to be an earlier intrusion involved in the metamorphism of the Rosslare Series.
20518899|At Shortalstown Co. Wexford, Ireland, a drainage trench in glacial deposits exposed: (1) Disturbed marine interglacial deposits between a lower and an upper till. The pollen-content suggested that the deposits belonged to the last interglacial. Sediments, macroscopic plant fossils, molluscs, foraminifera and ostracods all suggested deposition in shallow water at the mouth of an estuary. (2) Undisturbed freshwater lateglacial (10,200 B.C.) deposits resting in a small depression in the upper till. Sediments, macroscopic plant fossils and bones of Cervus giganteus were in accord with the C-14 date.
20494889|Certain nitrosopyrazoles and their reduction products have been examined. The latter appear to be azoxy compounds of type IV, whose formation was originally suggested by Sachs and Alsleben (1907). Aromatic nitroso compounds are readily reduced by alkoxide ions to azoxy compounds. There are indications that some nitrosopyrazoles are transformed even by alkanols to the azoxy compounds though the latter could not be obtained crystalline. Presumably the corresponding aldehyde is simultaneously produced. These azoxy compounds have all proved to be inactive against M. tuberculosis both in vitro and in vivo. The nitrosopyrazoles possess considerable antituberculosis activity in vitro, and it seems probable that their failure to show antituberculosis activity in the mouse is due to their ready conversion to azoxy compounds.
20494500|With the objective of obtaining a single partially benzylated sucrose derivative in reasonable and reproducible yield, treatment of sucrose in N,N-dimethylformamide with one molar equivalent of benzyl bromide in the presence of silver oxide at room temperature has been studied. A previous report had suggested that under these conditions sucrose underwent selective monobenzylation (40% overall yield) with the order of reactivity of the hydroxyl groups resulting: 2-OH&gt;3-OH&gt;1-OH&gt;3-OH (ratio 86:10:3:1). Our studies have shown that monobenzylation was achieved in 34% yield with reaction at positions 6-OH&gt;2-OH&gt;1-OH&gt;(?)-OH (ratio 335:305:19:17). The product analysis was carried out by isolation of the mono-O-benzylsucrose fraction, hydrolysis, and t.l.c. and quantitative g.l.c. on the resulting mono-O-benzylmonosaccharides. Previously unreported 1-O-benzyl-d-fructose has been synthesised and characterised.
20518867|No report was drawn up concerning the "Flying Falcon" expedition in 1888. This has led to confusion concerning the numbering and position of nine stations dredged during the cruise. An attempt is made here to retrace the course of the voyage aided by references from published papers and an unpublished manuscript in the National Museum of Ireland.
20494457|The benthic macrofauna of Kinsale Harbour on the south coast of Ireland was qualitatively investigated at 68 sites in 1978. Fifty soft bottom sites were quantitatively sampled in 1979 and 1981. Over 500 species recorded for the area are listed systematically. Stations are grouped on their faunal composition using clustering techniques. The species composition of four identified groups is characterised using the pseudo-F-test. Sediments are categorised using a principal component analysis of the granulometric data and the contribution of sediments to the separation of the faunal assemblages is assessed by multiple discriminant analysis. The soft bottom area is characterised by poorly sorted fine and/or silty sands supporting a fauna of high diversity. The faunal assemblages are related to the Syndosmya (= Abra) alba, Venus striatula and Amphiura filiformis boreal communities that characterise the euhaline zone of many estuarine situations. While there is evidence of assemblage intergradation and mixing, cross-confirmation between the multivariate techniques used affirms the categorisation of faunal and bottom types and supports the strong positive correlations between them.
20518876|A series of total field magnetic surveys covering an area of over 1,000 sq. naut. miles was made in the Malin Sea Area between Donegal and Scotland. Interpretation of the results provides a basis for the deduction of the main geological features of the region and delineates a number of small faults in directions contrasting with the dominant Caledonian trend. Although major faults such as the Great Glen and Leannan faults have little direct magnetic effect in the survey area, a limited series of alternatives for their directions can be assumed. In the case of the Leannan fault, these provide contributory evidence for its suggested movement. In the case of the Great Glen, they indicate a course well north of the Irish coast.
20518941|One hundred and nineteen species of bivalve have been recorded for the shallow (&lt; 45m) waters of Galway Bay and Kilkerrin Bay. These are listed, together with information on habitat preference, depth-ranging within deposit substrates, maximum densities and distributional records for adjacent areas.
20494393|Data from tide gauges at Dublin, Belfast and Malin Head show various trends in annual mean sea- or tide-level over the last sixty-five years. The record from Belfast shows an overall falling trend but application of a nineteen-year filter indicates that most of this fall has occurred since the mid-1950s, possibly as a result of land reclamation in the estuary adjacent to the tide gauge. The Dublin record shows a secular rising trend in mean tide-level, but the data may be split into a rising trend before 1961, and a falling trend thereafter. The Malin Head record is barely adequate for our purposes, but it does show a coherent falling sea-level, possibly indicating the last vestiges of isostatic uplift in Ireland. Coastal geomorphological evidence is hard to reconcile with these relatively slight variations in sea-level, but anomalous stretches of non-eroding and even prograding coast in counties Londonderry and Donegal suggest continuing isostatic uplift on the extreme northern coast.
20518860|Twenty-four species of cirripede from Irish waters are listed, and references given. Irish cirripede specimens in the collections of the National Museum of Ireland are listed and particulars of localities and published data are given where available. Specimens from the Royal Irish Academy Expedition of 1886, the Royal Dublin Society Expeditions of 1890-91 and from the south and south west coasts have been identified and are now published for the first time. A brief indication is given of how representative the collection and previously published records are in relation to the British fauna.
20494954|Derryclare Wood is situated in the Twelve Bens mountain range of Western Ireland. The general floristic and climatic features of the woodland resemble those of the Killarney oakwoods; this resemblance is also apparent in the lichen-flora of both areas. A number of lichen species previously known in Ireland only from the south-west have now been recorded in Derryclare Wood. There are thirty-two additions to the vice-county flora of West Galway (v.-c. H 16), of which three taxa are new to the Irish lichen-flora. Ninety-eight species and seven minor taxa, belonging to forty genera, are recorded from Derryclare Wood. Seven species of fungi parasitic on lichens were found to occur. Six of these have not been previously recorded from Ireland, while one is new to the British Isles and another to the Northern Hemisphere.
20518901|Configurations are assigned to a number of -arylthiocinnamic acids and esters on the basis of their n.m.r. and i.r. spectra. The preparation of 2, 4-diphenyl-1,5-benzothiazepine is reported.
20494475|The modern version of Trouton's Rule states that the standard molar entropies of vaporisation of non-polar quasi-spherical molecular liquids at their boiling points are essentially constant:
20494535|Closo 12-X-1-SeBH{X = Cl, Br, I} were prepared by the reaction of 1-SeBH and X and were characterised by i.r. and B n.m.r. The structure of the iodo-derivative was established by X-ray crystallographic methods. The space group was P2/n with four molecules in a unit cell of dimensions a = 11.636(3), b = 13.358(3), c = 7.346(3). The structure solution was refined by full-matrix least-squares calculations to R = 0.039 for 1231 reflections with I9(I). The Se-B distances were in the range 2.122-2.144, the B-I bond was 2.167(4) and B-B distances in the range 1.741-1.934. Photoelectron spectra of 1-SeBH, 12-Br-1-SeBH and 1-TeBH were measured and are discussed by comparison with corresponding measurements and calculations on thiaboranes, as are the nido systems 7-SeBH and SeBH.
20518930|Palinurus mauritanicus has only once been recorded from Irish waters, as P. thomsoni (Selbie 1914). This specimen, a male, was captured at a depth of about 400 metres lat. 5120N, long. 1130W. The three specimens described in this paper were captured in shallow coastal waters at depths of 25-30 metres. These records are of interest firstly as being the most northerly known distribution of P. mauritanicus and secondly as they occurred in such shallow waters./// On retient une seule mention de Palinurus mauritanicus dans les eaux irlandaises,  savoir Palinurus thomsoni. Ce specimen a t pch  une profondeur d'environ 400 mtres, lat. 5120N, long. 1130W. Les trois specimens dcrits dans ce rapport ont t pchs dans les eaux peu profondes (25 -- 30 mtres) prs de la cte. Ces mentions sont intressantes pour les raisons suivantes: (1) Aucune mention de P. mauritanicus  une si haute latitude n'a jusqu' ici t retenue, autant qu'on puisse savoir. (2) A cause des profondeurs d'eau si peu importantes.
20494485|The naturally occurring fragmentation of lichen thalli, senescence, and the loss of thalline fragments and whole thalli were observed in the Burren region of County Clare, Ireland. Over a period of 26 months, saxicolous and epiphytic individuals underwent often dramatic changes in size and appearance. The importance of these phenomena for the structure and development of lichen-dominated communities is discussed.
20494280|Fragmented specimens of Eunice harassii Audouin and Milne-Edwards, found in Dublin Bay, were unusually large and had a higher maximum number of branchial filaments than recorded for this or other British species of the genus Eunice. Measurements of these and museum specimens show a linear relationship between filament number and setiger width. The Irish specimens come from an area enriched by sewage sludge. This is a new species record for Irish waters.
20494388|Vertical or near vertical cracks containing light-coloured infilled material are common in till along the south coast from Carnsore Point to Hook Head, Co. Wexford. Detailed examination showed that the material within the cracks differed significantly in particle size and free iron content from the surrounding till.
20518955|A detailed petrographic and chemical study of the dolerites, granitic sheets and veins and their mutual contacts has been made on rocks from Barnavave and Cooley Castle quarries in the western part of the Tertiary Carlingford Complex. Comparison with differentiation series from comparable igneous complexes indicates that the dolerites and granites are not genetically related and the intermediate rocks present result from metasomatic or assimilation processes. Four types of dolerite/granite contacts are recognised, two have darkened dolerite margins, one exhibits an indistinct patchy, darkened zone and the fourth does not develop a darkened zone and forms a gradational contact with the granite. The dolerite was intruded first, and the granitic magma filled contraction fractures in it. Heat and volatiles associated with the granite were sufficient to feldspathise and amphibolitise the dolerite and cause hornfelsic recrystallisation along the contact zones.
20494417|This paper on the Ascomycotina (Ascomycetes) is the fourth of the series contributing to an annotated account of fungi recorded in Ireland between 1726 and 1975. When this series of papers has been completed it will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi since that of Adams and Pethybridge.
20518938|Cyclops agilis adult females reared at 10, 15, 20 and 25 show a progressive reduction in cephalothorax length with increasing rearing temperature. No significant differences in cephalothorax length were found between first and second generations, reared at the same temperature. Twenty-six characters were measured in twenty individuals, at each temperature for 1st and 2nd generations. A canonical variate analysis shows that these follow the same trend as cephalothorax length, Thus, small adults reared at a high temperature are miniaturised versions of the larger low temperature reared individuals. A series of experiments in which eggs laid at one and reared at another temperature show that the rearing temperature determines adult size and the temperature at which the eggs are laid has no significant influence. These experiments show also that temperature has no selective effect on the eggs and this, coupled with the very low mortality at 10, 15 and 20, show that the effect of rearing temperature on adult size is a physiological one and is not due to selection.
20518881|Previous work on the zonation of lichens on the sea-shore is summarised and compared with the zonations described by the use of quantitative methods for three shores on the west and north shores of Inishowen. A greater variation in the number of species that may become dominant in the different zones was found than had previously been suspected. The only lichen species to attain dominance in the eulittoral is Lichina pygmea. In the littoral fringe a zone of Verrucaria microsopra is described for the first time occurring below the characteristic band of V. maura in three of the transects. Lichina confinis also belongs to the littoral fringe but like L. pygmea it is almost totally confined to south-facing shores. Lecanora helicopis is the most constant species of the lower supralittoral and is frequently accompanied by L. actophila particularly on exposed shores. Caloplaca marina and Catillaria chalybea may also occur as dominants at this level. Higher in the supralittoral the following species were recorded as dominant or co-dominant in one or more transects: Lecanora atra, Ramalina siliquosa, Anaptychia fusca, Xanthoria parietina and Rhizocarpon obscuratum. The supralittoral terminates where species such as Lecidea subicongrua and L. cyathoides, not primarily restricted to the shore in their distribution, become dominant. Some tentative explanations for the variation of dominants in the supralittoral are advanced.
20494318|3-Carbamoyl-2-iminochromene derivatives condense with ethyl cyanoacetate, forming derivatives of 6-cyano-5-hydroxy-2-imino-3-oxo-3H, 4H-benzopyrano [3, 4-c] pyridine. A competing reaction, involving initial attack at the 2-imino position, yields derivatives of 3-(1-amino-2-cyano-2-ethoxycarbonyl)vinyl coumarin.
20494882|When the extracellular glucose concentration of normal rat kidney slices is between 70 mg. and 110 mg./100 ml. the respiratory quotient covers the full catabolic range within the normally prevailing body temperatures. Above or below these glucose concentrations fat and carbohydrate are burnt only in a fixed proportion. The bearing of this result on the maintenance of a constant blood sugar concentration is discussed. In alloxan diabetic rats a similar result is obtained but the glucose concentration at which free combustion of carbohydrate (or fat) can occur is below the normal blood sugar concentration.
20494396|Thinozercon michaeli Halbert is redescribed with emphasis on its main distinctive morphological features. The genus Thinozercon is shown to be a member of the suborder Uropodina, and to be closely related to the genus Protodinychus Evans which is considered the least specialized member of the Uropodina. These two genera are included in the superfamily Thinozerconoidea. T. michaeli, on the basis of some unique characteristics, is placed in the family Thinozerconidae Halbert, which is redefined. At present T. michaeli is only known from Ireland and is probably an endemic species adapted to a sandy intertidal habitat, which is under little pressure from competition. /// Thinozercon michaeli Halbert est redcrit en insistant sur ses caractristiques morphologiques principales. On montre que le genre Thinozercon appartient au sous-ordre des Uropodina et qu'il est voisin du genre Protodinychus Evans, qui peut tre considr comme l'Uropodide connu le moins spcialis. Ces deux genres sont inclus dans la superfamille des Thinozerconoidea. Sur la base de certains de ses caractres morphologiques exclusifs, T. michaeli justifie le maintien de la famille des Thinozerconidae Halbert, dont les caractristiques sont redfinies. Actuellement, T. michaeli est seulement connu de l'Irlande, c'est donc probablement une espce endmique, qui se caractrise par son adaptation  la zone intertidale sableuse, habitat  faible pression de comptition.
20494533|The equilibria, kinetics and mechanisms of the complex formation reactions of nickel(II) and copper(II) with 1-phenyl-1,3-butanedione (Hpbd) have been investigated in methanol: water (70: 30 v/v) solution at 25C and an ionic strength of 0.5mol dm NaClO. A detailed mechanism is proposed to account for the kinetic data. In terms of the proposed mechanism Ni and Cu react with the enol tautomer of Hpbd with rate constants of 3.21 and 5.03  10dm mol s respectively, while they react with the enolate ion with rate constants of 2.7  10 and 3.2  10dm mol s respectively.
20518946|Evidence is presented which demonstrates that a Tertiary dyke of at least 70km in length is present in the extreme south-west of Ireland, a region generally regarded as being free from the effects of volcanicity of this age.
20494487|The biology of the shore clingfish or Cornish sucker Lepadogaster lepadogaster (Bonnaterre, 1788) was investigated between July 1985 and September 1987. A total of 129 fish were captured at Inishbofin, Co. Galway, off north-west Connemara, on the west coast of Ireland. The fish were located on sheltered rocky shores at approximately mid-tide level amongst small, flat, seaweed-covered rocks. The population was composed of four year classes. The life-span of the shore clingfish was short and no animal entered its fifth year of life. Individual growth was rapid, particularly in the first two years. There was no deviation from the expected 1: 1 sex ratio. Mature fish were recorded in their second year of life (1+), when they were at least 39mm in total length (T.L.). Fish &lt;38mm (T.L.) were immature. The shore clingfish is a carnivore, the diet consisting mainly of amphipods, gastropods, decapods and copepods.
20494526|Activation of [Fe(CO)] with trimethylamine N-oxide in the presence of acetonitrile affords the labile species [Fe(CO) (MeCN)] The latter reacts with bis[bis(trimethylsilyl)]methyl]tin at low temperature to afford the tetranuclear cluster [FeSn-(CO)(SnR)] {R=CH(SiMe)}. This molecule has a structure, determined by a single-crystal analysis, unique in tetranuclear Fe/Sn clusters, with Fe-Fe interactions. Without prior activation, the parent carbonyl reacts, but at higher temperatures, to give a trinuclear cluster, previously formulated as [Fe(CO)(-SnR)].
20518888|A method is described for the determination of chlorate ion when present in a large excess of bromide or iodide ions. The halide ions are precipitated with silver acetate, and the chlorate ion is detected spectrophotometrically using Eger's method (1955).
20494531|A vibrational analysis has been carried out on both syn- and anti-conformations of N-sulphinylimide, H-N=S=O. A simple on-diagonal force field is used, the validity of which was established by comparison with a normal coordinate analysis for DNSO. The potential energy distributions show that the N=S and S=O stretching modes are coupled. The pseudo-asymmetric N=S=O stretching mode of predominantly N=S character occurs at higher wavenumber than the pseudo-symmetric N=S=O mode of predominantly S=O character. The N=S and S=O bond orders are evaluated.
20494274|Comparison is made between the uptake of C and oxygen evolution as methods for measuring photosynthetic rates in Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland, over a seasonal period (1971-2). Rates were similar for both methods at different light intensities, except on two occasions (8.ii.72, 20.iv.72) when C rates were depressed to a greater extent than oxygen rates at high light intensities. This was at a time of possible phosphate limitation. The determination of a carbon dioxide uptake/oxygen evolution ratio is often made unreliable, due to the difficulty in correctly assessing the importance of possible sources of error which currently basets the application of the C technique, but a preliminary figure of unity for most times of the year is suggested. The highest value was 1.7 on 29.vii.71.
20494939|Part I. Food. The food of the fox Vulpes vulpes was studied by exhaustive analysis of the stomach contents of 549 adults and 291 cubs and by examination of food remains outside twenty-three earths. Possible sources of error are indicated. Seasonal variation in the food is outlined. The differences between the diet of cubs and adults are discussed and the data compared with those derived from similar studies in Great Britain. Only 10% of guts were empty in one winter investigated, suggesting that there was no shortage of food. The diet is clearly one of a, primarily carnivorous, gastronomic opportunist. Part II. Reproduction. The reproduction of the fox was investigated over a period of two years by exhaustive examination of some 600 carcasses. The seasonal variation in the weights of the gonads and the onset of germ cell production are recorded in detail. The breeding season was determined from the enlargement of the glans penis in males, from ovulation and presence of sperm in the reproductive tracts of females and, indirectly, by assessing the age of embryos. The whelping season was also determined. Changes in the genitalia of the vixens during reproduction are described. Full data were obtained on numbers and distribution between uteri of embryos, placental scars and corpora lutea. The sex ratio is recorded. Foxes bred between 4 January and 15 February but the majority between 7 January and 8 February. A mean of 4.45 embryos were found in vixens forty days or more pregnant but 10% of females were barren. This is in contrast with results from Great Britain where the breeding season is apparently later, litter size smaller and fewer vixens produce young. Part III. Form, growth and development. This study was based on the examination of the bodies of 488 adult foxes and 254 cubs. Data were accumulated from adults on the lengths of: head and body, tail, hindfoot and ear, on the seasonal variation in weight and on the appearance and moult of the pelage. Similar observations were made on cubs and the developmental changes noted. The results are discussed and the periods of time taken for the various stages of growth deduced.
20518919|The standing stock of macrofauna was investigated on seven sandy beaches. Approximately fifty species comprising over 13,000 individuals were identified and counted. Grain size, water and organic contents of the sands were analysed and the depth of the "black layer" taken as a measure of the degree of oxygenation. Comparisons of the beaches showed that wave action plays a major role in defining the composition of the beach fauna. Crustaceans dominated the exposed beaches, the proportions of polychaetes and molluscs increasing with moderating exposure. Sheltered beaches had the greatest biomass and species diversity. Molluscs, although numerically few, made up the bulk of the biomass. Crustaceans, on the other hand, contributed little to the biomass whilst polychaetes were intermediate both in terms of weight and density. The value of biological and physical indicators of exposure is discussed. Results are briefly compared with those found by previous investigators for other sandy beaches.
20494387|The metasediments of the Lissoughter area form part of the Lower and Middle Dalradian succession of Connemara, and include rocks from the lowest stratigraphical horizons exposed in the region. Despite considerable structural attenuation a stratigraphical succession may be recognised and a formal stratigraphical sequence for the lower half of the Connemara Dalradian is outlined here. The succession is similar to that of M. E. Badley (1976, "J. Geol. Soc. London" 132, 509-20) but includes the further division of the Boulder Bed and Streamstown Formations into two members each. The rocks were metamorphosed to sillimanite grade, and the pelitic and semi-pelitic units contain abundant locally derived partial melt granites. Three major deformation episodes, D to D, each of which may be correlated regionally, are recognised in the Lissoughter area. The macroscopic F folds which pass through the Lissoughter area repeatedly fold the D Lissoughter Antiform, a major nappe structure which closes and youngs everywhere towards the south and which may be genetically related to the Tay Nappe. These F folds are part of large-scale nappe structures, the upper parts of which outcrop in the Knockpashee-more Synformal Complex of north Connemara. The Lissoughter area lies on the north edge of the 'steep belt' of central Connemara. The spatial position of this belt of vertically dipping rocks which form the northern part of the F nappe root zone is probably the result of tightening and overfolding during the D episode. The F root zone, which includes the southern extension of the Renvyle-Boffin slide, is probably centred along an axis that passes through the injected rocks of the Cashel area which will have been plastic prior to deformation.
20494337|Sediments of pelitic and siliceous, dolomitic limestone compositions have been metasomatically altered, in two stages, in the exogenous contact-zone of the Blind Rock dolerite dyke, Co. Donegal. Application of published experimental data shows that the load pressure in the contact-zone was around 500 bars. The first stage of metamorphism took place at a temperature of between 750 and 820C in the presence of a binary HO-CO fluid phase in which the mole fraction of CO was restricted between 0.1 and 0.4, and produced assemblages containing biotite, diopside, grossular, andradite, hydrogrossular, orthoclase, plagioclase, wollastonite, sphene, pyrrhotite and magnetite. The second stage of metamorphism took place at around 220C in the presence of CO-free fluid phase of alkaline nature and minerals such as analcite, apophyllite, clinoptilolite, hydromica, serpentine and thomsonite were developed in the rocks of the first stage.
20494935|Two Pre-Cambrian units outcrop in Co. Wexford south-east of the Carboniferous outcrop. One--the Rosslare Complex--is interpreted as the basement of the second--the Ballycogly Group (Monian). Pre-Monian metamorphism of the Complex formed amphibolite facies assemblages in semi-pelitic and hornblendic metasediments, granitic gneisses and orthoamphibolites; feldspar augen, pegmatites and late muscovite porphyroblasts also developed. Later, dyke-swarms were intruded, followed by the deposition of the Ballycogly Group. All these were involved in low-grade metamorphism and polyphase folding associated with the Monian orogeny which caused the production of belts of retrogressive mylonites, blastomylonites and mylonite-gneisses in the basement. In the north, cataclasis is related to late thrusting. The area is traversed by N-S tear-faults and major Caledonoid faults, and was overlain by unmetamorphosed Ordovician sediments.
20494379|Previous published, unpublished and new records of Stenogramme interrupta have been examined and the existing distribution of the species on the Irish coast is presented in detail. The distribution of the species in Britain and elsewhere in Europe is summarised. Among the very early records examined was one undescribed specimen collected in Cork harbour as early as 1836. In situ observations of the ecology with relation to exposure, substrate, current and depth-range are reported. Illustrated variations of the morphology are included.
20519057|The algal flora of ten peat sites at Maam, Co. Galway was studied. These had been treated with various combinations of calcium carbonate, calcium sulphate, amonium sulphate, phosphates, copper sulphate and potassium chloride fertilisers to assess the effects of these fertilisers in changing the composition of peat flora and in increasing algal numbers in the soil. Almost all of the treatments resulted in increases in algal numbers in the peat. However, no significant changes in the composition of the algal population were noted. The recolonisation of inverted peat plots by algae was studied and it was found that there was a trend towards complete reversion to the original flora and there was no evidence of specific pioneer algae. The results indicate that whilst fertilisers may change for a time the abundance of certain algal forms, the overall effect on the composition of the algal population is not great and is relatively short-lived.
20494355|Since the Cu chelates of 1,2-bisthiosemicarbazones (relatively well-known) are involved in their anti-tumour activity, some transition metal complexes of 1,4-, 1,5- and 1,6-bisthiosemicarbazones were prepared for biological study. The scope of complex formation is limited. Cu readily gave chelates of 1,5-bisthiosemicarbazones in neutral solution, but not of 1,4- or 1,6-. Ni, Zn and Cd were much less selective but required more vigorous, alkaline conditions. Mn and Fe gave no positive results and Co only with the 1, 5-bisthiosemicarbazone having an all-carbon chain. These complexes are of 2:1 type (N-N-C-S/metal ratio) and the structures are probably tricyclic, analogous to those established for 1,2- and 1,4-derivatives; the thiosemicarbazone functions do not react in isolation to form 1:1 complexes. The u.v. spectra are of two types, Co, Ni and Cu producing a single intense peak in the 250-300nm region and Zn and Cd two. All chelates have a sharp i.r. band about 1600cm.
20518980|Botanical studies in Ireland in the seventeenth century were almost exclusively floristic. The first published records of Irish plants appeared in 1650, but no further progress was made in the study of the flora until the last decade of the century; in 1696, in the second edition of his Synopsis, John Ray incorporated such information relating to the flora of Ireland as had been already published, or communicated to him. An account of plants observed in the north-west of the country in 1700 is provided from a MS source.
20494924|The energy and nitrogen balance of the albino mouse was estimated during the maximal growth period. Energy budgets were constructed for the periods 25-35, 35-45 and 45-55 days of age, with reference to the energy relations of three skeletal muscles (biceps brachii, tibialis anterior and a caudal extensor). The variation in energy and nitrogen extraction efficiencies, together with the energy cost of protein deposition, were calculated for these growth periods. The results are compared with those from animals of agricultural importance.
20494477|The committee for Quaternary Research in Ireland was appointed by the Royal Irish Academy in 1933 with Robert Lloyd Praeger as chairman and Anthony Farrington as secretary. The committee's invitation to Knud Jessen of Copenhagen to carry out investigations into the history of Irish vegetation led to the identification of late-glacial deposits in Ireland for the first time. Jessen also discovered interglacial deposits and investigated the history of Irish forests during the Holocene. His meticulous laboratory and field studies and the work of his pupil G. F. Mitchell set standards and founded traditions in Quaternary research in Ireland which have continued to bear fruit to this day.
20494372|From measurements on eighty-three bodies and 128 skulls it is evident that there is a cline in the size of the Irish stoat Mustela erminea hibernica, animals in the south being rather larger than those in the north.
20519055|Stream sediment samples taken at a sampling density of one sample per square mile in a 900 sq mile (2,300 sq km) area of central Ireland were analysed for fifteen elements. Results for potassium, chromium, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, molybdenum and lead are presented in single element geochemical maps. Analytical data for all elements studied are presented in tabular form accompanied by a sample site map. Stream sediment levels and soil levels were correlated in selected areas. Element distribution patterns obtained were also related to local geology and glaciation. Areas with differing levels of potassium were clearly delineated and were related to the underlying rock formations and glaciation. Much of the area had potentially toxic levels of molybdenum. A number of instances of coincident high levels of metals occurred suggesting possible mineralisation, and an area some five miles (8 km) south-west of Trim appeared especially interesting. Two extensive areas with high levels of nickel and chromium were delineated. The correlation between stream sediment and soil levels was unsatisfactory for some elements in certain limestone areas where stream sediments contained high carbonate content relative to soils. Rock analyses showed that high potassium, titanium, chromium, manganese and gallium occurred in Silurian shales. Some black shale strata occurring in the Namurian and some limestone formations had high levels of titanium, chromium, nickel, copper and molybdenum. The Lower Avonian shales and sandstones had high potassium titanium and manganese levels. Limestones generally had low levels of the elements studied.
20494268|McLachlan's procedure for calculating spin densities in hydrocarbon radicals is examined and applied to various types of radicals. The results are compared with those calculated by other methods involving different levels of approximation. The agreement with Pople and Nesbet calculations for some radicals but not for others, is duscussed.
20519027|An account is given of the history and development of mycology and plant pathology in Ireland since the first traceable mention of Irish fungi in the scientific sense by Caleb Threlkeld in 1726. It shows how before 1900 most of the work done was carried out by enthusiastic amateurs, many of whom were medical men, priests or ministers, who added considerably to the known fungus flora. Growing enlightenment followed upon the discovery by Anton de Bary towards the close of the nineteenth century that fungi could be active parasites and that potato blight was caused by a microscopic parasitic fungus. The study of mycology and plant pathology became an important part of the work of the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction upon its inception in 1900 and it can be said that 1900-1920 marked a period of research and development in experimental plant pathology in Ireland without equal in the British Isles and probably much further afield. After the political division of the country in 1920 the work from then onwards was vigorously pursued in both Southern and Northern Ireland. Plant virology occupied the main attention in Southern Ireland where the work done was soon to lay claim to international distinction, especially with reference to virus diseases of the potato and the role played by them in preventing the production of healthy seed. In Northern Ireland specialist attention was given more to the study and successful control of fungal crop diseases, many of which were limiting the production of full crops of high quality produce. Towards the present day the efforts in both north and south have become better balanced, more equal attention being given to both mycology and virology owing largely to the increased number of workers and better facilities provided. Apart from the work being undertaken by Departments of Agriculture more is now being done in the universities for the purpose of adding to our fundamental knowledge of these so often inconspicuous microscopic organisms which play an ever increasing part in our daily life whether by attacking crops, livestock or ourselves with much resultant discomfiture or by behaving as such beneficiaries in giving us yeasts and antibiotics. The role of the British Mycological Society in ministering uncomplainingly to the needs of systematic mycology in Ireland must not be overlooked. Ever since 1898 when the second annual meeting of the Society was held in Dublin its effect can be seen in its assisting quietly whenever requested or needed. The work includes a bibliography of some 1350 titles which it is believed, with as few exceptions as possible, includes reference to all publications of any importance dealing with the study of mycology and plant pathology in Ireland since 1726.
20519010|Derivatives of pyridazine and benzodiazines have been found to possess growth-inhibitory properties against HeLa cells in vitro and experimental tumours in mice. The anticancer activity of an azoxypyrazole derivative is also described.
20518854|Three granite plutons have been mapped, and subdivided into a number of facies. Two plutons, Inish and Omey, are predominantly biotite hornblende adamellites, while the Letterfrack body is a biotite granodiorite. Twentyfive granite samples have been chemically analysed for thirty elements, and eighteen K feldspars for twentytwo elements. The major and minor element geochemistry supports the field data. Of particular interest is the rubidium content, which varies from normal to enriched, and a comparison with the granites of Carna and Screeb indicates a steady increase westwards, supporting a common and magmatic origin. The granite potash feldspars are deficient in soda, which may be due to a metasomatic paragenesis. Microcline is characteristic of the adamellites and orthoclase of the granodiorites. The origin of the rather prominent "igneous" xenoliths and biotite screens is explained. The Omey pluton appears to have crystallised from the edge inwards with the centrally placed Island granite representing a late stage acid residuum. Using the water vapour pressure diagram after Bowen and Tuttle (1958), the relative depths of emplacement of the various granites have been designated. The field characters of the granites together with their levels have been applied to the zones of Buddington (1959), showing that the Letterfrack granodiorite belongs to the epizone, whereas the adamellites typify the mesozone. A brief account is given of the hornfelsing.
20494311|Novel heterogeneous binuclear dithiocarbamate complexes of the type
20518963|The growth of Bacillus polymyxa and the effects of nitrogen and other factors on the production of extracellular amylase and protease was investigated. Growth and enzyme production in the extract alone was poor. Various nitrogen and inorganic salts were added to the peat extract and their effects on enzyme production determined. Peptone was shown to be the most suitable nitrogenous material for enzyme production. When added to a peat extract-starch-calcium chloride medium, skimmed milk powder (1% W/V) gave 10% more protease but only about 20% of the cell yield compared with that obtained with peptone. Amylase production dropped by 64%. The nature of the peptone used had a significant effect on both amylase and protease yields. B. polymyxa showed a broad initial pH range of 59 to 70 for protease production. Enzyme production paralleled growth of the bacterium and reached a maximum towards the end of the exponential phase of growth. Of the inorganic ions tested, calcium alone gave increased yields of amylase and protease when added to a peat extract-starch-peptone medium. Maximum amylase production was obtained with an initial pH of 68. This dropped to 59 during the early part of the fermentation and then rose subsequently to 69 to 70. Maximum enzyme activity was detected in the medium only in the latter stages of the growth cycle when the pH had risen towards neutrality. Increase in yields as a result of the addition of peat extract to a starch-peptone-calcium chloride medium was shown to be 73% in relation to biomass, 350% in relation to the starch degrading enzyme and 30% with respect to protease.
20494335|The population size of various stages of a complex parasitic life cycle are formulated in a matrix model. A simple Leslie matrix is not sufficient to describe transitions and a transition matrix consisting of interacting Leslie matrices is therefore introduced. The model is applied to the life-cycle of the parasite Fasciola hepatica responsible for liver fluke disease in sheep and cattle. The formulation takes into consideration the important biological stages of parasitic development. Special consideration is also given to climatic features, typical of those areas where the disease is prevalent in Britain and Ireland, by making the transition matrix time dependent. The properties of the matrices used in the model are investigated mathematically and the model's value is demonstrated by a simulation of the life expectancy of a theoretical sheep population under various available control strategies such as flukicides and molluscicides. The model is potentially useful for the control of many other parasitic diseases of people and animals.
20494859|A STUDY was made of the food consumed by over 1,000 trout (Salmo trutta, L.) and perch (Perca fluviatilis, L.) caught by netting in the Poulaphouca Reservoir, Co. Wicklow, Ireland. Trout took a far wider variety of food types than the perch. Three of the four main diet items of the perch were also eaten by trout in considerable quantity. In all three cases the perch tended to eat much more of these than the trout. An experiment with a captive perch supported the idea that this species actively discriminates against certain food types such as gastropod molluscs. It was concluded that the perch prevented the trout from obtaining a full supply of necessary foodstuffs.
20494373|John Desmond Bernal was born in 1901 in Nenagh, Co. Tipperary where his father owned a pleasant house and farm. He grew up passionately interested both in science of all kinds, which he studied in Cambridge, and also, widely, in other fields of learning and the arts, in socialism and in problems of peace and war. The influences of his early life and ideas can be traced in his life's work in all these fields and particularly in his studies of structure in biology, chemistry and physics, which have led to many of the major advances of our times, in theory and for practically useful ends.
20494344|The topographical features of the shores in the immediate vicinity of the recently established field laboratory at Finavarra, County Clare, are briefly described. Annotated lists of benthic species of Rhodophyta, Phaeophyta and Chlorophyta are given.
20494868|Phycoerythrins and phycocyanins have been isolated and characterised from eight species of cryptomonads (Division Cryptophyta, Class Cryptophyceae, Order Cryptomonadales). Their absorption spectral characteristics are compared with those of previously described cryptomonad biliproteins. Fluorescence spectra of cryptomonad biliproteins are recorded for the first time. Denaturation and hydrolysis studies of phycocyanins from cryptomonads indicate that they contain two dissimilar coloured prosthetic groups, or chromophores, one of which has been identified with the pigment of C-phycocyanin.
20519044|The Irish fauna of the dipterous families Fanniidae and Muscidae is listed for the first time in a composite form. No species is accepted as Irish unless we have seen authentic Irish specimens. Seventy-one species are published as Irish for the first time bringing the total of certainly Irish species to 182. Following introductory remarks on the genera, the distribution of each species in Ireland is summarised and there is some discussion of how this is correlated with climatic, habitat and biological factors. In those genera where sufficient information is available the British and Irish faunas are compared.
20518983|A sequence of 2,322m (7,620ft) of strata belonging to the Cork Beds (Upper Devonian-Lower Carboniferous) conformably succeeds the Old Red Sandstone along the south coast of Dummanus Bay. The succession comprises four formations. The lowest is the Toe Head Formation (835m), a cyclic sand-dominated sequence probably deposited under coastal plain conditions, which is overlain by the Old Head Sandstone Formation (361m) indicative of nearshore and shoreline deposition. The overlying Kinsale Formation (1,065m) begins with a marine incursion, but records a general upward progression from nearshore to offshore tidal-influenced environments. Only the lowest part of the Reenydonagan Formation (61m seen) is exposed in the core of the Dunmanus Syncline, but these beds show an upward change from neritic carbonate deposition to starved basin conditions. New palynological data indicate an Upper Famennian to Tournaisian age for the Cork Beds in this sequence. The position of the Dunmanus succession within the regional stratigraphic and palaeogeographic framework is briefly discussed.
20494480|In assessing the diet of owls in the British Isles by pellet analysis, the differences in the average sizes of prey species are normally offset by correction factors, which are essentially conjectural. Correction factors for pellets of the barn owl Tyto alba in Ireland are investigated here on an empirical basis. The available methods of assessing the sizes of birds and brown rats Rattus norvegicus are reconsidered. Similar methods are developed for the remaining mammalian prey and for the frog Rana temporaria. Regression equations from reference material were fitted to plots of dentary length (or length of pelvic girdle for frog)  body weight to obtain mean body weights from bones recovered from castings. After considering seasonal and local variation, and attaching confidence limits to the results, possible sources of error and the limitations of the system are discussed. A new series of correction factors is thus provided.
20494517|The solubility product of silver chloride has been measured in 5% and 20% (w/w) propan-1-ol--water mixtures and the free energies of transfer of silver chloride from water to the mixed solvents were calculated from these values. Combination of these data with free energies of transfer of LiCl, NaCl, CsCl and HCl allowed analysis of the extent of steric hindrance to the cation solvation in the propan-1-ol solvent systems. It is found that steric hindrance in the cation-solvent complexes formed with propan-1-ol is significant for Li, Na and Cs. This is similar to the result obtained previously for the complexes formed with t-butanol. It is proposed that the extent of steric hindrance to the formation of the cation-solvent complexes in these media results from the constraints imposed on the orientation and geometry of the complexed propan-1-ol molecules.
20494476|Spectral reflectance values for bare soils obtained during the SPOT simulation campaign over counties Antrim and Armagh in May 1984 are analysed. These reflectance values were recorded in widely scattered fields. Groups derived from cluster analysis had spatial patterns which could be associated with solid geology, types of glacial till and fluvio-glacial gravels. It is suggested that in Northern Ireland satellite remote sensing data may be an aid in reconnaissance soil surveys and additionally in mapping glacial and fluvio-glacial deposits.
20518953|A measured sequence of 1,388 metres of Devonian--early Carboniferous strata occurs in the Whitegate area of south Co. Cork. Three major lithostratigraphical units are recognised. These are, in ascending order, the Glengarriff Harbour Group (Upper Devonian-Lower Carboniferous), the Ringabella Group (Lower Carboniferous) and an informal unit termed "Knoll-Form Bank and Off-Bank Limestones". The lowermost formation of the Glengarriff Harbour Group in this area, the silt-dominant West Cork Sandstone Formation of non-marine facies, is subdivided into two members on the relative development of sandstones. The overlying Coomhola Formation consists of a sequence of grey and light green sandstones, siltstones and mudstones, its base being marked by the first incursion of heterolithic bedding. The lowest formation of the succeeding Ringabella Group is the Garryvoe Conglomerate Formation, a unit containing pebbly sandstones. This formation is overlain by the Kinsale Formation, a sequence of dark grey mudstones. The carbonate unit consists of crinoid biomicrites and "Bank" limestone with sparry calcite infillings, and either overlies or occurs partly as a lateral equivalent of the Kinsale Formation due to facies changes. K to Z zonal assemblages have been obtained from both the Garryvoe Conglomerate Formation and the Kinsale Formation.
20494438|Pleurobrachia pileus Mller from Galway Bay is a voracious and miscellaneous feeder with a preference for crustaceans, especially copepods. Other food, if available, is ingested during shortages in the copepod supply. The predator-prey relationship between P. pileus and the copepods is one of interdependence. The removal of 70% or more of the copepods from the bay can be effected during the peak abundance of P. pileus. The consequent inadequate food supply may have contributed to the rapid decline in numbers of Pleurobrachia. Up to 70% of P. pileus sampled in Galway Bay have empty guts, suggesting that they may be starved much of the time. Large ctenophores ingest more food and there are fewer large than small specimens with empty guts. Relatively large prey, such as the larv of euphausiids, decapods and fish, are only ingested by the larger ctenophores. It is suspected that larval P. pileus may have different feeding habits.
20519064|Phosphoglucomutase, aspartate aminotransferase, phosphoglucose isomerase and lactate dehydrogenase isozymes were investigated in tissue extracts from naturally-occurring hybrids between three Irish freshwater fish species, rudd, Scardinius erythrophthalmus, roach, Rutilus rutilus, and common bream, Abramis brama, using starch gel electrophoresis. Zymograms of the majority of the hybrids exhibited the isozymes of both parents, with additional isozymes being present in the case of multimeric enzymes. These results demonstrated the genetic intermediacy of F1 cyprinid hybrids. Two specimens were identified as F1 X parental backcrosses on the basis of electrophoretic analysis. The value of electrophoretic methods for confirming the identity of suspected inter-specific hybrids and backcrosses is discussed.
20494509|Difluoro and diphenyl boron chelates of 2-(1H-heteroarylidene)-1H-indene-1,3(2H)-diones (e.g. pyrophthalone and quinophthalone) were prepared, the former by an unusual method of treating the BF adduct with an amine base. Some of the chelates were converted to their thioxo analogues, and the silica catalysed oxidation of the monothiopyrophthalone chelate, yielding an intermediate sulphine, was examined The Baeyer-Villiger oxidation of this chelate to an isocoumarin difluoroboron chelate was also observed.
20518959|The reaction of 1-acyl-4-alkylthiosemicarbazide derivatives with hydrazine is described. 1-Ethoxycarbonylacetyl-4-methylthiosemicarbazide is converted directly to 5-carbazoylmethyl-4-methyl-1,2,4-triazoline-3-thione but 1-ethoxycarbonylacetyl-4-ethylthiosemicarbazide yields 1-(2-carbazoyl)acetyl-4-ethylthiosemicarbazide, which is readily cyclised by sodium hydroxide.
20518968|Distribution records are presented for the 149 species of Syrphidae (hover-flies) now known from Ireland. The syrphid faunas of Ireland and Great Britain are compared and it is suggested that the land-use history of Ireland has been a major factor in determining the present constitution of the Irish syrphid fauna. The notes on each genus incorporate previously unpublished data on habitat preferences and flight habits, together with notes on the determination of species which are difficult to identify.
20494491|Two novel polyether macrocycles are readily synthesised by heating 2(3-hydroxyphenoxy) ethyl p-toluene sulphonate with potassium tert.-butoxide in tert.-butanol. Other conditions and substrates have been investigated but are less successful.
20494941|A swarm of Caledonian dolerites, comprising several hundred individual sheet intrusions, is centred on the Tallaght hills area of south-west County Dublin. The igneous material was introduced along tensional openings controlled by existing structure, and in the central portion of the swarm may equal or exceed the host-rock in volume. The swarm developed after a first--post-Silurian--deformation of the region: after its emplacement a second phase of deformation, accompanied by granite intrusion, occurred. The dolerites are uniform throughout, with widespread, low-temperature, auto-metamorphic, phenomena developing saussurite-uralite assemblages within, and an adinole metasomatism around, the intrusions. Because of their general uniformity, the common presence of gabbroic autoliths of similar mineralogy to the dolerites, and the supporting evidence from geophysical sources, it is felt that the proximate origin of the dolerite was in a magma chamber not far below the present level of exposure of the swarm.
20494401|Irradiation of 3,4,5,6-tetrafluorophthalonitrile in dichloromethane in the presence of anthracene leads to formation of 9-(3,5,6-trifluoro-1,2-dicyanophenyl) anthracene. With phenanthrene an analogous reaction occurs. 3,4,5,6-Tetrachlorophthalonitrile reacts similarly with these aromatic hydrocarbons. A mechanism, involving (i) electron transfer, (ii) radical ion coupling and (iii) loss of hydogen halide, is proposed to account for biaryl formation in these reactions.
20494869|It has been shown that (a) the oxygen consumption of isolated tissues exhibits with changing temperature a series of increases and decreases; that (b) the R.Q. tends to vary with these changes, low values of R.Q. being associated with high values of oxygen consumption; that (c) these changes depend upon the surface activity of the homologous series of fatty acids and appear to result from an amphiphilic binding of fatty acids and oxidising enzymes in liquid crystalline form in the mitochondria; and that (d) the variations in R.Q. are suppressed by large doses of insulin. It is now shown that if slices of the kidneys of rats treated with insulin are immersed for a preliminary period in cold Ringer solutions containing various concentrations of glucose the fixation of the R.Q. is interrupted by a zone of wide oscillations at a concentration of glucose which is higher the greater the dose of insulin. A similar result is obtained by substituting for the glucose the peptising substances glycerol or ethylene glycol. This suggests that the change of R.Q. from 0.7 to 1.0 is a result of the release of the oxidising enzymes from the mitochondria as a consequence of a peptising effect. This facilitates the oxidation of the end products of anaerobic glycolysis. The bearing of these results on the theory of the action of insulin is considered.
20519058|The lithostratigraphy of the Lower Palaeozoic succession of an extensive area of south-east County Wexford is described. Three groups, ten formations and three members are defined, involving a total stratigraphical thickness of at least 10km. A number of important stratigraphical boundaries are described. Lithostratigraphical correlations with nearby areas are discussed. The sediments examined consist of deposits from grain flows, proximal and distal turbidites, contourites and fluxoturbidites, whereas the volcanics comprise andesitic and rhyolitic flows with subaerial or shallow submarine volcaniclastics. A gradual shallowing depositional environment is postulated. Palaeocurrent data indicate predominant lateral erosive and depositional currents flowing from a source area lying to the south-east during pre-Caradoc times. The palaeocurrent trend changed noticeably in Caradoc times. The stratigraphical evolution of the area is discussed in the light of the available evidence.
20494473|Nineteen species of stonefly are recorded in Ireland: Brachyptera risi, Amphinemura sulcicollis, Nemoura avicularis, N. cinerea, Nemurella pictetii, Protonemura meyeri, P. praecox, Leuctra fusca, L. hippopus, L. inermis, Capnia atra, C. bifrons, Diura bicaudata, Isoperla grammatica, Perlodes microcephalus, Dinocras cephalotes, Perla bipunctata, Chloroperla tripunctata, Siphonoperla torrentium. However, records are lacking from south-east Galway, Offaly, Fermanagh, Tyrone and Londonderry, and whether or not P. microcephalus is extant in Ireland is unknown. Notes on their abundance, emergence periods, presence in the diet of fish, and identification are presented. The Irish stonefly fauna is compared with that of mainland Europe, Britain, the Isle of Man and the Orkney Islands. The absence of Taeniopteryx nebulosa from, and widespread distribution of S. torrentium in, Ireland are noted. In contrast to mainland Europe, the Irish stonefly fauna has survived the twentieth century well. The conservation of populations of C. atra, D. bicaudata and D. cephalotes is considered desirable, and the value of monitoring the distribution of stoneflies is discussed.
20494449|The development and hatching rate of the eggs of Protonemura meyeri Pictet were investigation at five constant water temperatures ranging between 55 and 30C. A curvilinear response (
20494303|An account of investigations into the extent and effects of emission of lead by some industries in the Dublin area is presented. Lead levels in rainwater, air and soil samples were found to be higher in the vicinity of the sources of emission than at other sites. A number of fruit and vegetable samples grown in the neighbourhood of the emission sources were analysed and some were found to have excessive levels of lead. Blood lead levels of a number of adults and urine lead levels and urine  - aminolevulinic acid levels of a number of children were measured. They showed no evidence of adverse effects on health due to pollution by lead.
20494407|One - and several -amino-nitriles have been found to react with acetone in the presence of sodium methoxide to give the acetone-amino-amide Schiff bases, from which the amino-amides may be liberated by mild acid hydrolysis. This method of hydrolysing the nitrile group may owe its extraordinary facility to a mechanism which shares some of the characteristics of an enzymatic hydrolysis.
20494252|1. An account of some Simuliidae taken in the course of a national survey is given. 2. Some new country records are listed and an attempt is made to assess the distribution of the group in Ireland. 3. A new pattern variant of S. brevicaule is described. 4. Growth data are presented for three species in a small stream system in western Ireland.
20494560|Marine and freshwater fish species were anaesthetised with MS-222 and killed by cervical fracture, and specimens of myotomal muscle were taken immediately. The concentrations of ATP in muscle ranged from 2.5  0.5mol/g to 5.9  0.4mol/g, values similar to those found in mammalian skeletal muscle. The concentrations of creatine phosphate were between 8.1  0.9mol/g and 1.6  0.9mol/g. Glycogen content was typically lower than that of mammalian muscle. The concentrations of lactate (4.3  0.5mol/g to 14.2  1.3mol/g) and the high pH ( 7) indicated that the fish had not been stressed ante-mortem, nor had significant contraction of muscle occurred at death. Stunning by means of electrocution or narcotisation with CO significantly reduced the concentration of ATP and creatine phosphate, and these procedures would therefore be expected to accelerate the onset of rigor mortis. Muscle of female fish contained significantly higher concentrations of creatine phosphate than muscle from males, but there was no difference in the concentrations of ATP.
20519063|The lower reaches of the River Quoile (Co. Down) and the associated marshes have been declared a Nature Reserve, mainly because of their rich avifauna. Poor quality effluent, especially from Downpatrick, is discharged into the river and the effect of this on the biology of the river is described. The bottom fauna is impoverished below the discharge, bacterial and algal counts and primary productivity are high. Sea water passes upstream from the barrage and may induce a stable salinity-based stratification in which the noted severe anoxia can develop. Notwithstanding this poor overall condition, rudd fishing remains of very good quality and provided the capacity of the offending conventional sewage works can be increased, more sophisticated effluent treatment seems inappropriate on purely conservationist grounds.
20494956|The synthesis and antituberculosis activity of substituted aryl- and alkyl-Rimino-phenazines are described and an attempt is made to relate structure to biological activity.
20518929|Barnacle geese wintering in Ireland and Scotland comprise the population breeding in east Greenland. This has increased from 11,800 to 23,970 between 1957 and 1973. However, numbers wintering in Ireland have remained stable at approximately 4,400. Differential breeding success in Greenland of Scottish and Irish birds may account for this difference. Ringing recoveries suggest that these have different breeding grounds. A thirteen-year study on the Inishkea Islands, Co. Mayo, which hold over 50% of the Irish birds has revealed a population fluctuating between 1,530 and 2,800 geese, with mean rates of recruitment and loss at 7.8% and 8.3% per annum. Overall, the mean brood size is 1.91 and the proportion of first winter birds 6.5%. There are significant positive correlations between mean brood size and both number and percentage of first winter birds; also between temperature on the wintering ground and mean brood size the following summer. It is suggested that availability of wintering grounds and temperature, through its effect on production of winter food, may be critical factors controlling breeding success in the Irish population. Sociological factors impinging on the population are considered, and it is concluded that barnacle geese should remain protected.
20494880|Upper Carboniferous (Namurian) strata outcropping in an EW folded area north-east of Castleisland, Co. Kerry, and about 100 sq. miles in extent, have been mapped and the succession of about 5,500 feet of sandstones and shales divided into five formations. These have been allocated, on the evidence of their goniatite faunas, to the following Namurian stages and zones: Clare Shales (Arnsbergian, E2, and Sabdenian, H1), Cloone Flagstones and Glenowen Shales (Kinderscoutian, R1), Feale Sandstones (Marsdenian, R2), Ballynahown Sandstones (?). The earliest sandstones have the sedimentary features of turbidites in contrast to those later in the succession which are rhythmic and have 'channel' sandstones. There has been lithological control of tectonic deformation and three successive structural zones are established, distinguished by intensity and mode of folding.
20494911|A total of 1,407 Irish bream were examined by the authors. The bream ranged in size from larvae to fish of over 10lbs (4.5kg) in weight. Prior to 1955, the distribution of the bream in Ireland was restricted to the catchments of certain rivers draining the central plain, though bream were abundant within these catchments. Irish bream spawn between mid-May and June, at water temperatures of 15C and upwards. The eggs are deposited on weeds, not only in the marginal shallows, but also at depths down to 10 feet. The ova are 1.57 to 2.0mm in diameter, and hatch in 7-10 days. The larvae on hatching are 6.0-6.5mm long. The yolk-sac is absorbed in 7-8 days, when the young bream is 8.1-8.3mm long. The first food is unicellular algae. When about 1 cm long, the O-group bream begin to feed on small crustaceans, especially Cladocera, including planktonic Cladocera as well as forms found amongst weeds and on the bottom. In subsequent seasons, the young bream feed more in the open water and eat mainly planktonic Cladocera, though also eating some chironomid larvae. As they grow larger, they eat more benthos and less plankton. The older bream feed almost entirely on benthos, including insect larvae and nymphs, oligochaetes, Gammarus, Asellus and molluscs. Molluscs are an important food of big bream. Maturity is attained by the females at 7-10 years of age, at a fork-length of about 28cm in slow-growing populations and 36-37cm in fast-growing populations. Scale examination provided data on age and growth. The first annulus on the scales is rather faintly marked and could be missed or mistaken for a fry-check. Plus-growth begins in immature fish about the end of May, but not until July in mature bream. The oldest Irish bream examined was 23 years of age. There is an apparent relationship between mean growth-rate and the bicarbonate alkalinity and size of the water area. Ligula, Caryophyllaeus laticeps and Acanthocephalids are of frequent occurrence in larger Irish bream, and the trematode Sphaerostoma bramae in juveniles.
20518960|A full description and figures are given of the little-known marine amphipod Amphitholina cuniculus (Stebbing), which is recorded for the first time from Ireland. The systematic position of the species is discussed, and a new sub-family is erected for its inclusion within the family Ampithoidae. The aberrant structure of the amphipod is accounted for by its alga-burrowing habits.
20494377|Monthly samples of the two-spotted goby, Gobiusculus flavescens (Fabricius), were taken from November 1976 to October 1977 at Carna, Co. Galway, from the intertidal and infralittoral zones and examined to determine life-span, growth, reproductive cycle and feeding of the species on the Connemara coast. Few specimens older than 12 to 17 months were caught. The disappearance of the one-year-old fish is discussed and possible explanations advanced. The breeding season extends from February to August, the fish spawning after their first winter. Fecundity varies considerably with individual fish but shows a definite correlation with time of year and length. Feeding intensity is reasonably uniform throughout the year except in November and December when consumption is reduced. Over 80% of the diet is crustacean. The importance of the various food items was estimated by several methods, and the resulting differences discussed. Comparisons are made between the biology of G. flavescens at Carna and in other areas.
20519019|Mapping censuses of territory-holding birds were carried out in May 1973 in a variety of woodlands near Killarney. Particular attention was paid to the oakwoods, where it was found that the diversity of birds decreased in those areas which were heavily grazed or were infested with rhododendrons. The almost complete absence of warblers and the abundance of goldcrests were unusual features. Muckross Yew Wood had sixteen species and a more balanced bird community than that found either in the Norway or Sitka Spruce. The Norway Spruce wood had the highest density of all the plots, with 180 territories per 10 hectares. The Sitka Spruce was very poor, with only eight species against fourteen in Norway Spruce. Three mixed woodlands and several of the islands in Loch Leane were censused. The largest studied, Brown Island, had a balanced community with 82 territories of 20 species on its 4.8 hectares.
20494360|This paper dealing with the Hymenomycetes is the second of a series contributing towards an annotated list of Irish fungi recorded between 1726 and 1975. When completed this series of papers will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi published since that of Adams and Pethybridge (1910 "Proc. R. Ir. Acad." 28 B, 120-166).
20494505|A high yield EZ photoisomerisation of 2-benzyloxy chalcone is described. Reduction of both the isomers to the related allylic alcohols, subsequent oxidation with peracid to the corresponding 1,2-threo-, 2,3-cis- and 2,3-trans-epoxy alcohols and cyclisation with Lewis acid provide a new route to two isomers of flavan-3,4-diol. Reduction of cis- and trans-2-benzyloxychalcone epoxides provides the second pair of 1,2-erythro-2,3-cis- and 2,3-trans-epoxy alcohols, and their cyclisation yields the remaining two isomers. The reactions involved are conformation-dependent and provide the first synthesis of 2,3-cis-3,4-trans-flavan-3,4-diol.
20494936|SYNTHETIC methods for 2-nitrodiphenylamines and N-cyclohexyl-2-nitroanilines are described.
20519060|Salmon numbering 762, captured at sea by drift nets, were tagged, in June and July from 1973 to 1975. Ninety-three fish (12.2%) were recaptured, the majority in coastal waters, rivers and estuaries from the River Shannon to Waterford Harbour. Recaptures were also recorded from Scotland (3) and north-west of England (2).
20494288|The kinetics and mechanisms of the reactions of the uranyl ion, [UO], with acetylacetone have been investigated in aqueous solution at an ionic strength of 1.0 mol dm Na[ClO] and a temperature of 25C. Two separable reactions are observed. The slow and rapid reactions are attributed to the reactions of [UO] and the keto and enol tautomers of acetylacetone respectively. Mechanisms are proposed to account for the kinetic data. The rate constant for reaction of [UO] with the enol form of acetylacetone is 5330  940 dm mol s, while it reacts with the keto form with a rate constant of 3.58  0.40 dm mol s. /// T innichadh danta ar chineitic agus ar mheicnochta na n-imoibrithe idir an ian uranail, [UO], agus aiceatailaiceatn i ndobharthuaslagn ag teocht 25C agus ag neart ianach 1.0 mol dm Na [ClO]. T dh imoibri inscartha le feicel. Culrtear an t-imoibri mall agus an t-imoibri mear i leith imoibri [UO] leis na foirmeacha ceatnacha agus enlacha faoi seach de aiceatailaiceatn. Cuirtear meicniochta chun cinn chun na dla cineiticeacha a mhni. S rt-thairiseach imoibrichin [UO] leis an dttaimir enlach de aiceatailaiceatn n 5330  940 cm mol s agus imoibrinn s leis an fhoirm cheatnach le rt-thairiseach 3.58  0.40 dm mol s.
20494403|An X-ray crystallographic determination of the structure of marrubiin confirms the structure and stereochemistry determined chemically. The molecule is highly strained with ring A a distorted boat, and ring B a flattened chair. The dehydration of marrubiin to an exocyclic alkene is discussed.
20518878|The plutonic, metamorphic and structural features of the eastern margin of the Leinster Granite and the associated country rocks in northern Co. Wicklow are described and discussed. It is seen that many features are a continuation southwards of those described further north by Brindley (see References). Differences include (a) the existence of a more extensive crush structure in the marginal granite, (b) exceptionally well developed local tonguing of the granite contact, (c) the presence of a strongly crushed aplite body. The granite is of two varieties--Type I, a quartz-diorite occurring marginally, and Type II, an adamellite which forms the bulk. In these occur flow and crush structures. The country rocks bear the imprints of four periods of deformation and metamorphism. The earliest was pre-granitic and regional. The second is correlated with the main plutonic intrusion phase when powerful shouldering stresses acted on the country rocks and when high-grade metamorphic minerals appeared in those bordering the granite. The last two periods were of regional folding with attendant retrogressive metamorphism.
20518991|Magilligan Foreland is a sandy, cuspate, coastal accumulation form. Evidence from various sources suggests that over the last 140 years the shoreline has not undergone any major erosional or accretionary changes, although many short term variations have occurred. During recent years the backshore has been eroded at three- to four-year intervals, at times when high tides and strong winds ( 35 knots) coincide. However, foreshore erosion is more frequent, and the intervals between such episodes are important in determining the susceptibility of the coast to storm damage. Alongshore, three types of coasts have been identified, controlled by two counteracting wave systems. The distribution of sediments reflects these alongshore variations in process.
20518895|Two chemically and mineralogically distinct intrusive rock units are recognised in this area of the Galway Granite batholith and they are described with modal and chemical details. Mineralogical and chemical studies have been made of plagioclase and alkali feldspars, and temperatures of crystallisation of the rock units are based on the results. The structure and intrusive history of the area is described, and comparison made with adjacent areas of the Galway Granite which have recently been described by other authors.
20494542|The adsorption of three basic dyes-Basic Blue 69 (Astrazone Blue), Basic Red 22 (Maxillon Red) and Basic Yellow 21 (Astrazone Yellow)--onto activated carbon has been studied. The equilibrium isotherms have been determined and the maximum saturation level adsorption capacities are 800mg g, 535mg g and 635mg g for the three dyes respectively. The isotherms were analysed using the Langmuir, Freundlich and Redlich-Peterson equations.
20494451|The moth fauna of two contrasting woodland types at Banagher, Northern Ireland, a relic woodland and a conifer plantation, was sampled by light trapping. Species richness, diversity and species composition were more comparable between sites within each woodland than between woodland types. Although fewer species were recorded in the plantation, a log normal pattern of species abundance was observed in both habitats. Only a small proportion of moth species in the plantation were dependent on the conifer trees for larval food supply. It is probable that the unplanted areas are important for the maintenance of species diversity in the conifer plantation.
20519014|Unit cell compositions, DTG curves and the sorptive properties towards carbon dioxide and ammonia in the temperature range 27315-47315 K of Linde molecular sieve zeolite type A, ion-exchanged with Li, Na, Ag, Ca, Sr, Co, Ni, Zn and Cd are discussed. The uptake sequence of CO at 33315 K and 20 cm Hg pressure was: CaA &gt; SrA &gt; NaA &gt; LiA  NiA &gt; CdA = ZnA &gt; CoA. The relatively weak interaction between the Zn, Cd, Co and NiA zeolites and CO supports recent X-ray work indicating that Zn, Co and Ni ions are recessed into the sodalite cages; a similar location of Cd to Zn is proposed. Good correlation between the experimental data and the Ruthven isotherm equation was observed for the LiA, NaA/CO systems and is indicative of some sorbate mobility, whereas ammonia interacted strongly with cations leading to poor correlation. Henry's law constants for sorbed CO are calculated.
20518974|Gravity and magnetic surveys have been carried out over a 1,500km area of mid and west Co. Kerry. The gravity interpretation favours the existence of an acidic intrusion under the southern part of the area. This intrusion together with the great accumulation of sedimentary rocks within 'the Munster Basin' are considered to be responsible for the large gravity 'low' in the south. The magnetic survey delineates a belt of positive anomalies running across the centre of the area. These have amplitudes up to 300nT. The belt is interpreted as being caused by basic igneous intrusives all at a similar depth of 16km. From a correlation between the gravity and magnetic anomalies a basic igneous intrusive is postulated to lie under an area around Slea Head on the western extremity of the Dingle peninsula.
20494563|Lead levels were measured in liver, kidney and bone from field mice Apodemus sylvaticus and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus living around the tailings pond of an abandoned lead-zinc mine, at a control location, and in field mice from the verges of a motorway. Levels were low compared with similar studies, but at the contaminated sites were significantly elevated above the control. At the tailings pond the highest figures were from the sides where most drainage occurred and were probably affected by increased soluble lead. On the motorway, lead content was influenced by traffic flow and by the extent of cover backing onto the hard shoulder, which facilitates movement away from the roadside, thus reducing exposure to lead. A negative correlation of contamination with age in Clethrionomys was noted. Interspecific and seasonal variations are discussed and are best explained in terms of diet.
20518962|The growth of Bacillus polymyxa and the effect of carbon sources on the production of extracellular amylase and protease in peat extract was examined. Growth of the organism in the extract alone was poor and no amylase was produced. Addition of a variety of carbon sources revealed that amylase was produced only in the presence of starch or a similar inducer. Protease production in the extract alone was poor. Various carbon sources were added to the peat extract and their effect on protease production determined. The proteolytic enzyme was produced with all the carbohydrates that supported growth of the microorganism; highest enzyme yields were obtained with starch or starch-like materials.
20519030|The application of the Langmuir and Volmer ideal models of sorption to zeolitic CO and NH equilibria in several ion-exchanged forms of zeolite Y is discussed. CO sorption in the energetically homogeneous LiY, NaY, KY and AgY systems is localised at the lower temperatures but tends to become mobile at temperatures above  363 K; sorption in MnY and CoY is mobile for 0 &lt;  &lt; 0.5 with localisation setting in at higher coverages. NH sorption in the near homogeneous KY and MnY systems approximates to a localised model with mutual sorbate molecule-molecule interaction. All the isotherm data may be reduced to characteristic curves using the Dubinin-Polanyi theory provided a fixed value is taken for the molar volume.
20494301|Adsorption data for CO and NH in CrL, FeL, CoL, YL, CoX, MnX, CoY and MnY have been obtained. Attempts were made to fit the experimental isotherms to theoretical equations derived by Riekert, Sips, Koble and Corrigan, Ruthven and Langmuir. Agreement with the Riekert equation was poor while the Sips Equation was capable of representing CO sorption particularly well for systems which were localised. Agreement with the Ruthven equation was best for CO in cobalt X and Y zeolites indicating sorbate mobility in these systems. Both CO and ammonia equilibria could be correlated with the Koble-Corrigan equation and this equation could also be used to provide information of the numbers of centres active in adsorption.
20518868|The first recorded Lower Ordovician shelly fauna from south-eastern Ireland has been recognised from Tagoat, near Rosslare, Co. Wexford, where it is associated with Arenig graptolites. Other graptolite faunas from the Ribband Series of Co. Wexford are discussed.
20494944|The stratigraphy and palynology of three Late-glacial deposits in County Down is described. Zones based on biostratigraphic criteria are established, to a large extent following the schemes of Smith (1961) and Watts (1963). A new zone, I-II Transition, is distinguished, however, in which the Juniperus pollen curve, in particular, is at a high level. In this zone the vegetational development has certain parallels with that in the transition between the Late-glacial and Post-glacial periods (zone III-IV Transition) though closed birch forests did not then follow the juniper phase. In zone II conditions remained open and the possibility of some climatic shift at the end of zone I-II Transition is discussed. The pollen records suggest that Populus cf. tremula and Plantago lanceolata were present in the Late-glacial period and that the relatively thermophilous species Cladium mariscus was present in zone I-II and zone II at one of the sites. For the first time in the north-east of Ireland it has been possible to obtain pollen spectra throughout zone III and into zone I; the vegetational conditions of these periods are discussed.
20494498|The spin-label 2-tetradecyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazolidine-3-oxide-1-oxyl was synthesised, and its complexes with cyclodextrin (cyclomaltoheptaose) and amylose were prepared. The solid-state e.s.r. spectra of the complexes were compared with a rigid-glass spectrum of the spin-label. This comparison showed that in the cyclodextrin complex there is rotation of the nitroxide ring about the long axis of the molecule, while in the amylose complex this rotation is restricted. This restricted motion is interpreted as inclusion of the ring in an expanded helix or as intercalation.
20494914|The geology of the area between Duffcarrick and Cahore Point, in eastern Co. Wexford, is described with particular reference to stratigraphy, sedimentology, ichnology and structure. It is suggested that the sediments range in age from Cambrian to middle Ordovician (Caradocian), and were deposited, partially by turbidity currents, in a gradually shallowing sea. They were later subjected to polyphase deformation and complex faulting. Evidence from this and other parts of Co. Wexford is used to demonstrate the occurrence of Lower Palaeozoic and subsequent fault block movements which are held responsible for the genesis and repeated rejuvenation of the 'Irish Sea Landmass'.
20518924|The Silurian sequence at Balbriggan is shown to contain the most complete suite yet known of Irish Silurian graptolite zones. Forty-eight graptolite species have been identified in the Llandovery and Wenlock rocks enabling the establishment of the following zones: acuminatus, triangulatus, magnus, sedgwickii, turriculatus, centrifugus, murchisoni, riccartonensis, linnarssoni and lundgreni. It is suggested that the Llandovery and Wenlock graptolitic succession is probably complete, and that the "absence" of some zones is due to relatively small scale faulting on the section, and in part to collection failure. The Balbriggan and Skerries Formations are erected to include, respectively, the finer grained graptolitic sequence and the coarser greywacke sequence, both formations being recognisable also in the problematical inland region of the inlier, away from the type sections. The lower boundary with the Ordovician is complicated by faulting, but the presence of the Ashgill anceps Zone is established in Ireland for the first time on direct evidence. An appraisal is attempted of the Silurian inland exposures in the Balbriggan massif, and the turbidites of the Skerries coast section are ascribed to the Silurian. Comparison is made of the Balbriggan Silurian with other areas, and in particular with the Lake District (Northern England) succession.
20494890|In this paper the results of a survey of the fleas parasitizing the birds of the family Hirundinidae in eight vice-counties in the South of Ireland are given. Seven species of flea were found to occur in the nests of martins and three of these were new to Ireland. Of the three species new to Ireland Ceratophyllus rusticus is a well known species elsewhere but Frontopsylla laeta and Callopsylla waterstoni are very rare and in these islands have been reported only from Scotland. Five species were found commonly infesting the nests of house-martins and one species was regularly encountered in nests of sand martins. Although the common bird flea, Ceratophyllus gallinae gallinae was collected from the nests of both species of martins it occurred only in significant numbers in the burrows of sand-martins. No fleas were found in the nests of swallows. The results obtained by incubating a number of nests are discussed. The literature concerning the host and geographical distribution of martin and swallow fleas is reviewed and the desirability of further information from Ireland is indicated.
20494494|Methylation of 2-hydroxy-6-methoxy-2-(-methoxy-benzyl)benzo[b]furan-3(2H)-one, the methanolysis product of 6-methoxyaurone epoxide, afforded a mixture from which seven products were isolated and characterised. These include the methyl derivatives of the three ring-chain tautomers of the substrate and two methyl derivatives of a glycolic acid resulting from a benzilic acid rearrangement of the open-chain diketone tautomer The parent glycolic acid was obtained by the reaction of alkali on the same substrate and on its acetyl derivative. The methanolysis products of the unsubstituted aurone epoxide and of 4,6-dimethoxy aurone epoxide were also methylated.
20494361|A total of 162 species of myxomycetes is listed for Ireland, of which twenty-five are first published records. Comatricha rigidireta and Macbrideola decapillata are first records for the British Isles and the latter is new to Europe. Many of the additions developed in moist chamber culture of bark from living trees. Distribution maps, based on the 10 km squares of the Irish Grid, are provided for the commoner species, together with a map showing all recorded squares. Further collecting is needed especially in Donegal, Londonderry, Armagh, Fermanagh and Limerick -- areas which are under-recorded. Some species which are common in Great Britain are rare or absent in Ireland, e.g. Diachea leucopodia, Didymium clavus, D. difforme and Physarum bivalve. A full bibliography to Irish myxomycetes is provided.
20519062|The glacial deposits in south Wexford are derived principally from two sources (1) ice of inland origin which deposited a stony, loam till and some fluvioglacial gravels (Bannow Formation), (2) ice from the Irish Sea which laid down shelly, calcareous clays, clay loams and extensive deposits of fluvioglacial sands and gravels (Blackwater Formation). Some terrace gravels are found beside the Slaney river (Slaney Formation). The two main formations, i.e., Bannow and Blackwater, were distinguished on the basis of stoniness, texture, carbonate content and lithology. The boundary between both formations runs from west of Enniscorthy south to Taghmon and Duncormick.
20518979|The synthesis of benzyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranoside is described. A small amount of benzyl 2,3,6-tri-O-acetyl--D-galactopyranoside was isolated during the preparation of the corresponding, crude 2,3,4-tri-O-acetylgalactoside. When a mixture of equal amounts of benzyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranoside and penta-O-acetyl--D-glucopyranose was fused with a catalytic amount of toluene-p-sulphonic acid, crystalline benzyl -gentiobioside was isolated after deacetylation of the product mixture, and fully characterised. 6-O--D-galactopyranosyl-D-galactopyranose was obtained by a similar condensation between penta-O-acetyl--D-galactopyranose and the crude 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-galactoside, after deacetylation and catalytic hydrogenation of the reaction mixture.
20494342|Larvae of three species of Tipulidae were isolated from peat at Glenamoy, Co. Mayo. The immature stages of Erioptera trivialis, Molophilus occultus and Tricyphona immaculata are described and illustrated. E. trivialis and T. immaculata were collected from peat which had been drained and fertilised and was covered with a grass sward; M. occultus came from undrained bog.
20518912|Tetanic contraction significantly lowered the concentration of high-energy phosphates in both the red and white fibre areas of normal and ischaemic m. semitendinosus of the pig. Ischaemia alone did not significantly influence the resting level of these substances in the white fibres but increased the rate at which ATP was hydrolysed post-mortem; it lowered the resting levels of ATP in the red fibres. The results demonstrated that contraction depleted the high-energy phosphates of the muscle to a greater extent than did ischaemia.
20494892|A SUITE of minor intrusions cutting the aureole rocks of the granodioritic Ardara pluton in Co. Donegal is petrogenetically connected with the pluton. The suite is characterised by abundant heterogeneous amphibole-rich rocks and the widespread occurrence of associated brecciated metasediments.
20494887|The Old Red Sandstone of the Slieve Mish area, 1850 to 5400 ft. in thickness, has been subdivided into five lithostratigraphic units, to which local names have been given. The lowest unit, the Inch Conglomerates, a piedmont deposit largely of metamorphic provenance, is shown to be banked against an old land surface rising northwards, probably retreating by pediplanation. The higher beds are mainly fluvial or lake-deltaic sandstones, with intercalated quartz-jasper conglomerates, one of which, the Castle Hill Conglomerate, reaches a maximum thickness of 400 ft. Green beds, indicative of a transition to the marine conditions of Lower Carboniferous times, appear at the top of the Old Red Sandstone succession. Structurally the area is simple, comprising a slightly asymmetrical east-west anticline of Armorican age, with an easterly pitch of about 4 degrees. Faulting is of minor importance.
20494541|The life history of the thickback sole Microchirus variegatus (Donovan, 1808) was investigated from samples collected on board commercial fishing vessels between March 1978 and September 1979. A total of 512 specimens were taken from fish trawls, shot on sandy bottoms, off the north shore of Galway Bay. The largest fish recorded measured 15.5cm, while the oldest specimen was seventeen years old. In Galway Bay, the rate of growth of the thickback sole was relatively fast for the first seven to eight years of life, after which it gradually slowed down, with very little growth occurring after the tenth or eleventh year. Females appeared to grow faster and live longer than males. Females matured and spawned when they were three years old, having attained at least 9.0cm in length. Males, however, did not spawn until they reached four years of age. The spawning period extended from May to August. The thickback sole is a carnivore, feeding mainly on errant polychaetes and amphipods. Results from Galway Bay are compared with what is known about M. vanegatus from other areas.
20494297|The addition of cerium and other rare earth elements to improve the metallurgical properties of steel is becoming common practice. This has resulted in an increased demand for determinations of cerium for which there is a lack of established methods. A comparatively simple procedure has been developed based on the relatively intense fluorescence of cerium (III) aquo-ion. The interferences, which arise from iron(III), chromium(VI), and cerium(IV) are removed by reduction with hydroxylamine before fluorimetric assay (
20494392|The entomological collection of "Alexander Henry Haliday" (1806-1870) housed in the National Museum of Ireland is a most important nineteenth-century insect collection containing many types of Diptera, Hymenoptera and Thysanoptera and some types of insects in other orders. This paper outlines what is known of the history of the collection, describes its present form and makes recommendations for type designations.
20494465|Two hundred and seventy-nine stations off Carnsore Point (south-east Ireland) were qualitatively sampled for their macrobenthic fauna in 1997-8. Much of the area surveyed experiences strong tidal currents and weather-induced turbulence; bottom sediments are correspondingly low in their 'fines' and organic carbon contents. Four hundred and seventy-nine species were identified and these are assigned to different communities on the basis of hierarchical classification of species binary data. The communities are broadly considered in terms of the associated physical environment and are compared to some near-equivalents in other temperate areas.
20494559|Analyses of Foraminifera, Ostracoda and diatoms from organic silty clays discovered beneath 17m of gravel and Holocene estuarine sediments in Cork Harbour indicate that the sediments were deposited in deepening estuary to intertidal conditions during a temperate (interglacial) stage of the Pleistocene. The study of pollen from these interglacial deposits suggests that they can be correlated with the mesocratic phase of the Gortian temperate stage. Relative sea-level appears to have risen rapidly in the Cork area immediately prior to the onset of the telocratic phase of the Gortian with marine inundation of former freshwater riverine environments. This later phase of the Gortian is not present at the Cork Harbour site, probably having been eroded prior to the deposition of the overlying high-energy pebble gravels. Comparison of the ratios of the amino-acids D-alloisoleucine and L-isoleucine from the foram Ammonia batavus sampled from the interglacial sediments with ratios from the same species from interglacial sites in northern continental Europe suggests that correlation with the last interglacial is unlikely. This lends support to the traditional view adduced from floristic data that the Gortian should be correlated with the Hoxnian, and conflicts with the suggestion that the Gortian represents the last interglacial. Priority should now be given to the acquisition of a series of complete cores through this important sequence.
20518869|Combs on the tarsi and tibiae of odonate larvae and which largely consist of divided setae of very diversified structure are discussed. Descriptive terms for the various components of this armature and a classification by structural categories of the various types of setae of which the combs are composed are introductorily adopted. Constant characters in the spatial composition of the combs are described and the uses of the combs discussed. The concluding part of the work deals in general terms with differences in the armature which may be characteristic of taxonomic groups in the Odonata.
20494279|The larvae of four species of euphausiid were found during a two-year survey of Galway Bay: Meganyctiphanes norvegica, Nyctiphanes couchi, Thysanoessa inermis and Thysanoessa raschi. The first three were seasonally common and the latter rare. A postulated inshore migration of breeding adults of Meganyctiphanes and T. inermis resulted in a larval season from February to May and from late March to May respectively. The larval season of Nyctiphanes extended from May/June to November, with peak concentrations in the autumn months. A spawning centre outside the bay is suggested for Nyctiphanes, with a possible inshore movement of the adults in the autumn. Varying concentrations of the larvae within the August-October period were noted, high concentrations being associated with high salinity water as indicated by temperature-salinity data, with the presence of oceanic chaetognaths (Sagitta tasmanica and Krohnitta subtilis), and with increased concentrations of life-history stages of other species of Sagitta.
20519026|The stratigraphy of Upper Devonian and Lower Carboniferous sedimentary rocks of the Clonakilty Bay area of south County Cork is described. The rocks belong to the "Old Red Sandstone" and marine clastic successions. Continuity of lithostratigraphical units between the Old Head of Kinsale to the east and Toe Head to the west is demonstrated. A change from relatively thin marine clastic successions in the west to much thicker marine clastic successions in the east is shown to occur across Clonakilty Bay. The simple regional structure is complicated by minor folding, eight important strike faults and zones of very steep minor fold plunges. A possible basement control of thickness variation and of tectonic style is suggested.
20494455|Killary Harbour, a fjord-like inlet on the west coast of Ireland, was surveyed by an Irish-French multidisciplinary group with respect to its topography, sedimentology, water structure and circulation, water chemistry, phytoplankton, zooplankton, microbiology, and macrobenthic fauna and flora. The floor of this sheltered, shallow bay (average depth c. 20m) has few rocky outcrops; the main sediment type is a soft mud with an organic content as high as 11.6%. Local weather conditions markedly influence the water structure, which may be semi-stratified or partially mixed. Circulation can be represented as a double layer with a net outflow at the surface. Little deoxygenation was found in the water column and the concentrations of nutrient elements were low. Diatoms dominated the planktonic flora, with the species recorded being neritic in origin. Much of the zooplankton also originated inshore. Heterotrophic and thiosulphate oxidising bacteria were similarly distributed in sediment cores. Transectal sampling of sublittoral alg showed a marked reduction in diversity towards the head of the harbour. The sessile epifauna was relatively poor and seems to represent a reduced version of the temperate Raspailia-Stelligera association. Much of the infauna is assignable to the boreo-Mediterranean Amphiura community. Most aspects of the survey were carried out in May 1974, before the start of an extensive mussel (Mytilus edulis (L.)) cultivation programme in the area.
20494845|In view of the suggestion that there has been a possible increase in Bifurcaria in Ireland during the recent period of climate amelioration results of observations on the occurrence of the species on the west coast of Ireland are given. Some early records for the species in this country are discussed. The habitat in Ireland and elsewhere is described. Problems of reproduction, perennation and the maintainance of existing populations are considered. It is shown that the species is fertile over a longer period of the year than is suggested by accounts in the literature. Viable sexual products are abundant and germination takes place readily in culture. Results of preliminary experiments on the effect of cold on the release of gametes and on germination are given. Possible methods of dispersal are discussed and suggestions are made for further experimental work.
20494431|The synonomy of the dendrochirote holothurian Aslia lefevrei (Barrois 1882) is reviewed and its diagnostic morphology considered in regard to specimens on the west coast of Ireland. With a recorded distribution from the Mediterranean to the Orkneys, this species typically occupies cryptic habitats, at depths ranging from E.L.W.S. to twenty metres, and has a penchant for being densely aggregated.
20518898|A survey of the meiobenthic Harpacticoida (Copepoda) of the littoral and sublittoral zones of an area of coast extending from Termonfeckin, Co. Louth, to Shanganagh, Co. Dublin, was carried out. Some harpacticoids collected on a visit to west Cork are also included. Fifteen stations, twelve littoral and three sublittoral, are described and figured. A total of sixty species is recorded and these include sixteen new to the Irish fauna list and six and three species respectively to the east and south-west coasts. Previous Irish records are noted and ecological data by Irish and other workers are given for the listed species. Monthly littoral collections were made at Seapoint, Co. Dublin, where vertical distribution and seasonal vertical migration of certain species were studied. It has been ascertained that most of the harpacticoids live close to the surface, i.e. within the 0-38mm layer. One species Canuella perplexa showed evidence of a seasonal migration to the deeper layers i.e. 39-76mm. A brief comparison is made with results of surveys carried out by Wells on the harpacticoids of Strangford Lough, the Isles of Scilly and some Scottish lochs.
20494420|The marine alg of all subtidal cliffs (vertical and near-vertical slopes) in Lough Hyne were surveyed in July 1981 by transects of representative sections of the cliffs. A brief description and depth profile are given for each of these transects, and the main plant communities are described for these and two other sites. An annotated species list includes all alg identified during this study, a total of 130 species (87 Rhodophyta; 10 Chlorophyta; 33 Phaeophyta). The Hymenoclonium serpens (Crouan frat.) Batt. phase of Bonnemaisonia asparagoides (Woodw.) C. Ag., Pterosi-phonia pennata (C. Ag.) Falkenb., Ulvella lens Crouan frat., Liebmannia leveillei J. Ag., and Myriocladia lovenii J. Ag. are reported for the first time from Ireland; the report of Cruoriella armorica Crouan frat. is the first for the British Isles.
20494507|Each of the four principal steps in the synthesis of molecular combinations of the anti-tumour agents 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and N-alkyl-N-chloroethyl-N-nitrosourea from -phthalimidoalkyl sulphoxides can give rise to a pair of isomeric products. Methods of optimising the yields of the desired isomers are reviewed, with special emphasis on the third step in which N-(-aminoalkyl)uracils are obtained by dephthaloylation. The interconversion of these monocyclic amines and their bicyclic isomers has been studied and the stability of 5-FU derivatives compared with their 5-iodouracil analogues. Although uric acid was discovered in 1776, some analogues of its 4,5-dihydro derivative (pyrimido[1,2,3-cd]purines formed by elimination of fluoride) are described here for the first time.
20494439|The historic and scientific literature on the pollan is reviewed. Emphasis is placed on the recent research into the taxonomic position of the pollan and its ecology in Lough Neagh.
20494273|The faunas from some old localities of the Geological Survey of Ireland in County Wicklow (near Rathdrum) and County Wexford (near Enniscorthy) are revised and their stratigraphical position in the Caradoc reassessed. The stratigraphy of the Ordovician in Counties Meath and Louth is outlined. Following from these stratigraphic revisions the correlation of the Ordovician in eastern Ireland is reviewed with particular reference to the age of the main episodes of volcanicity.
20494351|This is the first detailed account of the biology of Montagu's Blenny, Coryphoblennius galerita L., in Irish waters. A total of 416 specimens was collected at approximately monthly intervals during the years 1972 to 1974 from the exposed rocky shores of Mweenish Island and Mace Head, Connemara, Co. Galway. Females were more frequently recorded than males (ratio 1.27: 1) and though usually slightly smaller than males at any given age, the difference in growth rate was not statistically significant. The oldest and largest specimen recorded was six years and 8.1 cm total length. Spawning takes place from April to August. Fish may become ripe during the second year of life. Young fish feed predominantly on copepods on their return from the plankton to the shore, but the older fish have a more varied diet which includes algae, barnacle cirri, ostracods, mites, amphipods, insect larvae and echinoids.
20494532|A non-linear least-squares method is described for analysing kinetic data to obtain the rate constant of a second-order reaction together with estimates of the error when the initial and final readings are unknown. The method is superior to the Espenson method in that readings do not have to be taken at constant time intervals.
20519022|Four new occurrences of explosion breccia are described from the Leinster Massif. In a general review of these phenomena in the area, it is shown that they range widely in connection with the various forms of Caledonian igneous activity--the early dolerite swarms, the lamprophyre intrusions, the main Leinster granite pluton and the minor granite intrusions. They were dominated by aqueous fluids under rather widely varying conditions.
20518931|In the course of a two-year investigation (using SCUBA equipment), the author recorded sixty-six species of sponges for parts of the Irish west coast. Twelve of these are additions to the Irish fauna. Seven associations of epifaunal organisms are recognised and described. These are as follows: the Laminaria saccharina Asscn.; the Laminaria hyperborea Asscns., I and II; the Axinella dissimilis Asscn.; the Lithothamnium Asscn.; the Musculus discors Asscn. and the Raspailia-Stelligera Asscn. Some ecological factors which may influence sponge distribution are briefly discussed.
20494267|The morphological and chemical properties of Brown Podzolic soils derived from non-calcareous O.R.S. glacial deposits have been studied in detail. These investigations show that the remnants of A2 horizons present in those soils have the properties of well developed Podzol eluvial horizons while the B horizons have the properties of strongly developed spodic horizons. The soils have probably developed under a complex of (a) dense oakwood (Quercus) canopy with a second storey of Ilex and a poor ground vegetation (Derrycunihy Type 1) and (b) a more open oakwood canopy with a second storey of Ilex and a ground vegetation rich in Vaccinium, Calluna or Erica (Derrycunihy Type 2). Deforestation and subsequent deep cultivation by man, mixed the upper horizons and obliterated the A2 horizon in all but the deepest tongues. These Brown Podzolic soils (Haplorthods) belong morphologically, chemically and genetically within the Podzol Great Soil Group.
20518857|1. Consideration is given to the anatomical features relevant to the operation of adrenalectomy in the sheep. 2. The surgical technique evolved while adrenalectomizing sixteen adult female sheep is described in detail. 3. The difficulties encountered, resolving into limitations of exposure, presence of depot fat and problems deriving from the site and vascularity of the adrenal glands are discussed.
20494930|The microfungi isolated from various peat types occurring in an Irish raised bog are listed together with notes on their taxonomy, physiology and ecological distribution. Reference is made to species which invade cut-away peat both before and after cultivation.
20494319|The rate of adsorption of Astrazone Blue (basic) dye and Telon Blue (acid) dye is mainly controlled by intraparticle diffusion, although a small resistance due to a boundary layer is experienced. The activation energies for adsorption of Astrazone Blue and Telon Blue on peat are 16.5 kJ mol and 9.5 kJ mol respectively. The apparent diffusivities vary from 8.2  10 cms at 18C to 40.0  10 cms at 80C for Astrazone Blue on peat and from 5.9  10 cms at 18C to 21.0  10 cms at 80C for Telon Blue.
20494926|The soluble eyelens proteins of fourteen species and two hybrid forms of freshwater fishes found in Ireland have been studied by electrophoresis in agar gel. The findings of previous workers studying other fishes have been confirmed and extended. Ontogenetic changes in the composition of eyelens protein extracts of fishes are reported for the first time. These changes were found in both brown and rainbow trout.
20494546|A peatland survey of Northern Ireland was completed in 1988 utilising aerial photographs mainly from the preceding decade. At a time of renewed use of peatlands and increased interest in their conservation, constant updating of these maps is required. High-resolution satellite data provide a possible means of achieving this; the paper thus investigates the accuracy with which outer limits of peatland can be mapped from satellite data as compared with aerial photographs, their potential for monitoring changes such as reclamation, forestry and machine peat-cutting, and to what extent internal types of peatland may be identified.
20494418|The biology of the relatively large boreal marine cottid Taurulus bubalis (Euphrasen, 1786) was investigated from March 1978 to February 1980 in the Galway Bay area. Samples were taken from two shores, one at Carna, Co. Galway, and the other at Finavarra, Co. Clare. Fish caught sublittorally were examined separately. Short notes are given on eighteen specimens recorded at Carnsore, Co. Wexford, and four specimens recorded from Kinsale, Co. Cork. Females are more abundant, live longer, grow faster and attain a greater length than males. Most of the growth takes place in the first two years of life. The spawning season extends from December to March, with a maximum in February. Both sexes spawn for the first time in their second year of life. Fecundity is length-dependent and varies between 724 and 7938. While crustaceans constitute the main bulk of the diet, polychaetes, fish and molluscs are also eaten.
20494548|Three sediment sections were analysed for pollen, charcoal and mineral magnetics in order to trace the history of vegetation and human impact in the Lough Adoon Valley on the Dingle Peninsula, Co. Kerry. Time series techniques were used to examine replacement and interaction processes amongst major pollen taxa. The valley had an open Betula/Salix woodland or shrubland with Rumex in the early Holocene. Corylus invaded around 9500 B.P., one of the earliest records for it in Ireland, and later Quercus, Pinus and Ulmus expanded into the region. Forest dominated until 4400 B.P. when clearance, soon after the first pollen evidence of clearing at 5320 B.P., led to the development of heathland, bog and pasture. There was a localised re-invasion of secondary forest in Iron Age times. The arrival of Alnus appears to be an important factor in the decline of Corylus, and human occupation changed the patterns of species interactions. Fire was at first a component of the forest and grassland areas but after human intervention was largely restricted to heath and grassland. The records suggest that the patterns of fire use changed from Bronze Age to Iron Age times.
20494925|A general account of the Oughterard Granite is accompanied by the first detailed map of the granite and of the geology of eastern Connemara. The granite clearly cross-cuts the F Connemara antiform and the Connemara Migmatites, including the potash-feldspar gneisses, and has previously been dated at 510  35 m.y. It is remarkable for being considerably sheared, and for appearing in numerous unconnected pods and veins and in two connected, roughly circular, main bodies: the Tullaghboy mass in the west, now much displaced by faulting, and the Oughterard mass in the east. The Tullaghboy mass is highly irregular, often xenolithic, contaminated, and generally passes into a swarm of small granite sills, dykes and pods. The granite is throughout composed of quartz, albite or oligoclase, microcline or orthoclase, with less than 5% albite in solid solution, and scraps of muscovite and most usually completely chloritised biotite. Sixty-six samples have each been analysed for 30 elements. The major elements indicate general homogeneity. The granite is characterised by a high K/Rb ratio of 320, extremely high Ba and Sr, averaging 2,000 ppm and 600 ppm and very low La, Ce and Y. This rare earth deficiency, the complete absence of hornfelsing, the extreme mobility of the granite magma and possibly the poorness of the differentiation trends are consistent with a magma which was unusually rich in water.
20494513|Irradiation of 3,4,5,6-tetrachlorophthalonitrile in dichloromethane in the presence of naphthalene leads to formation of both the substitution product 3,5,6-trichloro-4-(1-naphthyl)-1,2-dicyanobenzene and the photoreduction product 3,4,6-trichlorophthalonitrile.
20518934|Threlkeld's account of the Irish flora is shown to be derived from four principal sources. His own observations of plants in the neighbourhood of Dublin, together with those of correspondents in various parts of the country, were used to supplement an earlier manuscript list of species found in Ireland. Additional material was provided by unacknowledged borrowing from several of the writings of John Ray.
20494375|A programme of direct sampling and continuous seismic profiling has been used to construct the stratigraphical sequence for the North Celtic Sea. Following the accumulation of considerable thicknesses of Permo-Triassic, Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous sediments in a narrow graben controlled by east-north-east/west-south-west trending boundary faults, thick Upper Cretaceous deposition occurred within a somewhat constricted basin occupying the central part of the North Celtic Sea. More positive areas to the north and west received condensed Upper Cretaceous sequences. Periodic reactivation of the early Mesozoic basin boundary faults played an important role in the accommodation of thick Chalk in the area of the Kinsale Head Gas Field. Only the Upper Campanian transgressions are considered to have extended pelagic chalk deposition any distance northwards on to the Irish Block. End Cretaceous/early Tertiary regression, tectonic inversion and erosion were succeeded by the deposition of a blanket of sediments believed to be composed predominantly of Oligo-Miocene non-marine lithologies. The Nymphe Bank Basin, which is a remnant of this blanket, has been preserved by syn-depositional reactivation of the Msozoic basin boundary faults, tectonic adjustment along the Bala Fault Line and the uplift of the area west of Cork by the development of a series of north-west/south-east trending faults. Marine Neogene sediments make up part of a Tertiary/Quaternary wedge seen south of Mizen Head.
20518882|Some 30,000 feet of Upper Palaeozoic sediment has been recognised in West Cork. The Upper Old Red Sandstone accounts for 22,000 feet, and is divided into two formations, a lower Caha Mountain Formation (18,000+ feet) and an upper, West Cork Sandstone Formation (4,200 feet). The basal member of the Caha Mountain Formation (Slaheny Member; 3,000 feet) and the West Cork Sandstone Formation characteristically show fining-upwards cycles and a fluviatile origin is postulated; these are separated by some 15,000 feet of beds of problematic origin. To the south a marine incursion (the Sherkin Member) is recorded within the West Cork Sandstone Formation. The Coomhola Formation which forms the lowest unit of the Carboniferous Slate includes the Carboniferous-Devonian boundary and reaches a maximum thickness of 3,500 feet. These beds mark the onset of a major marine transgression, and the remaining members of the Carboniferous Slate show progressive deepening of the trough of sedimentation. The youngest beds recorded are of lower Namurian (
20494260|Pig semitendinosus muscle consists of visually-distinct red and white fibre areas which run parallel to each other for the length of the muscle and have the same origin and insertion. The red fibres contained four times more myoglobin and had a four times higher succinic dehydrogenase activity than the white. The white fibres had higher resting levels of creatine phosphate and ATP, formed more lactate post-mortem and had a lower final pH than the red. Stimulation of the motor nerve to the muscle in vivo depleted the high-energy phosphates to a greater extent and elicited a higher rate of anaerobic glycolysis in the white fibres than in the red. The results indicated that white fibres depend more than red on anaerobic mechanisms for their supply of energy.
20494829|Gibberellic acid does not bring about flowering in the short-day dioecious species Cannabis sativa (hemp) under non-inductive photoperiodic conditions. The two sexes do, however, respond to gibberellic acid treatment in long days by a substantial increase in stem growth, and leaf shape changes ensue similar to those which follow short-day induction. When gibberellic acid is supplied during short-day induction, flowering is somewhat delayed, and in genetically male plants the total numbers of flowers produced may be reduced. Treatment after photoperiodic induction may, however, increase total flower production in both sexes. In stem extension growth, female plants respond more to gibberellic acid under short-day conditions than males, and as a consequence, the secondary sexual difference in stature which normally results from the greater growth of male plants during entry into a flowering period is abolished or reversed. These results can be interpreted on the assumption that stem extension growth in hemp is governed by native gibberellin-like substances, and that, while the sexes show no difference in gibberellin metabolism under long days, a difference develops during the early phase of induction in short days such that gibberellin production in the male plants rises while that of the females falls. It remains to be shown whether or not gibberellins are concerned in primary sex differentiation in hemp.
20494286|Precipitation and streamflow have been continuously monitored for four years in a 15km instrumented catchment. Data from these measurements, together with appropriate Meteorological Office calculations of potential evapo-transpiration, enable water-balances to be calculated. The study period has seen both a channel clearance and a peatland drainage scheme within the basin. Studies of the water-balances and of duration flows show how the hydrological characteristics of the basin have responded to these changes. It is concluded that both schemes had marked but temporary effects on streamflow. Total streamflow increased in the first two years of study, the years of channel clearance and peatland drainage, and low flows were increased in magnitude. The last two years of record show marked changes from the first two years, the changes being interpreted as recovery from the effects of the schemes and a return to normality.
20518921|200 structures, believed to be fossil pingos, are recorded in an area of 5.75 km. The rim diameter ranged from 30 to 75m. Four fossil pingos are described in detail. Pollen evidence suggests that the pingos formed at the end of the last cold stage, in Zone III.
20494952|A varied sedimentary sequence was regionally metamorphosed to sillimanite grade and then intruded by basic magma which caused severe hornfelsing. The hornfelses vary from sillimanite-biotite-cordierite-garnet or magnetite schists which grade into the regionally metamorphosed rocks, through cordierite-rich hornfelses with sillimanite and andalusite, to cordierite-rich hornfelses without AlSiO but with almandine garnet, to emery-rock xenoliths containing spinel and surrounded by plagioclase-rich "gabbro". The intrusive rocks varied from dunites and pyroxenites through calcic bytownite gabbros to rare calcic bytownite anorthosites. Contamination by dissolved pelitic material probably increased the plagioclase and orthopyroxene contents. Continuing metamorphism extensively amphibolised the gabbros so that relict pyroxene and olivine are rare. Among the metamorphosed contaminated rocks is one with the association cordierite-anthophyllite-cummingtonite-calcic bytownite. Later quartzo-feldspathisation and migmatisation of the hornfelses and metagabbros was accompanied by isoclinal folding, sliding, shearing and fragmentation of these rocks and agmatisation of the metagabbros. At one horizon zoned biotite-anthophyllite-tremolite-talc nodules were formed due to inclusion of ultramafic fragments in gneiss. The metagabbros were migmatised into a heterogeneous quartz-diorite gneiss containing porphyroblastic andesine-labradorite. The intrusive emplacement of a layer of quartz-labradorite hornblende gneiss also occured and sporadic pink potash-felspar-bearing granite gneiss. Four major isoclinal folds are deciphered. The Roundstone Granite and dykes are post-tectonic. Chemical analyses of seven magnetites and one cordierite are presented.
20518863|In the course of a programme of pyrazole synthesis, bis-N-alkylthiosemicarbazones of 1,3-dioxo-compounds were obtained as byproducts. These possessed significant anticancer activity. Consequently a variety of N-substituted thiosemicarbazides has been condensed with diketones, dialdehydes and keto-aldehydes. Related bis-thiosemicarbazides were also prepared by reacting hydrazides with isothiocyanates. A number of these products displayed considerable activity. N-Methyl-substituted thiosemicarbazides and thiosemicarbazones proved the most effective. The activity and toxicity of the latter compounds were antagonised by pyridoxine.
20518889|A graptolite fauna of 'Pacific' type, recently collected from close to the exposed base of the Rosroe Grits in north-west Co. Galway, is indicative of the middle part of the Llanvirn Series (uppermost part of the Zone of Didymograptus bifidus or lowermost part of the Zone of Didymograptus murchisoni) of the standard British classification of the Ordovician System. The Rosroe Grits are shown to be entirely younger than the Toormakeady, Shangort, and Mount Partry Beds, outcropping to the west of Lough Mask, Co. Mayo, which are themselves firmly dated by graptolites (Dewey, Rickards and Skevington 1970). Decisions cannot yet be taken on the age of the Rosroe Grits relative to the Leenane Grits (Kilroe 1907, Carruthers and Muff 1909) south of Killary Harbour, the Sheeffry Grits (Stanton 1960) of south-west Murrisk, and the Murrisk Series (Dewey 1963) of central Murrisk; the several possibilities are discussed in the light of the evidence currently available.
20518956|The species of the genus Vaucheria can only be identified with certainty by reference to the sexual reproductive structures. A key to the various marine species found in Ireland is presented. In addition, brief ecological notes are given and the locations for the various species are quoted on a county basis.
20494248|Previous studies indicated that Candida utilis grows on peat extract. It was now attempted to increase the yield of C. utilis by studying the various environmental factors that affected the growth of this yeast. These included temperature, pH, osmotic concentration and acclimation. Methods of cultivation and of assessing growth were also studied. The effect of the addition of various substances was also examined and it was found that phosphate and carbohydrate were limiting factors. Peat extract with phosphate added was found to be capable of supporting biomass yields comparable with known microbiological media.
20518896|A steep linear gravity gradient, trending north-east, occurs along the north-west coast of Lough Foyle. This gradient is directly related to the presence of a belt of low-density red beds originally mapped as Lower Carboniferous (Upper Calciferous Series). These rocks are fault-bounded from the Dalradian strata which make up most of Inishowen. Geophysically, a density differential of 0.35 g/cm between the Dalradian and the more recent beds confirms a measured thickness of 1100m for the post-Dalradian strata. In contrast, the available information indicates that the Lower Carboniferous succession in the north of Ireland is much thinner than this, having an observed development of approximately 300 to 400m. There is no evidence to suggest that it in any way approaches the thickness required to explain the observed gravity anomaly. Further to the north-east a gravity gradient exists near Magilligan Point on the opposite side of the Lough. A borehole here has proved the existence of strata the bulk of which is Trias and Carboniferous with the younger rocks forming the dominant component. Similarity of the gravity features in the two areas suggests that the post-Dalradian succession under discussion can be expected to resemble that observed in the borehole. Lithologically the strata more closely resemble the borehole Trias than the Carboniferous and the bulk or possibly all the sequence may, therefore, be of Triassic age. A separate linear gravity gradient of similar trend occurs on the southern shore of the Lough near Eglinton. A comparable geological situation probably exists here with Triassic strata fault-bounded against the Dalradian.
20494860|Coast to coast mapping of part of the Beara Peninsula, west Co. Cork, has revealed a system of folds in Upper Old Red Sandstone and Carboniferous Slate. The lithologies are described and a two-fold division of the latter into Coomhola Beds and Black Slate is made. Four tectonic zones are recognised, each characterised by the size, shape and attitude of the folds. The overall picture is of an asymmetric diapiric fold. The stages of development and the mechanics of folding are discussed.
20494287|The succession at Hook Head records the advance of a transgression in the Lower Carboniferous. Rocks of 'Old Red Sandstone' facies, interpreted as fluviatile coastal plain deposits, are succeeded by thin? intertidal and shallow subtidal deposits of the Porter's Gate Formation.
20494444|The mite fauna associated with barley and weeds was studied in four field plots during 1975 and 1976. Species composition on barley was similar to that on weeds, thirty-one and thirty-eight species respectively being recorded. The pattern of colonization was also similar, the maximum number of species being reached by mid-July in 1975 and mid-August in 1976. Population densities were comparable on barley and weeds and were much greater in 1975 (13-16 per g dry wt) than in 1976 (0.4 per g). Tyrophagus longior, Tarsonemus confusus, Lupotarsonemus talpae and Siteroptes graminisugus were the most abundant species on barley in 1975, while L talpae, T longior and Steneotarsonemus culmicolus were the commonest species on weeds. T longior was scarce in 1976. Twenty species were recorded from the inflorescence of barley and two (S graminisugus and Tydeus nr. mumaei) were more abundant on the inflorescence than on other plant parts. Most species in the plots were also recorded from adjacent hedgerows but in low density. Hedgerows were not considered a major source of species colonizing barley. Nineteen species were collected from the air, but air currents were probably significant only in the dispersal of S. graminisugus and, to a lesser extent, L talpae.
20494349|A series of cirque moraines deposited on the floor of Lough Nahanagan in eastern Ireland indicates that the latest advance of cirque glaciers occurred between ca. 11,000 and 10,500 B.P. This phase is termed the Nahanagan Stadial. The inner cirque moraines were deposited by active glaciers in an ice-lake. The overriding glaciers deformed the bottom sediments of a previously existing cirque lake that was dammed by an outer cirque moraine of late Midlandian age. Many of the moraines have a high protalus component of granite blocks. Organic silts from the ice-pushed lake clays show a late glacial Juniperus-Empetrum vegetation assemblage and C age of 11,500 B.P. Pollen analysis of silts and silty gyttja overlying the inner cirque moraines indicates that two brief late glacial vegetation assemblages, characterised by Artemisia and by Gramineae-Rumex, occurred before the start of the Littletonian which is distinguished by a strong rise in Juniperus. Temperature calculations based on estimates of snowline positions suggest that mean temperature was about 7.2C cooler during the Nahanagan Stadial than at present.
20518993|The nematode population of peat squares sunk in agar was found to be just as high in the presence of predatory Collembola as in their absence and to be significantly higher when mites (not necessarily predatory) were present than when they were not.
20518978|The Galway Bay region of western Ireland is notable for the diversity and faunal interest of its intertidal habitats. The physiographic and biological features of a representative selection of such shores are described. Zonation patterns and biological exposure indices are presented for the rocky shores, of both limestone and granite, which range in aspect from the wave-pounded Atlantic coasts, as at Doolin Point and Mweenish, to the shelter of Finavarra and the nearly enclosed inlets. The configuration and biota of two rather different rapids systems, through which such inlets communicate with the sea, are described. At Ardfry, near the head of Galway Bay, where a restricted fauna achieves great abundance, the distribution of some algal and animal species has been related to the pattern of water movement. At the more oceanic Cashla Bay locality, on the other hand, the fauna is notably diverse although the filter feeders again achieve great prominence. The animals associated with Zostera and the in-fauna of sand are described from the sheltered bay at Mweenish. Attention has been paid throughout both to the characteristic biota of each habitat and to the uncommon or more unusual animals discovered there.
20518952|Tubocurare given intramuscularly ante-mortem reduced the extent to which biochemical changes occurred in m. longissimus dorsi and in the red and white areas of m. semitendinosus of Pitrain pigs at or immediately after death. The subsequent rates of ATP hydrolysis, lactate formation and pH fall were not reduced curarisation.
20518879|Detailed investigations in north-east Ireland have been carried out, involving field mapping in an area of approximately 600 square miles. Evidence from erratics, till fabrics and striae indicate that the area was subjected to a complex series of ice movements involving frequent changes of centres of dispersal and considerable topographic control of ice-flow. Two main phases of ice movement are recognised and it is suggested that both occurred within the last glaciation. In the first phase, Scottish ice flowed south-westwards across Co. Down and north-westwards across the plateau of southern Co. Antrim and along the coast of east Co. Antrim. In the second phase, Irish ice was dominant, fanning out from a centre of dispersal in the Lough Neagh basin. Ice flowed south-eastwards across Co. Down, and north-eastwards in south Co. Antrim, veering northwards along the coast. Scottish ice failed to penetrate the area in this phase except in north Co. Antrim, where the Armoy moraine represents its maximum incursion. No evidence for a later Antrim Coast Readvance of Scottish ice has been found in the area.
20494908|A total of seventy-four identified species of Agromyzidae are recorded for Ireland in this paper. This list is based both on new material (collected mainly on the Burren, Co. Clare) and on revision of previous Irish records. One new synonymy is proposed (under Phytomyza tenella Meigen).
20494348|A detailed examination of the geomorphology, geology and archaeology of the cave was made. The cave consists of a series of large caverns linked by a now fossil stream cave. The cave has probably been hydrologically inactive since the onset of the last glacial and is now being infilled by boulder falls and the deposition of calcite. The discovery of coins of Viking age together with data from bone remains and radio-carbon dating seem to confirm the annalistic belief that many Irish died in the cave as a result of an attack by the Dublin Vikings around 929 A.D.
20494352|A sample of 108 feral American mink Mustela vison, trapped in Ireland, was examined and dissected. The majority bore wild-type pelage but 6% were colour varieties normally found on fur farms. Variation in the arrangement of white hair on the ventral surface is described. Some criteria of maturity were investigated; adult dimensions are listed with some details of juvenile growth. The seasonal variation in the male reproductive organs is given; a steep increase in testis weight in December corresponds with the attainment of full size by juveniles and their sexual maturity. The breeding season is similar to that of ranched mink. Irish mink feed on a wide variety of animal food. Most of the data came from one area where the main foods were lagomorphs (probably rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus) and crayfish Astacus pallipes, together with rats Rattus norvegicus, fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus, birds, frogs Rana temporaria and fish. Ectoparasites were identified; the fleas recovered had rats and mice as their true hosts. The apparent freedom from disease and frequency of fat deposits are in keeping with a successful introduced species, steadily expanding its range.
20518994|A total of 57 carbonate secreting marine organisms from a cold temperate marine environment were analysed to determine the distribution of calcium, magnesium and strontium in their skeletons. Mineralogy is the overriding factor only in the enrichment of magnesium in these skeletons. A mineralogical control of strontium enrichment as a first order effect is evident only in the higher mollusca. Most other organisms show strontium levels that cannot be accounted for by their mineralogy and crystal chemistry alone. Also within a single phyletic group there is considerable variation in the strontium levels even between genera. It is surmised that in addition to a mineralogical-ecological control, a phylogenetic and biochemical control is effective in governing trace and minor element enrichment in carbonate skeletons. A comparison of the biogeochemistry of temperate and warm water skeletal materials indicates that the Sr/Ca atom ratio of temperate water organisms is much less than the Sr/Ca ratio of the seawater of the area, while in most warm water organisms it is very near to or greater than the seawater value. The ratios for the higher Mollusca are the same for both environments. These findings are significant in relation to carbonate geochemistry, diagenesis and the environmental and palaeogeographic interpretations of ancient carbonate sediments.
20494867|Interglacial deposits were discovered during well-digging at Baggotstown, near Bruff, County Limerick. The deposits contain the characteristic flora of the Gortian (Hoxnian) interglacial period. The vegetational sequence, based on pollen-analysis, is (1) a period with Salix (willow) and herbs; (2) a Hippophae-Juniperus (sea-buckthorn, juniper) period; (3) a period of Betula (birch) forest; (4) a Betula-Pinus (pine) period; (5) a Pinus-Betula period with some Quercus (oak). (6) a Pinus-Quercus period; (7) a period with Alnus, Taxus, Abies, Picea and Rhododendron (alder, yew, silver fir, spruce and rhododendron); (8) after an erosional hiatus, a period with herbs and Pinus. The interglacial deposits lie between stony clays. The lower clay is probably a boulder-clay of Elsterian age, the first deposit of this age to be identified in Ireland. In addition to pollen the deposits were rich in fossil seeds, fruits, mosses and molluscs which are reported on. A small organic interglacial deposit containing a temperate flora stratified in the boulder-clay above the main interglacial deposit cannot be dated. This report deals primarily with the interglacial flora and fauna. The glacial deposits require further study.
20494276|Lichenological surveys of south-east Ireland in 1974 and 1975 furnished a list of 264 taxa of which six, Bacidia pruinosa, Lecanora muralis var. diffracta, Opegrapha lyncea, Micarea prasina, Parmelia cetrarioides and Pertusaria coccodes, are new to the Irish flora. 373 vice-county records from Carlow, Dublin, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Tipperary (South), Waterford, Wexford and Wicklow are also enumerated. The ecology and status, based mainly on an appraisal of 61 major sites, are given for many of the 203 taxa listed. 292 lichen taxa have been recorded since the lichen survey programme began in 1973, and it is estimated that more than one-quarter of the ten-kilometre grid squares within the area defined as "south-east Ireland" have reasonably detailed coverage.
20494466|A geological investigation of a silica sand pit at Pollnahallia, near Headford, County Galway, revealed a complex network of gorges and caves in the limestone now covered by superficial material including glacigenic deposits. An organic deposit 5m thick in the bed of one of the gorges has been shown biostratigraphically to be Late Tertiary or Early Pleistocene in age. The organic deposit is in turn overlain by a pure silica sand deposit of unknown age which is over 8m thick. This sand appears to have been deposited in the gorge by the action of wind, or possibly by water, and may have originated from weathered quartzites in Connemara. Overlying the whole sequence are undated glacigenic deposits, possibly indicating ice movement from the north and northwest. Glacial action, including that of meltwater, has reworked some of the silica sand and rafted large sheets of limestone to cover parts of the gorge.
20519023|The dependence of the crystal stability of NiA zeolites on the level of ion-exchange and the temperature of outgassing is investigated. Nine samples with exchange levels varying in the range 83-802% exchange are examined. Each Ni after the first, entering the unit cell causes an increase of 3 HO molecules in the unit cell water content. While samples exchanged up to 75% were stable to outgassing at least up to 673 K, exchange above this level introduces crystal instability; this is attributed to Ni ions replacing Na at the 8-oxygen ring sites.
20519054|329 rock gobies were collected at the shores of Carna, Connemara, over a period of twelve months. Their age, growth, reproduction and diet are examined. Both sexes are evenly distributed in the population. The gobies may live for seven years or longer, growing to 13.0cm in that time, but few of the fish live more than three or four years. The fish begin to mature in their second year and spawn when they are two or three years old. Both sexes mature at the same age. The spawning season extends from march to June, being most intense from mid-March to mid-May. Fecundity is similar at Carna and the Isle of Man. The gobies are carnivorous, feeding mainly on amphipods, polychaetes, ostracods, copepods, gastropods and insect larvae.
20494508|The base-catalysed reaction of 2-hydroxybenzaldehydes with methyl cyanoacetate at room temperature affords 2-(2-amino-3-methoxycarbonyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-yl)-2-cyanoethanoates, which at higher temperatures are converted into methyl 3-amino-2-cyano-3-(2-oxo-2H-1-benzopyran-3-yl)-2-propenoates.
20518973|Three formations have been established within the group, of which neither base nor top is exposed within the mapped area (in ascending order): (i) Valentia Slate Formation (over 3,200m in thickness), dominantly cleaved siltstones, (ii) St. Finan's Sandstone Formation (2,160-2,440m) and (iii) Ballinskelligs Sandstone Formation (over 1,180m). Thin lenticular polymict conglomerates appear in all three formations along the northern part of the area. The St. Finan's Formation shows a marked lateral change of facies, green chloritic sandstones increasing from west to east. Lithological correlation with established successions in neighbouring areas is suggested. The Hercynian structures of the area comprise two principal anticlines (Portmagee and Kilcrohane) with a medial syncline (Inny). Axial planes are almost vertical except in a zone in the northern part where overfolding occurs in folds with axial-plane dip as low as 30 to the south-south-east. Axialplane cleavage is present in the finer sediments. Steep-angle thrust faulting occurs but no marked horizontal translation is apparent. Rotational faults parallel to the regional strike are a feature of the southern anticline.
20518890|The writer is privileged to have been afforded the opportunity of perusing the late G. P. Farran's manuscripts. It was apparent that, apart from work carried out for the River Liffey Survey, most of his freshwater entomostracan work was never published. Data concerning the frequency, occurrence and distribution of thirty-four species of freshwater copepods were extracted and have been listed systematically. Some previous Irish records are given and some of the writer's own work in this field is included where appropriate.
20519047|Erosion by the Colebrooke river exposed a section in the side of a drumlin at Hollymount, near Maguiresbridge, Co. Fermanagh, during the early part of 1971. Site investigations, including drilling, revealed a thick deposit of freshwater silts containing thin bands of organic detritus, sealed between two separate till sheets. The lower till and part of the laminated silts are below the base river flow; the upper till is in drumlin form. A bulk sample of organic detritus taken from the silts gave a C date of &gt;41,500 years B.P. (Birm. 309). The flora and fauna of the laminated series indicate that the surrounding environment was of open northern aspect during the deposition of the silts.
20494928|Amongst the fishes from the 'Challenger' Expedition received by the National Museum of Ireland in 1899 are type specimens of sixteen species. Their type status had been previously unsuspected. A list of these type specimens is given, with notes on the collection of the same species in the British Museum (Natural History), their lengths, locality and synonyms are detailed. The list of type specimens is preceded by a discussion of the history of this fish collection, and the intentions of the principals of the 'Challenger' expedition with regard to the disposal of type specimens. Correspondence is quoted between Dr. Albert Gnther of the British Museum (Natural History), and Professor Sir Charles Wyville Thomson and Dr. John Murray of the 'Challenger' from published and unpublished sources.
20494326|3-Alkylthio-5-methyl-s-triazolo [3, 4-a] phthalazin-6-ones and the corresponding sulphones on treatment with hydrazine undergo nucleophilic cleavage of the pyridazine ring with formation of o-substituted benzoylhydrazines. The corresponding 5-phenyl analogues undergo a similar ring cleavage but with much greater facility and with a wider variety of nucleophiles. The 3-methylsulphonyl group in all s-triazolo [3, 4-a] phthalazines examined was stable to nucleophiles. A novel replacement of a chlorine atom by a thiol group is also recorded.
20518910|This paper is a further review and assessment of the numerous papers which have been published in recent years on the extent and dissolution of the last ice-sheet in Ireland and the Irish Sea.
20494493|A mercuric bromide catalysed nucleophilic substitution reaction between the metal alkoxide of an -hydroxy acetal and 5-amino-7-methylthiofurazano[3,4-d]pyrimidine (5) leads to an unambiguous synthesis of 2,4-diamino derivatives of 8-oxa-7,8-dihydropteridines (pyrimido[4,5-b][1,4]oxazines).
20519028|DTG curves and sorption equilibria of zeolitic CO and NH in Linde Molecular Sieve type Y ion-exchanged with Li, Na, K, Ag, Ca, Sr, Ba, Mn, Co and in HNaY are discussed. The selectivities of the sorbents for CO at 303.15 K were: KY &gt; NaY &gt; LiY &gt; AgY &gt; HNaY BaY &gt; NaY &gt; SrY &gt; CaY &gt; CoY  MnY and for NH at 473.15 K AgY  LiY = NaY &gt; KY &gt; HNaY and CoY &gt; SrY &gt; BaY &gt; CaY &gt; MnY. The data suggest that the Co, Mn and Ag ions in the outgassed zeolites are located in sites inaccessible to CO while NH interacted strongly with all the cations. Equilibration of the NH/MnY and NH/CoY systems was very slow at the lower temperatures. The CoY and MnY/CO systems were well represented by a theoretical isotherm equation for 0 &lt;  &lt; 0.6 indicative of sorbate mobility with localisation setting in at higher coverages; Henry's law constants and initial heats of sorbed CO are discussed.
20518940|The northern part of the Leinster Massif has a core of granite flanked by Lower Palaeozoic rocks. Several formations are differentiated in the sequences on either side of the granite and the successions are correlated. Acritarchs and chitinozoa give some age indications. The Bray Group, on the eastern side of the granite, ranges at least from late Lower Cambrian to early Middle Cambrian. It structurally overlies probable Cambrian to lower Ordovician Ribband Group rocks and is separated from them by a thrust. West of the granite the lower Ordovician Ribband Group is overlain by formations of probable mid-Ordovician to Silurian age.
20494459|A comprehensive study of the morphology and properties of podzolic soils in the north of Ireland was undertaken. Profile descriptions and chemical data are presented for podzolic soils representative of categories in the classification system for England and Wales. Compared to Britain, the morphological range of these soils is limited in the north of Ireland. Ironpan stagnopodzols and ferric podzols are the predominant profile types. Two evolutionary sequences are identified: (1) ferric podzols  ironpan stagnopodzols; (2) ferric podzols  humo-ferric podzols  humus-ironpan stagnopodzols. Ferric podzols form by isoelectric precipitation of positively charged iron and aluminium sols in the B horizon. With altitude these soils become ironpan stagnopodzols. The perched water-table associated with a saturated organic topsoil creates an ironpan at the interface between reducing and oxidising conditions. On low-lying sites a humo-ferric podzol develops when negatively charged colloidal organic acids accumulate at the top of the Bs horizon. High moisture retention capacity in the Bh horizon encourages ironpan formation and the genetic sequence to humus-ironpan stagnopodzol is completed.
20518865|Interglacial deposits were discovered as a result of well-digging in Kildromin Townland, near Herbertstown, Co. Limerick. The deposits contain the characteristic flora of the Gortian (Hoxnian) interglacial period. In the temperate part of the interglacial a Pinus -- Betula -- Quercus (pine -- birch -- oak) period is followed by a period of Taxus -- Alnus -- Abies -- Rhododendron -- Picea (yew -- alder -- silver fir -- rhododendron -- spruce). The interglacial deposit lies between stony clays. The lower clay may be an Elsterian boulder-clay. The upper till, only 4.5 m. thick, represents both the Saale an Weichsel glaciations. Further investigation of the older regional glacial deposits by drilling is desirable. The vegetation succession in the four main Irish Gortian sites is compared and brought into one zonation system. A comparison is made with Hoxnian sites in Britain.
20494445|The food of otters Lutra lutra on the south shore of Galway Bay was investigated by analyses of monthly collections of faeces and proved to be almost entirely a wide range of littoral and sublittoral demersal fish, particularly rocklings (Gadidae), eel Anguilla anguilla and wrasses (Labridae) Significant seasonal and locational differences were demonstrated for several species and are discussed. Eel seems to be preferred when available. Invertebrates composed less than 6% of hard parts and were mostly almost certainly items originally consumed by fish.
20494374|The previously unknown male and phoretic deuteronymph of Protodinychus punctatus Evans are described and a re-description is given of the idiosoma dorsal and the genital region of the female. Attention is drawn to the form of the tripartite genital shield of the female and of the partial separation of the acetabula of cox I within the gnathopodal cavity. In addition to these features, Protodinychus is shown to present a mosaic of gamasine and uropodine characters. P. punctatus is considered to be the least specialised (? most primitive) member of the Uropodina and is included with the genus Thinozercon Halbert in the super-family Thinozerconoidea within the suborder Uropodina. The three superfamilies considered to constitute this suborder are characterised and distinguished in key form. /// Le mle et la deutronymphe de Protodinychus punctatus Evans, jusque l inconnus, sont dcrits; la femelle est redcrite en insistant sur la morphologie de la face dorsale de l'idiosome et la rgion gnitale. L'pigyne, constitu de trois sclrites, et la sparation partielle des acetabulums des coxas I dans la cavit gnathopodale sont remarquables. Outre ces caractres, Protodinychus prsente une mosaque de structures gamasodes et uropododes. P. punctatus peut tre considr comme le reprsentant le moins spcialis (le plus primitif?) des Uropodides; cette espce a t place, avec le genre Thinozercon Halbert, dans la superfamille des Thinozerconoidea. Les trois superfamilles constituant le sous-ordre des Uropodides sont dfinies et distingues par une clef de dtermination.
20494520|The rate constants for the gas-phase reaction of OH radicals and Cl atoms with sulphur dioxide have been determined at 298  2K and a total pressure of approximately 1atm using a competitive rate technique Values of the rate constants determined are k(OH + SO) = (68  08)  10 l/mol-s and k(Cl + SO) = (15  0.2)  10 l/mol-s. The mechanism and the importance of these reactions in the atmosphere are discussed.
20494828|In the interaction of potassium iodide and alkali hypochlorite solutions a number of rapid successive reactions occur which result in a net increase in hydrogen ion concentration. These reactions are studied by following the changes in acidity with a glass electrode in a titration procedure. From the nature of the titration curves the theory of the reaction mechanisms is worked out quantitatively. Theoretical titration curves are calculated and shown to agree with the experimental curves. From the curves it is also possible to estimate both the total hypochlorite content and the concentration of hypochlorous acid in the original samples. The values so obtained are compared with those found by direct analysis and a simple method for estimating these quantities is suggested. The effects of iodine monochloride formation on reaction equilibria is discussed.
20494422|The rate of development of the eggs and larval stages of the liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica, has been studied at various constant temperatures. Changing temperature experiments were carried out to determine whether these conditions had any extra effect on development. In three out of the four experiments with the eggs a significant accelerating effect on development was found and no effect was recorded in the fourth. The length of life of the miracidia was measured at various constant temperatures. With the larval stages in the snail Lymnaea truncatula no cercari were formed at 10C but several generations of daughter redi were recorded. On the other hand, no daughter redi were found at temperatures of 25C and over. Two changing temperature experiments were carried out and it was found that these conditions had no significant accelerating or retarding effect on development to release of the cercari. The significance of the results is discussed in the light of the development of forecasting models using climatic variables.
20494951|Eighteen appinitic intrusions, associated with the late-Caledonian Leinster Granite body in south-east Ireland, are described. They are typically coarse hornblende-bearing types, frequently with biotite, and pyroxene- and olivine-bearing members occur. Hornblende-rich diorites are also associated. The relation of these intrusions--areally and in time--to the major granite batholith is discussed.
20519006|An account is given of the present information available on the occurrence of Myocetophilidae in Ireland. This is based on material in museum and private collections, principally that of the author, while existing published records referring to about fifty species are evaluated. One hundred and sixty-five species are accepted as Irish but the limited data even for common species precludes any conclusions on distribution within Ireland. Although many additional species will probably be found in Ireland with further collecting, this is considered the time to give an introductory account. A general account of the habits and biology of fungus-gnats and a summary of taxonomic works relevant to the Irish fauna are also included by way of an introduction. The name Leia nasuta Haliday, previously unrecognised, is shown to be the valid name for the species misidentified as Boletina lundbecki Lundstrm by Edwards.
20494497|In this study we have investigated the structure of a sialo-tetrasaccharide (A2a) released from bovine submaxillary mucin by alkaline borohydride treatment. The structure, determined by a combination of 1-D and 2-D (COSY and RELAYED-COSY), H n.m.r. experiments at 270MHz, was as follows: Gal(1  4)GlcNAc(1  3)[NeuAc(2  6)] GalNAcol. We also present evidence for the occurrence of a second sialo-tetrasaccharide (A2b), Gal(1  4)GlcNAc(1  3)[NeuGc(2  6)]GalNAcol, shown to be present by h.p.l.c. and by H n.m.r. spectroscopy in a mixture with oligosaccharide (A2a). This is the first report of the isolation from bovine submaxillary mucin of a sialylated tetrasaccharide. Structure (A2a) has previously been found in cystic fibrosis bronchial mucin as well as rat and human colonic mucin, while structure (A2b) is novel.
20519012|Certain aspects are described of some of the approximately one hundred meltwater channels which formed during the multiple glaciation of County Dublin. A large number of marginal valleys developed as the last (i.e. Dublin) ice-sheet withdrew: they are discussed by reference to selected examples. The remaining groups are each represented in the field by only a few channels, so that most or all of these are mentioned individually.
20494512|Reaction of azide ion in aqueous solution with (Z) and (E)-O-acylbenzohydroximoyl chlorides (7) and (9) both lead to the formation of the same open-chain Z-hydroximoyl azide (8). The reaction is bimolecular involving addition of
20494414|A lanthanide-induced shift study using Eu(fod), Pr(fod) Yb(fod) in the spectrum of Me 4,6-O-benzylidene-2,3-di-O-methyl--d-glucopyranoside together with Gd(fod) relaxation data allowed location of lanthanide and determination of co-ordination geometry. Shifts calculated using an approximate model were in good agreement with the observed Pr(fod) data. A variable temperature H-n.m.r. study clearly showed that Yb(fod) complexation was not in the fast exchange regime at room temperature.
20494302|In cyclohexane solution the title compounds exhibit a single fluorescence band around 340 nm. In acetonitrile, dual luminescence is observed with bands at 340 and 480 nm. The intensity ratio of the emission bands depends on the excitation wavelength and the solvent composition in acetonitrile-protic solvent mixtures. The high-energy emission is ascribed to a planar charge-transfer electronic state and the low-energy emission to an isomer in which the MeN-group is twisted substantially out of the aromatic ring plane.
20494929|The water-soluble muscle proteins of the white muscle of fourteen species and two hybrid forms of Irish freshwater fishes were investigated by electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel. Each species showed a characteristic electrophoretogram pattern. It was found that in some species the protein pattern of white muscle varied with the part of the body from which it was taken. Changes in the muscle proteins with age, reported by other authors in the cod and salmon, were found in brown trout and rainbow trout.
20494496|1-(2-Hydroxyphenyl)-3-phenyl-1,3-propanediones, when substituted in the 2-position, undergo a retro Baker-Venkataraman rearrangement to form esters of 2-hydroxyacetophenone. When the 2-substituent is a hydroxy group, the ester formed, a 2-aroyloxy-2-hydroxyacetophenone, is the result of a Karrer rearrangement.
20494530|A series of aroylferrocenes RCHCOCHFeCH (R=H, p-CH, o-CH, p-OCH, o-OCH, p-Br and p-Cl) and their Cr(CO) complexes have been prepared and characterised. The radical anions of these compounds were prepared and their e.s.r. spectra obtained. The spectra of the compounds with and without a Cr(CO) group where R=H, p-CH and p-OCH were well enough resolved to observe hyperfine splittings which arise from the p and o-protons of the benzene ring and in some cases from the -protons of the substituted cyclopentadienyl ring. The hyperfine splittings of the Cr(CO) complexes are about half the value of those observed for the parent aroylferrocene, indicating that the Cr(CO) group is withdrawing a substantial amount of unpaired electron density. The results also indicate electron delocalisation throughout the CHCOCHR group and are consistent with the ferrocenyl group being more electron-releasing than phenyl.
20494278|The pre-Old Red Sandstone sequence of the Slievenamon Inlier is over 7000m in thickness and is practically devoid of megafossils. Palynological preparations of selected rock samples have revealed the presence of microfossils which give new evidence for the age of these rocks. The lowest rocks contain an assemblage of Upper Cambrian acritarchs, and the highest formation has yielded abundant plant spores of Wenlock age. The intervening rocks all contain assemblages indicating an early Ordovician age, and it is suggested that reworking, together with an original absence of potential fossil later Ordovician and Silurian microplankton may in part account for this. It is concluded that deposition in the area was probably continuous from Upper Cambrian to Wenlock times.
20518977|An investigation of the invertebrate fauna of the salt-marsh, North Bull Island, Dublin, was made during 1961-1963. 332 species are listed with notes on zonation, seasonal occurrence and abundance. The aquatic fauna of pans and channels is brackish in character and shows zonation according to a salinity gradient with the greatest number of species and highest faunal density in the lower zones. The fauna of the soil surface is influenced by tidal frequency but species occurring below a depth of 1cm are the same in all zones of the marsh. The great majority of aerial and vegetative species are found near the upper limits of the tidal zone and are not typical of salt-marshes.
20494467|During a day and night neuston survey in Galway Bay 89 species of benthic or other Peracaridea were recorded from surface (0-100mm) and subsurface (120-480mm) water. The total number of species and individuals in night samples, taken from May to September 1984, increased significantly as water temperature rose. With the aid of factor analysis interspecific similarity in behaviour was isolated giving eight species groups. Most species underwent a nocturnal vertical migration from the benthos to surface water, while the migrations of other species (Jassa, Dexamine) were less confined to the nocturnal period. Some species (Idotea, Gammarus) were associated with driftweed while Gammarellus spp occurred freely swimming at the surface both day and night. Only males of many benthohyponeustonic amphipods and cumaceans were recorded. These were mainly soft-bottom dwelling infaunal species. Species associated with driftweed, mysids and some amphipods occurred mainly as juveniles. The adaptive functions of pelagic behaviour and its consequences for benthic community dynamics are discussed. This behaviour recurs consistently in the same genera in other geographic regions.
20518861|The Caradoc conglomerates at Grangegeeth are shown to overlie a series of tuffs and shales of Llanvirn age which were previously undated. Shales above the conglomerates have yielded a prolific trilobite fauna associated with graptolites. The age of these beds, which is low in the Caradoc, is discussed.
20494918|1. Foot pad surface temperatures of rats adapted to 8C and 20C and measured at the adaptation temperature differed by approximately 10. 2. Aldolase showed no change in activity in pad muscle from 8 as compared with 20 adapted rats. 3. Succinic dehydrogenase had an increased activity in foot pad muscle from 8 adapted rats as compared with similar muscle from 20 adapted animals. 4. When one foot of a cold-adapted rat was kept warm while the rest of the animal remained at 8 the succinic dehydrogenase activity in the pad muscle of this foot showed a significant fall as compared with the other one. 5. Plantar muscles from warm-adapted rats were cultured at 10 and 30. The activity of succinic dehydrogenase in the 10 cultured muscle was lower than in the warm culture. It is suggested that there is some agent (possibly a hormone) affecting the activity of the enzyme and this has a different effect when the tissue is warm as compared with when it is cold.
20494378|Four species of planktonic ctenophores were recorded from the west coast of Ireland with Pleurobrachia pileus being the most consistently sampled and most numerous species. The presence of Bere gracilis is doubtful. Occurrences of Bolinopsis and Bere species were relatively few; they were mainly in the summer. In Galway Bay, the number of P. pileus fluctuated greatly, but usually reached a maximum in late spring to early summer; a lesser peak occurred in late autumn to early winter. The species exhibits a patchy distribution and a seasonal shift in the centre of distribution in the bay. Spawning appears to be continuous, with three to four or more generations per annum. The occurrences of Bere spp in the bay, although brief, may have exerted a predatory pressure on P. pileus.
20519036|The distribution and size of Fucus spiralis and the fauna associated with this upper littoral wrack in Strangford Lough have been studied. Various physical parameters were measured at each of several sites and correlated with the distribution of the wrack and its associated fauna. Factors favourable to the establishment of this fucoid were also favourable to the growth of individual plants. A total of fourteen associated taxa was recorded, six of which occurred at more than half the sampling sites. No encrusting or sessile species were found. The total faunal biomass per ml of plant tissue increased with plant volume. The fauna associated with F. spiralis and F. ceranoides were not significantly different but Pelvetia canaliculata, although occurring at much the same tidal level, had a lower total faunal biomass per ml of plant tissue than either of these fucoids.
20494909|A detailed stratigraphic sequence has been deduced from medium-grade metamorphic rocks which form the envelope of the Slieve Gamph igneous complex. The rocks are similar to typical Dalradian lithologies and the detailed sequence is tentatively correlated with the Kilmacrenan Dalradian succession of Donegal. Two distinct types of amphibolite rock are observed. One type appears to have formed contemporaneously with the sedimentation of the Dalradian rocks; the other type occurs as intrusive masses which were emplaced during the folding of the metasedimentary rocks.
20519048|The stratigraphy, sedimentology and paleontology of the Silurian inlier of the Galty Mountain area are described. The succession is divided into two formations. The thickly bedded, mid-grey turbidites of the Inchacoomb Formation, yielding only a fragmentary fauna of little biostratigraphical significance, are succeeded by the darker, siltier greywackes of the Ballygeana Formation, which contains a notably greater proportion of interbedded siltstones and mudstones. Graptolites from the Ballygeana Formation indicate the presence of the lower to middle Wenlock zones: centrifugus, riccartonensis, and linnarssoni. A single diplograptid may indicate a Llandovery age for the base of this formation. An estimated thickness of 2875m is suggested for the Silurian succession.
20518927|This is the sixth contribution from the west coast plankton investigation programme and details the occurrence in the Galway Bay area of forty-two species of pelagic Cnidaria. Some of these are recorded for the first time, and others have only rarely been noted, in Irish waters. They are the results of surveys carried out from 1956-72. Some conclusions are drawn as to the abundance and seasonal occurrence of these forms in the area. Previous Irish records for the species encountered have been reviewed synonymously and the work provides a check-list for the occurrence of these forms in Irish inshore waters.
20519011|The abundance and occurrence of the oceanic chaetognaths Sagitta tasmanica Thompson and Krohnitta subtilis Grassi was observed in the plankton of Galway Bay, 1972-1973. It is suggested that these animals are recruited with intrusions of open sea water into the Galway Bay area at certain times of the year.
20518855|The Ardara granite pluton is made up of two intrusive units. A study of their chemistry shows that they were produced by the contamination of an acid parent magma by a mixture of two kinds of country rock: metamorphosed basic igneous rock (metadolerite) and pelitic rocks rich in potassium and aluminium. The proportion of pelitic to basic rocks was greater in the material assimilated by the Outer Unit than in that assimilated by the Central Unit. The textural relations between the feldspars can be used to confirm the magmatic origin of the uncontaminated rocks in the Central Unit. Features indicative of replacement are present in the contaminated rocks of the Central Unit and in the Outer Unit, and are related to the reaction of assimilated material with the magma. If the chemistry of the granites and their associated appinites is compared with that of Scottish Caledonian igneous rocks the variation of individual elements is similar, but it can be shown that the trend of enrichment or depletion of most elements would be the same for a series of contaminated magmas as for a series of differentiated magmas. The variation of potassium and rubidium does however provide clear evidence for the process of contamination. Their variation in the Ardara pluton is markedly different to that in Scottish Caledonian igneous rocks because of the unusually high potassium and rubidium contents of the pelitic rocks assimilated by the former.
20494950|This is the first detailed qualitative and quantitative investigation of the larval and post-larval fish in the plankton of Irish waters. The area, stretching from Blacksod Bay to just south of Loop Head, was investigated during the period August, 1958 to February, 1966. Larvae and/or post-larvae of sixty-eight species of fish are recorded from the inshore plankton (within the fifty fathom line) of the west coast. Neither larvae nor post-larvae of thirty-nine of the species are previously recorded in Irish waters. In addition, six of the remaining species are recorded for the first time in the larval, post-larval stages along the west coast. A description of the larval stages of three species, not previously described, is given: they are, Hyperoplus immaculatus, Atherina presbyter and Diplecogaster bimaculata, a drawing of the larval A. presbyter is included; descriptions and drawings of post-larvae of Diplecogaster bimaculata and a Gaidropsarus species, believed to be G. vulgaris, neither previously described, are given; drawings are given of the earliest post-larval stages of Pollachius pollachius and Labrus mixtus to be recorded to date. A description is given of the larval and early post-larval stages of a Coryphoblennius species, together with a drawing of an early post-larval stage.
20518926|This paper describes the glacial stratigraphy of an area of 800km in eastern Cos. Meath and Louth, eastern Ireland (Fig. 1). Four till formations and one glacio-marine formation have been recognised within the Pleistocene succession. The Drogheda Till Formation is the earliest till known in the area and was formed by an ice sheet glaciation which moved south-eastwards over the Drogheda area from north central Ireland. This is directly overlain by the glacio-marine Mell Formation. The Mell Formation is succeeded by the Tullyallen Till Formation which was formed when a major ice sheet expanded over the east coast plain from the Irish Sea Basin. The Tullyallen Till is overlain stratigraphically by the Gilltown Till Formation which was deposited by the last ice sheet of inland origin which moved south-eastwards over the area. The Dunleer Till Formation was formed during a major southward readvance of the last ice sheet in north Co. Louth. No datable organic deposits are known to occur between the five formations. It has proved difficult to assign the lower formations in this succession to any particular cold stage of the Pleistocene because of the absence of known, intraformational organic deposits.
20519059|Specimens of Hydrilla verticillata (L. fil.) Royle (sensu lato) from Ireland and from north-eastern Poland were found to be diploid, with 2n = 16, and all plants were shown to have virtually identical idiograms. Another clone of unknown origin, long cultivated in the Botanical Garden of Krakw University, was triploid; its idiogram is compared with that of the diploids. These results are confronted with previously published accounts of Asiatic material. The chromosomes of Elodea nuttallii (Planchon) St. John, an American plant recently naturalised in Europe and spreading rapidly, were examined in specimens from the Netherlands. They had a chromosome number of 2n = 48, and the chromosomes showed a morphology very distinct from those of Hydrilla. These data confirm the conclusion of Scannell and Webb, that the plant from Renvyle, Co. Galway, must be referred to Hydrilla and not to Elodea.
20494871|The study of the Irish Tubificidae has been largely neglected since the publication of a check list by Southern in 1909. The only other person to have concerned himself with them was Friend, whose taxonomic studies and identifications are unreliable (Cernosvitov 1941). Accordingly, it appeared that a complete revision of the Irish tubificids was ong overdue. In this paper an attempt is made to bring knowledge of the Irish tubificids up to date and into line with the European species. The literature pertaining to the Irish tubificids is here reviewed. In addition, the results of an examination of Southern's specimens are presented, together with information gained from visiting sites and making further collections. It has proved possible to confirm or correct the identity of most of the earlier records by a study of their descriptions, by examination of specimens or by both and to bring the nomenclature up to date. As a result of this survey, seventeen species are now recognised as occurring in Ireland, six of which are new Irish records. All of these are encountered, more or less commonly, in Britain.
20518943|Miospores are described for the first time from the Upper Devonian-?Upper Carboniferous Cork Beds of southern Ireland. Some local and regional correlations are proposed, and age determinations including the position of the Devonian/Carboniferous boundary are suggested by comparison with miospore successions established elsewhere in western Europe. Two subzones are recognised within the NV miospore zone of Neves et al. (1972). The names and definitions of some local lithostratigraphical units have been revised.
20518957|Columnea L. as found in the Caribbean area is represented by the sections Columnea, Pterygoloma (Hanstein) Fritsch and Collandra (Lemaire) Bentham. Alloplectus ambiguus Urban and A. domingensis Urban are both transferred to a more widely defined sect. Collandra in Columnea. A key is given to the sections and species and the latter are described with synonymy, herbarium citations and chromosome number if counted.
20494543|The parameters affecting the mass transfer coefficients for external transport of basic dyes from aqueous solution onto activated carbon particles have been studied. The external mass transfer coefficients have been found to vary with initial dye concentration, particle size and adsorbent mass on log-log coordinates. The external mass transfer coefficient,
20494456|The biology of the solenette Buglossidium luteum was examined between March 1978 and September 1979. A total of 268 fish were collected on sandy bottoms off the north shore of Galway Bay. The population was mainly composed of nine-year-old fish, but specimens may live up to sixteen years. Most growth occurs in the first two to three years of life, after which there is a gradual reduction. Females appear to grow faster and live longer than males. The largest fish captured was a female measuring 118cm (133cm T.L.). The fish mature in their third year of life. The spawning period extends from May to August. The solenette is a carnivore, the diet consisting mainly of amphipods, polychtes, copepods and molluscs.
20494877|A series of unfossiliferous beds, possibly of Arenig age, is overlain by 1500 ft. of graptolitic Llanvirn mudstones with welded tuffs, spilites and mudflows. The Llanvirn succession is capped by a thin, calcareous horizon containing what is considered to be an Upper Llanvirn shelly fauna. The Llanvirn rocks are succeeded by a succession of Caradoc shales, mudstones and calcareous ashes with a Diplograptus multidens zone graptolitic fauna in its lower part and an Actonian shelly fauna above. The maximum thickness of the series is about 1000 ft. The area has suffered a general low grade metamorphism resulting in the sporadic development of metamorphic spotting and minerals belonging to the zeolite facies.
20518893|The fifth contribution from the west coast plankton investigation programme results from the first qualitative and quantitative survey of the Chaetognatha of the inshore plankton of Irish waters. The areas sampled, during the years 1958-1966, are Mutton Island, Galway Bay, Killeany Bay, Inishmore, Aran Islands and Kilkieran Bay, Connemara. Four species of Chaetognatha are recorded and mention is made of their probable breeding time off the west coast. The distribution of the individual species of chaetognath is related to that of various other members of the plankton and their value as indicators of water masses of different origins is assessed. The greater yield of fish larvae from a particular area is associated with better survival of fish larvae in water of mixed origins as typified by the presence of Sagitta elegans.
20494294|The configurations of 3-arylmethylenethioflavanones prepared by the condensation of thioflavanones and araldehydes and of their photoisomers are assigned on the basis of n.m.r. spectroscopy. The 1,1-dioxide derivatives of trans-3-arylmethylenethioflavanones are also described.
20494416|The incorporation of [2-H]-myo-inositol into the phosphatidyl inositols of mouse inflammatory peritoneal macrophages gave labelled phospholipid from these cells. Chemical degradation followed by chromatographic comparison with unlabelled standards enabled confirmation of the myo-inositol-1(glyceryl-1-phosphate) structure. G.l.c.-mass spectrometry indicated that the principal fatty acids in the 1, 2-sn-diacyl glyceryl moiety were stearate, palmitate, linoleate, oleate and arachidonate. Incorporation of (13- C)-arachidonic acid into the phosphatidyl inositols and enzymic hydrolysis with phospholipase A showed that this acid is predominantly at the glyceryl-2-position.
20519004|The Bray Group crops out over an area of 200 sq km and can be divided into two Formations. These are the Devil's Glen Formation (2000m) and the overlying Bray Head Formation (2500m+). The former comprises massive, generally unlaminated greywackes and slates. The latter is characterised by well laminated greywackes and interstratified quartzites. Microfossils from the Bray Head Formation indicate a late Lower to early Middle Cambrian age. The rocks are bounded on the west and south by Cambrian - Ordovician age strata of the Ribband Group. All the rocks are turbidites. No palaeocurrent data are available for the older Formation. The greywackes of the younger Formation have an approximate northerly derivation. They are probably derived from Precambrian rocks similar to those of the Rosslare Complex. The interstratified quartzites may have been derived from rocks similar to those of the Precambrian Cullenstown Formation of County Wexford. The Bray Group forms a large thrust mass overlying the Ribband Group and comprises a complex syncline and subsidiary anticline. Translation was broadly westwards. These structures originated during a precleavage deformation which also includes slumping. A syncleavage deformation corresponding to the early regional fold phase already established in adjacent areas is represented by folds which show marked plunge variations. A wide belt of very steep plunges occurs in the south; elsewhere the fold axes are more or less horizontal. Numerous faults are present, some of which are several kilometres in length.
20494484|Magilligan Foreland, Ireland's largest coastal accumulation, has yielded nineteen high-precision C dates (from wood, peat, charcoal, soil organic matter, marine shell and freshwater marl) and nine low-precision C dates (from marine shell). Although none of the C dates obtained is older than 4500 yearts B.P., the series of beach ridge probably began to accumulate c. 7000-6500 years B.P. Integration of the C dates with geomorphological, pedological and archaeo-logical evidence suggests a complex late Holocene history. The erliest preserved palaeotopography, an extensive beadch ridge plain, passes northwards into a sequence of penecontemporaneous aeolian dunes. This experienced considerable pedogenesis over a period of c. 3000 years. Peat formation began in the inter-ridge depressions as early as c. 2500 years B.P. Podzolic and brown soils developed on the ridge crests and slopes. Archaeological remains indicate permanent settlement in the Early Christian period. About 1200-600 years B.P., the Lough Foyle margin of Magilligan was buried by northward-migrating aeolian dunes. The dune system eroded to a planar surface delimited by lithomorphic soils which were in turn buried by modern dune sands, possibly associated with the extensive rabbit warrens of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Shore-plarallel dunes along the north-east coast of Magilligan have probably formed since c. 700 years B.P. Rapid erosion since the early 1950s has resulted in 200m progradation at Magilligan Point.
20518928|There are approximately 1,250 drumlins in Co. Clare. Their occurrence and orientation is largely controlled by topography. Many of the drumlins occur as ridges of glacial till elongated in the direction of ice-movement but with little or no development of the "classical" stoss end. Drumlins may be composed of tills of varying geological composition or of stratified drift material. This suggests either the mixing of till material before final deposition or the building of drumlins by successive applications of drift material.
20494501|Benzeneselenyl bromide reacts with some ,-unsaturated ethyl esters to give the expected, but rather unstable, bromoselenides derived by Markovnikov addition of the reagent. These can be dehydrobrominated to give the corresponding -benzeneselenyl-,-unsaturated esters Attempted Michael addition of benzeneselenol to the related -bromo-,-unsaturated esters leads to formation of the same bromoselenides as are obtained above, presumably via intramolecular migration of the benzeneselenyl group in an initially-formed ethyl -bromo--benzeneselenylalkanoate through the intermediacy of a cyclic seleniranium ion.
20494254|The last glaciation of the Sperrin Mountains and adjacent areas occurred between 30,500 and 13,000 years B.P. The maximum extension of the ice sheet probably terminated near the mouth of Lough Foyle and in northern Donegal at the Moville Moraine stage which marks the limit of the drumlins in north-west Ireland. The paper gives a detailed account of the moraine stages and associated landforms of fluvioglacial erosion and deposition that were formed during the southward retreat of the ice sheet across north-western Londonderry and Tyrone and through the Sperrin Mountains to the source regions of ice-flow in Lough Neagh, central Tyrone and the Omagh Basin. It is concluded that the ice sheet remained dynamically active until the deglaciation of the Sperrin Mountains had been completed and that the axis of accumulation which controlled the regional pattern of ice movements always lay to the south of the watershed of the Main Sperrin Range.
20519049|This paper records thirty-three species of the Hydrachnellae, with observations on distributions and relative densities, from the River Finn System and the Oweneagh River, Co. Donegal.
20494957|A succession of about 4,700 ft of red and green siltstones, sandstones and pebbly arkoses covering 7 square miles on the south-west side of Clew Bay is described. The succession represents shallow intertidal zone and fluviatile deposition to the south of an extensive area of low and high grade metamorphic rocks with local contemporaneous acid vulcanism. Despite the lack of fossil evidence, the succession is correlated with the shallow marine shelf sediments of Silurian age within the Croagh Patrick Synclinorium to the south. These two areas have comparable first and second phase deformation structures. In the Louisburgh area a third deformation produced large-scale southward thrusting of at least 1 miles on the basal thrust, bringing a littoral facies over the more deformed marine shelf deposits to the south. A fourth deformation produced a monoclinal refolding of earlier structures along the line of a series of small cold serpentinite intrusions emplaced under high gas pressure. D.3 and D.4 structures are probably post-Middle O.R.S. and pre-Carboniferous in age.
20494488|Haliday proposed eight generic names for the family Ephydridae, namely Atissa, Hecamede, Hyadina, Ilythea, Pelina, Glenanthe, Axysta and Halmopota. He also proposed 27 specific names, five of which are considered to be synonyms. The remaining 22 are currently recognised as valid. The insect collections of the National Museum of Ireland contain specimens that relate to the descriptions of Haliday's genera and species. These are listed to include the number of specimens, with other pertinent information under each species. A summary of the work done on the collection since Haliday reveals that the specimens are arranged according to the identifications of J. E. Collin, dating from 1912. There are three type designations, including those of J. E. Collin in 1953 (published 1964), W. N. Mathis in 1977 and P. J. Clausen in 1982 (published 1983), for the species Setacera micans, Lamproscatella sibilans and Axysta cesta respectively. There appear to be no specimens for the two Haliday species Hyadina scutellata and Scatophila compta, or for the two Haliday genera Hyadina and Halmopota.
20494433|A complete core from the compressed peat and compressed lake-mud deposit at Benburb, Co. Tyrone (H 8098 5202), was processed. The pollen profile confirmed that the deposit was an interglacial sequence. Geographic variations in the floristic composition of the vegetation in central Ireland as compared to the south and west are indicated with the interglacial.
20494366|The synthesis of a number of substituted 4-arylhydrazono-5-pyrazolones and 4-arylazopyrazoles is described. Several of these compounds, having a 1-amidino substituent, showed considerable activity against the P.388 mouse leukaemia.
20494443|Of thirty-four halacarid species recorded from the Strangford Narrows and the adjacent Irish Sea twenty-six were present in the samples taken along the sublittoral fringe in the Narrows and twenty-four in the samples obtained from the Irish Sea at depths of 30-42m. Twenty-one species are new to Ireland. Halacarellus southerni (Halbert, 1915) is redescribed. H. areolatus (Halbert, 1915) is considered to be a synonym of H capuzinus (Lohmann, 1893). Copidognathus graveolus Monniot, 1962, and C. lubricellus Bartsch, 1977, prove to be junior synonyms of C septentrionalis Halbert, 1915.
20494411|Electrochemical reduction and photochemical reaction of i-(2-chlorophenyl)-j-phenyltriazoles both give an excellent yield of the tetracyclic triazolophenanthridine product except from some triazoles with three adjacent phenyl substituents. The latter show both cyclization and hydrogen atom abstraction from the solvent by the radical which results after cleavage of the carbon-chlorine bond. Reductive dehalogenation is effective where the substrate adopts a conformation disfavouring the cyclization reaction.
20494495|Clofazimine is an established part of the standard antimycobacterial chemotherapy of leprosy. We have been seeking analogues active against clofazimine-resistant organisms. Using a test organism made resistant to clofazimine (Mycobacterium smegmatis 607 CR), we identified a series of analogues with the required activity. Preliminary tests showed that not all of the agents were absorbed when fed to mice. Accordingly the uptake by the mouse of some thirty agents given by gavage was studied and the best-absorbed were selected for further testing against M leprae in vivo. In general the absorption was poor for those analogues containing a primary or secondary nitrogen in the alkyl side chain present on the iminonitrogen. The tertiary compounds are well absorbed. Eight compounds were selected for screening in the mouse.
20518918|A sparker survey of Lough Swilly, Co. Donegal, revealed two channels in the acoustic basement resulting from glacial overdeepening along fault lines. The first reaches a depth of 170 metres and is attributed to the Leannan fault. The second is the result of a north/south fault, the Lough Swilly fault, which in the south has a N30W orientation. The basement in Trawbreaga Bay also shows channels attributed to faults, the distribution of which lend support to Pitcher et al.'s suggestion (1964) that the Leannan fault is cross-faulted in Trawbreaga Bay. It is suggested that the shape of Lough Swilly is structurally controlled and that the lough has considerable affinities to a fjord.
20518900|Some Michael reactions of ethyl fluorene-9-carboxylate, deoxybenzoin, ethyl benzoylacetate and 1-tetralone with acetylenic esters and ketones are reported. The cis- and trans-isomers of the adduct of 6-methylflavanone and 2-hydroxy-5-methylchalcone are described.
20494910|The constancy of the central temperature of the body has been shown to depend on the coincidence of a rise in oxygen consumption with falling temperature which prevents the temperature of the deeper tissue from falling and of increase in the rate of flow of blood with rising temperature to a level capable of abstracting more heat than is produced. It appears probable that febrile temperature might be the result of a change in the temperature at which this coincidence occurs and that the action of antipyretic drugs in restoring the normal relations might be related to this. The influence of Typhoid vaccine and of sodium salicylate on the oxygen consumption of human saliva is examined. These substances cause marked changes in the relation of oxygen consumption to temperature. The relation of these disturbances to the colloidal structure of the mitochondria on the one hand and to fever and inflammation on the other are discussed.
20494881|Mapping of the eastern part of the Dingle Bay-Buttevant fold belt has established a Dinantian limestone succession with both Tournaisian and Visan 'reef' limestones. Volcanic rocks occur above the Lower Reef Limestone. The succession, of Zaphrentis to Upper Dibunophyllum zonal age, is divided into named formations for each of which characteristic fossils are listed.
20518917|Excavations of surface deposits at Tullyallen Quarry 1.5km north-west of Drogheda revealed a formation of glaciomarine deposits at 29.4 to 40.0m O.D. between two till formations. The glaciomarine deposits contain a cold water fauna of mollusca, crustacea, ostracoda, foraminifera, hydrozoa, and also sparse remains of land plants and marine algae. The upper till formation was deposited by ice from the Irish Sea Basin which moved in a south-westerly direction across the site. The lower till formation was deposited by ice from the Irish midlands, which moved eastwards and south-eastwards towards the Irish Sea Basin. These deposits overlie a variety of residual deposits that are sealed in solution pipes and fissures within the karstic surface of the Lower Carboniferous limestones. The glaciomarine and glacial deposits are considered to belong to the Munsterian Cold Stage of the Pleistocene Period; the residual deposits being older.
20494852|The metamorphic rocks of N. W. Mayo are mainly or entirely Dalradian; possibly the lowest members are of Moinian age. They are pelitic and psammitic metasedimens and subordinate limestones, with a greywacke grou at the top. Metadolerite sills occur at intervals. The pelitic schists bear kyanite in the orth, though over most of N. W. Mayo they are of garnet grade. In the north-west of the area there is a migmatite zone, the rocks being mainly granitic gneisses. The wide development of porphyroblastic oligoclase and albite in the schists is thought to be related to the migmatisation. A structural and stratigraphical correlation between the southern and northern parts of the area, investigated separately by the two authors, is proposed. Correlation with the Scottish Dalradian is difficult; it is considered that the firmest marker horizon is provided by a quartzite series with a boulder bed near its base, these being thought to represent the Islay quartzite and Portaskaig conglomerate.
20518972|Zeolites Cr(III)NaA, Cr(III)NaX, Cr(III)NaY, Y(III)NaA, Y(III)NaX, Y(III)NaY, Fe(III)NaY and Tl(I)Y have been prepared and characterised by sorption of carbon dioxide and ammonia. All sorbents, except TlNaY, showed no loss of crystallinity after several outgassings at 350C and sorption. From an analysis of sorption isotherms, isosteric heats, differential entropies of sorption and heats of immersion data it was concluded that the M cations were not accessible to carbon dioxide but were accessible to ammonia molecules; furthermore there was evidence that the trivalent cations were more accessible to ammonia in the Y than in the X-zeolite. The carbon dioxide sorption data were well described by characteristic curves according to the Polanyi potential theory provided that a fixed molar volume was taken.
20519061|The Lower Palaeozoic sequence of Slieve Aughty is divided into five formations and evidence from rare graptolites and poorly preserved acritarchs is used to date them as follows Toberelatan Formation, Upper Llandeilo - Lower Caradoc, gracilis (? peltifer) Zone, Caher Hill Formation,? Upper Llandeilo to Lower Caradoc, peltifer (? gracilis) Zone, Gortnagleav Formation, undated (? Mid-Caradoc to? Late Llandovery), Derryfadda Formation, Late Llandovery (? crispus Zone) to? Upper Wenlock, Killanena Formation, Late Llandovery to? Upper Wenlock. Correlation with the adjacent inliers of Slieve Bernagh, Broadford Mountains, Cratloe Hills and Slieve Arra is suggested.
20494429|Features generally considered periglacial in origin such as involutions, frost cracks, silt cappings, coarse and fine head, mass movement and tors are described and discussed for Forth Mountain, Co. Wexford. A chronological sequence for their formation is proposed.
20519039|The data resulting from a survey of the arthropod fauna of some common grass and weed species of pasture were analysed on the basis of (a) relative abundance, frequency and fidelity, (b) indices of similarity and (c) principal coordinate analysis in order to ascertain whether discrete plant-arthropod associations could be detected. The results indicated the presence of such associations to varying degrees, particularly in the cases of the grass species Dactylis glomerata L. and Lolium perenne L. and of the stinging nettle, Urtica dioica L. However, there was considerable interaction between the faunas of the various plant species and many of the dominant arthropod species showed little host plant preference. The data indicated that floral diversity, faunal diversity and faunal stability were correlated. However, numbers of the dominant arthropod group present--tarsonemid mites--were not correlated with total arthropod species diversity nor with numbers of predatory mites. It is suggested that factors other than floral diversity including microbial distribution, age and spatial heterogeneity of the sward and management system being practised may also be of considerable significance in promoting and maintaining the diversity and stability of grassland arthropods.
20494894|Compounds prepared by the condensation of periodate-oxidised polysaccharides with various thiosemicarbazides have been found to show antitumour activity both in vitro against HeLa cells and against the solid, transplantable Sarcoma 180 in mice. While the nature of the polysaccharide appears to be relatively unimportant, that of the thiosemicarbazide is critical. A single alkyl or aralkyl group, substituted at the 4-position, is necessary for significant activity but further substitution of the thiosemicarbazide leads to products of less or no activity. The most active compounds prepared were those from 4-methylthiosemicarbazide. The oxypolysaccharide-thiosemicarbazide derivatives appear to become involved in Vitamin B metabolism.
20494266|The structural investigation of a thick sequence of metasediments of Middle and Upper Dalradian age on the north-east coast of Inishowen reveals five fold phases. Early F1 structures trending approximately north-east/south-west have been refolded by a major F2 antiform overturned to the north-west which has produced a downward facing succession in the second cleavage. Later fold phases of varying style F3, F4 and F5 refold this structure. Subsequent brittle deformation has produced a complex fault and joint pattern.
20494259|Palaeomagnetic measurements reveal a systematic difference between the directions of magnetisation of the limestones of north Co. Dublin and those of other parts of the country. The possibilities of a rotation of the Dublin region and/or the selective remagnetisation of the area are discussed. On the evidence at present available it would appear that rotation is the more probable cause.
20494795|A synorogenic ultrabasic and basic intrusion is described. Due to faulting two cross-sections through the synclinally shaped body are exposed. The intrusion hornfelsed its regionally metamorphosed envelope of sillimanite- and almandine-bearing metasediments and the continuing regional metamorphism and folding altered the intrusion itself and so did subsequent migmatisation. The igneous rocks originally varied from olivine--two--pyroxene rocks to olivine-free gabbros and norites but metamorphism caused widespread amphibolisation and amphibole, usually hornblende, but occasionally anthophyllite and cummingtonite, is now a major constituent of all the rocks. The optically determined compositions of the olivine (Fo to Fo), plagioclase (An and An to An) and orthopyroxene (En to En) are given together with ten chemical analyses of rocks and one of a hypersthene, En. Cryptic variation in the Fe content of orthopyroxene and hornblende is shown. Comparison with other ultrabasic bodies in Connemara suggests that there was only one period of ultrabasic intrusion in Connemara.
20494262|Previous research on the Irish Chironomidae is outlined. Prior to this study a total of ninety-nine species was on record. In this survey collections of larvae, pupae and imagines were obtained from eighty locations. One hundred and seventy-four species are identified of which one hundred and seventeen are new Irish records. A taxonomic list of two hundred and sixteen chironomid species known to occur in Ireland, with some notes on their distribution, is given.
20494384|Monthly samples of the painted goby, Pomatoschistus pictus (Malm) were taken, from November 1976 to October 1977, at two shores near Carna, Co. Galway. The species exhibits major growth during its first summer and autumn after which gonad maturation begins. The breeding season lasts from February to June after which the 1-group fish (as determined by scale examination) undergo a period of renewed growth before most of them disappear. Fecundity is correlated with fish size and time of year but shows considerable individual variation. Feeding intensity drops sharply from November to January but rises again during the breeding season. Nearly sixty per cent of the diet is crustacean with harpacticoids and amphipods the most important items. Some seasonal variation in the consumption of food types occurs. There is a considerable similarity with the biology of the sympatrically occurring two-spotted goby, Gobiusculus flavescens.
20494553|A total of eighteen species of mosquito, including the Anopheles maculipennis complex, is recorded from Ireland, of which five-Anopheles algeriensis Theobald, Aedes caspius (Pallas), Aedes dorsalis (Meigen), Aedes punctor (Kirby) and Aedes rusticus (Rossi)--are new. In addition, two doubtful species, Aedes cinereus Meigen and Aedes cantans (Meigen), are confirmed as occurring in Ireland. A lectotype for Aedes (Ochlerotatus) detritus Haliday is designated.
20518988|The Irish leech fauna includes thirteen species, and doubtful records exist for a further two. The distribution of these species at 411 localities throughout Ireland is described in terms of vice-county and 10km-square grid recording schemes. The altitudinal distribution and island records of species are discussed. It is concluded that the leech fauna shows little sign of impoverishment attributable to the post glacial isolation of Ireland. Enigmatic parallels in distribution of leeches and other freshwater macro-invertebrates are outlined and discussed.
20494328|In Drumurcher Townland, Co. Monaghan, Ireland (H 521 172), the re-investigation of an alluvial flat between drumlins of Late Midlandian age showed Nahanagan grey sand and grey muddy silt (C date 10,515  195 BP; pollen-zone III) under early Littletonian brown mud (pollen-zones IVa & IVb). From fossil remains taxa were identified as follows: Vascular plants 90; Mosses 30; Coleoptera 100. Several of the taxa are new to the Irish record. The deposit documents the change-over from the severe conditions of the final lateglacial to postglacial warmth.
20519037|Observations on approximately 1500 joint sets at sixteen localities on the north coast of Co. Antrim and Co. Londonderry reveal the presence of a regional joint system. The major joint sets strike at 350, 330, 290, 270, 240 and 210, with minor faults parallel to such trends. The joint system is ascribed to a tectonic origin, whilst the pattern developed in Carboniferous strata is amenable to a possible mechanical interpretation. An unexpected result of the study is the occurrence of widespread tectonic joint sets in the Eocene basalts. There is little evidence to support the hypothesis that such a joint system was produced by inheritance, and upward propagation of a Pre-Cambrian fracture system in basement.
20518970|Available information on thermal springs in Ireland is given, together with a description of the fauna and flora of one in particular. The species composition and annual variations in the flora of a large permanent spring at Enfield, Co. Meath, are described. Elements of the fauna are enumerated and data on the growth rates of two species are offered. A tentative food chain for the Enfield spring is presented.
20494432|Acetylation of benzyl -d-xylopyranoside with 4 equivalents of acetic anhydride in the presence of anhydrous sodium acetate at room temperature gave the crystalline 2,4(1) and 3,4(2) diacetates of benzyl -d-xylopyranoside together with the 2,3,4-triacetate 3. Detritylation of the crude mixture obtained by selective triphenylmethylation and subsequent acetylation of benzyl -d-mannopyranoside afforded crystalline benzyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl--d-mannopyranoside (4, 47%).
20494866|The area of Dalradian rocks under discussion lies at the south-west end of the Ox Mountains and is bound to the south-east by Old Red Sandstone often showing a faulted relationship. The oldest rocks forming the Ox Mountains are overlapped by Carboniferous Limestone on both the north and south sides. The stratigraphy and petrography of the Dalradian indicates a succession belonging essentially to a greywacke sequence comparable to those of the upper part of the Cowal succession of the south-west Highlands of Scotland and the Sperrin Mountains of north-west Ireland. A sequence of metamorphic events has been recognised involving garnet grade of regional metamorphism and culminating in thrust movements from a north-west direction which have brought the succession to lie on top of the main Ox Mountain migmatites and metasediments, in a series of thrust sheets separated by imbricate zones.
20494932|One hundred and ten Charadrii (waders) of 10 different species were examined for helminth parasites between the periods September to March for three years from 1964. A total of 50 helminth species was recorded including 41 new records for Ireland, 15 for Britain and 38 new host records. In addition, a new species of tapeworm belonging to the family Hymenolepididae (Cyclophyllidea) was discovered. The results of the survey are presented as a systematic list of helminths with details of incidence and intensity of infection. This survey is the first investigation into the helminths of wild birds in Ireland since the work of Bellingham (1844). Results dealing with the ecological aspects of this study will be published later.
20518913|Some facts are presented concerning the nature of the sub - Old Red Sandstone surface in Ireland south of a line from Galway to Dublin. It is concluded that the surface behaves regionally as a plane, folded and faulted by Armorican movements. Exceptions to this are a "scarp" feature through the Galty Mountains, and the more lately covered Leinster massif. Otherwise irregularities are on a small, though variable, scale.
20494258|A shelly fauna recovered from the Mweelrea Grits exposed at Uggool on the north side of the entrance to Killary Harbour, County Mayo, includes molluscan and trilobitic fragments and a relatively rich brachiopod assemblage. Seven genera have been recognised, one of which is represented by the new species Rhysostrophia hibernica. This species and other taxa like Eremotoechia, Hesperonomiella, Pleurorthis, Toquimia and Valcourea are strictly diagnostic of the early Ordovician American Province and of the top of the Rhysostrophia subzone of the Whiterock Stage, a time-stratigraphic unit which is applicable to shelly facies within that Province and broadly equivalent to the Upper Arenig, Llanvirn and Lower Llandeilo of the standard succession.
20494295|The four possible stereoisomeric 3-arylmethylene-6-methylthioflavanone epoxides were synthesised and their configurations assigned by means of stereospecific epoxidation of cis-and trans-3-benzylidene-6-methylthioflavanones with sodium hypochlorite and by n.m.r. analyses.
20494945|Trace element data are given for three olivines, seven clino-pyroxenes and five magnetites separated from a Tertiary layered gabbro. One new major element analysis of a clino-pyroxene is included. Also analysed for trace elements are twenty orthomagmatic gabbros, seven basal contaminated gabbros, six hornfelsed Silurian sediments, four hornfelsed basalts, seven granular gabbros formed by incorporation of basalt, and one gabbro which has assimilated limestone. The orthomagmatic gabbros and minerals have sequences of trace element contents which can be correlated with the fractional crystallisation history of the magma. In particular, the Cr/Ni ratio is found to be a sensitive parameter of differentiation. Three of the four layers of the complex show fractionation of the elements with V, Sr and Ba increasing, and Cr, Ni and Co decreasing, with progressive differentiation. The remaining layer (no. 2) shows a slightly different pattern resulting from its relative lack of differentiation.
20494284|Quantitative estimates of mollusc populations at sites in south-west Ireland were related to vegetation and chemical composition of soil and litter using principal coordinates analysis and canonical correlation. The differences in snail fauna between sites was best explained by variation in litter composition especially with regard to nitrogen and calcium.
20518969|The Irish fauna of Tabanoid and Asiloid Diptera, mainly medium to large sized sun-loving flies, is discussed and compared with that of Britain. The impoverishment of the British fauna, more marked in relation to that of Europe than in any other group of Diptera, is reflected in the further reduction of variety found in Ireland. Two of the ten families represented in Britain, the Acroceridae and Xylomyiidae, are entirely absent in Ireland and the entire group can only muster fifty-nine species (of at least 153 known in Britain). The author has found thirty-five species in Ireland but only three were additions to the Irish list and few further additions can now be expected. Following introductory accounts of the families and genera, the distribution within Ireland of each species is summarised and discussed in relation to the climatic, habitat and biological factors involved. Irish specimens have been examined of all but two of the species accepted as Irish and all records in the literature, for which supporting specimens are not available, are critically evaluated.
20494854|The Upper Carboniferous and associated Old Red Sandstone of the area to the south, south-east and south-west of Tipperary town have been re-mapped on the six-inch to the mile scale and a new structural interpretation, involving low and high angle thrusting rather than normal faulting, is suggested to account for the tectonic pattern along the east-west line of the Slievenamuck fault. Broad folding, sinistral tear faults and minor thrusts within the Namurian are described, and, in the absence of fossils, apart from poorly preserved plant fragments and possible gastropod tracks, the Namurian of the area is arbitrarily divided into four major lithological groups as follows:-- 4. Moanour Group (c. 260), 3. Shrough Group (c. 660), 2. Farranacliff Group (c. 690), 1. Lackantedane Group (c. 210). Beds of the lithology of the Clare Shales which succeed to the Carboniferous Limestone of the west of Ireland are absent from this area, the beds in contact with the cherty "D" beds of the Carboniferous Limestone being finely micaceous, olive-green mudstones, shaly mudstones and siltstones, probably in part of R age. Correction of the earlier stratigraphical interpretation and geological mapping of the area is also discussed and incorporated in the accompanying map.
20518897|Information on the range of the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus in south-west Ireland was collected by trapping at 129 sites and from previously published results of trapping. It is thought that mountains and large rivers are the chief barriers to spread. With this in mind the data were interpreted and a probable detailed distribution outlined. The species is confined to Co. Limerick and a large part of both Cos. Cork and Kerry but is also found in small areas of southern Clare and Tipperary. It is unlikely that it is present elsewhere in Ireland.
20519018|The distribution of saxicolous lichens on the east and west aspects of three calcareous substrata in Dublin City has been examined. There are significant differences in both number and cover between the three substrata. A positive correlation between pH and number of species on west-facing walls was found. A substrate corrected "Index of Lichen Abundance" is used to zone the city centre area; a strong negative correlation was found between this index and sulphur dioxide levels. No relationship was found between the index and smoke levels. The relationship between humidity and sulphur dioxide toxicity is discussed in the light of the Atlantic climatic regime of the city. The accumulation of sulphur in the thallus of Xanthoria parietina increases with increased aerial pollution.
20518925|Quantitative plankton samples and related physical and chemical data were obtained from five stations in Strangford Lough during 1968 and 1969. Summer temperatures are higher in the upper lough than nearer the open sea. Salinity is nearly uniform and constant. Seasonal fluctuations of nutrients are closely correlated with diatom growth and decline. A circular water flow in the upper lough appears to affect, and was detected in, some plankton distribution patterns. Turbidity in the lough is high, affecting plankton distribution and delaying algal peak production. Higher temperatures stimulate zooplankton production in the upper lough, in turn affecting primary productivity here. Occasional nannoplankton blooms probably deplete nutrients and cause temporary domination of the plankton by Balanus balanoides nauplii.
20494949|With alteration of temperature the oxygen consumption of animal tissues passes through a sequence of increases and decreases. These increases have been shown to result from the emergence in the order of molecular weight, of a change of state of the normally occurring fatty acids. It has been suggested that the change is the formation of liquid crystals by a conjunction of each fatty acid with a micellar solution of an amphiphilic salt in a sufficient concentration. This crystalline formation is assumed to form a frame holding in close association the oxidising enzymes and the substrate in the mitochondria. It is shown that when sodium salicylate or sodium n-butyrate is added in increasing concentrations to a tissue preparation there is a marked change in the pattern of the relation of oxygen consumption to temperature. There is, with increasing concentration, a marked fall in oxygen consumption until, with relatively high concentrations, the normal pattern re-appears. These two amphiphilic salts have as a common property a short organic chain. It is shown that the influence of chain length on the relation concentration to micellar size is such that if to a solution of a long chain amphiphilic salt of sufficient strength to allow the formation of liquid crystals there be added increasing weights of a short chain salt no liquid crystals can be formed until a relatively high concentration is reached. The parallel with the action of sodium salicylate or of sodium n-butyrate on oxygen consumption is such that a long chain amphiphilic salt must be present in the cell to account for the normal pattern of the relation of oxygen consumption to temperature.
20494329|The antitumour activity of new 2-iminochromene derivatives, prepared from the condensation of 2-hydroxybenzaldehydes with various cyanoacetamide derivatives, is described. The condensation of salicylaldehyde with 1-cyanoacetyl-3,5-dimethylpyrazole is complicated by the tendency towards displacement of the 3,5-dimethylpyrazole residue e.g. in ethanol solution by an ethoxy group; appropriate conditions, however, result in the formation of an isomeric mixture of iminochromene products in which the 3,5-dimethylpyrazole group is retained, together with an added ethoxy group.
20494912|The Carnsore Granite is a porphyritic biotite-adamellite in which feldspars show complex exsolution relationships. Irregular aplitic patches formed prior to dilational aplite veins. Abundant xenoliths in all stages of hornfelsing and metasomatism include gneisses, granulites, amphibolites and metadolerites derived from the adjacent Rosslare Series; microgranite types must be related to an earlier intrusive phase. The orientation of phenocrysts and of discoidal xenoliths, the distribution of granite boulders and blocks, the occurrence of aureole rocks on Tuskar Rock and the results of a geophysical gravity survey all suggest that the granite is very much more extensive than the present landward outcrop. An Rb-Sr age determination using separated biotites suggests that the Carnsore Granite is of L. Palaeozoic age. The Great Saltee Island Granite is briefly described and shown to be an earlier intrusion involved in the metamorphism of the Rosslare Series.
20518899|At Shortalstown Co. Wexford, Ireland, a drainage trench in glacial deposits exposed: (1) Disturbed marine interglacial deposits between a lower and an upper till. The pollen-content suggested that the deposits belonged to the last interglacial. Sediments, macroscopic plant fossils, molluscs, foraminifera and ostracods all suggested deposition in shallow water at the mouth of an estuary. (2) Undisturbed freshwater lateglacial (10,200 B.C.) deposits resting in a small depression in the upper till. Sediments, macroscopic plant fossils and bones of Cervus giganteus were in accord with the C-14 date.
20494889|Certain nitrosopyrazoles and their reduction products have been examined. The latter appear to be azoxy compounds of type IV, whose formation was originally suggested by Sachs and Alsleben (1907). Aromatic nitroso compounds are readily reduced by alkoxide ions to azoxy compounds. There are indications that some nitrosopyrazoles are transformed even by alkanols to the azoxy compounds though the latter could not be obtained crystalline. Presumably the corresponding aldehyde is simultaneously produced. These azoxy compounds have all proved to be inactive against M. tuberculosis both in vitro and in vivo. The nitrosopyrazoles possess considerable antituberculosis activity in vitro, and it seems probable that their failure to show antituberculosis activity in the mouse is due to their ready conversion to azoxy compounds.
20494500|With the objective of obtaining a single partially benzylated sucrose derivative in reasonable and reproducible yield, treatment of sucrose in N,N-dimethylformamide with one molar equivalent of benzyl bromide in the presence of silver oxide at room temperature has been studied. A previous report had suggested that under these conditions sucrose underwent selective monobenzylation (40% overall yield) with the order of reactivity of the hydroxyl groups resulting: 2-OH&gt;3-OH&gt;1-OH&gt;3-OH (ratio 86:10:3:1). Our studies have shown that monobenzylation was achieved in 34% yield with reaction at positions 6-OH&gt;2-OH&gt;1-OH&gt;(?)-OH (ratio 335:305:19:17). The product analysis was carried out by isolation of the mono-O-benzylsucrose fraction, hydrolysis, and t.l.c. and quantitative g.l.c. on the resulting mono-O-benzylmonosaccharides. Previously unreported 1-O-benzyl-d-fructose has been synthesised and characterised.
20518867|No report was drawn up concerning the "Flying Falcon" expedition in 1888. This has led to confusion concerning the numbering and position of nine stations dredged during the cruise. An attempt is made here to retrace the course of the voyage aided by references from published papers and an unpublished manuscript in the National Museum of Ireland.
20494457|The benthic macrofauna of Kinsale Harbour on the south coast of Ireland was qualitatively investigated at 68 sites in 1978. Fifty soft bottom sites were quantitatively sampled in 1979 and 1981. Over 500 species recorded for the area are listed systematically. Stations are grouped on their faunal composition using clustering techniques. The species composition of four identified groups is characterised using the pseudo-F-test. Sediments are categorised using a principal component analysis of the granulometric data and the contribution of sediments to the separation of the faunal assemblages is assessed by multiple discriminant analysis. The soft bottom area is characterised by poorly sorted fine and/or silty sands supporting a fauna of high diversity. The faunal assemblages are related to the Syndosmya (= Abra) alba, Venus striatula and Amphiura filiformis boreal communities that characterise the euhaline zone of many estuarine situations. While there is evidence of assemblage intergradation and mixing, cross-confirmation between the multivariate techniques used affirms the categorisation of faunal and bottom types and supports the strong positive correlations between them.
20518876|A series of total field magnetic surveys covering an area of over 1,000 sq. naut. miles was made in the Malin Sea Area between Donegal and Scotland. Interpretation of the results provides a basis for the deduction of the main geological features of the region and delineates a number of small faults in directions contrasting with the dominant Caledonian trend. Although major faults such as the Great Glen and Leannan faults have little direct magnetic effect in the survey area, a limited series of alternatives for their directions can be assumed. In the case of the Leannan fault, these provide contributory evidence for its suggested movement. In the case of the Great Glen, they indicate a course well north of the Irish coast.
20518941|One hundred and nineteen species of bivalve have been recorded for the shallow (&lt; 45m) waters of Galway Bay and Kilkerrin Bay. These are listed, together with information on habitat preference, depth-ranging within deposit substrates, maximum densities and distributional records for adjacent areas.
20494393|Data from tide gauges at Dublin, Belfast and Malin Head show various trends in annual mean sea- or tide-level over the last sixty-five years. The record from Belfast shows an overall falling trend but application of a nineteen-year filter indicates that most of this fall has occurred since the mid-1950s, possibly as a result of land reclamation in the estuary adjacent to the tide gauge. The Dublin record shows a secular rising trend in mean tide-level, but the data may be split into a rising trend before 1961, and a falling trend thereafter. The Malin Head record is barely adequate for our purposes, but it does show a coherent falling sea-level, possibly indicating the last vestiges of isostatic uplift in Ireland. Coastal geomorphological evidence is hard to reconcile with these relatively slight variations in sea-level, but anomalous stretches of non-eroding and even prograding coast in counties Londonderry and Donegal suggest continuing isostatic uplift on the extreme northern coast.
20518860|Twenty-four species of cirripede from Irish waters are listed, and references given. Irish cirripede specimens in the collections of the National Museum of Ireland are listed and particulars of localities and published data are given where available. Specimens from the Royal Irish Academy Expedition of 1886, the Royal Dublin Society Expeditions of 1890-91 and from the south and south west coasts have been identified and are now published for the first time. A brief indication is given of how representative the collection and previously published records are in relation to the British fauna.
20494954|Derryclare Wood is situated in the Twelve Bens mountain range of Western Ireland. The general floristic and climatic features of the woodland resemble those of the Killarney oakwoods; this resemblance is also apparent in the lichen-flora of both areas. A number of lichen species previously known in Ireland only from the south-west have now been recorded in Derryclare Wood. There are thirty-two additions to the vice-county flora of West Galway (v.-c. H 16), of which three taxa are new to the Irish lichen-flora. Ninety-eight species and seven minor taxa, belonging to forty genera, are recorded from Derryclare Wood. Seven species of fungi parasitic on lichens were found to occur. Six of these have not been previously recorded from Ireland, while one is new to the British Isles and another to the Northern Hemisphere.
20518901|Configurations are assigned to a number of -arylthiocinnamic acids and esters on the basis of their n.m.r. and i.r. spectra. The preparation of 2, 4-diphenyl-1,5-benzothiazepine is reported.
20494475|The modern version of Trouton's Rule states that the standard molar entropies of vaporisation of non-polar quasi-spherical molecular liquids at their boiling points are essentially constant:
20494535|Closo 12-X-1-SeBH{X = Cl, Br, I} were prepared by the reaction of 1-SeBH and X and were characterised by i.r. and B n.m.r. The structure of the iodo-derivative was established by X-ray crystallographic methods. The space group was P2/n with four molecules in a unit cell of dimensions a = 11.636(3), b = 13.358(3), c = 7.346(3). The structure solution was refined by full-matrix least-squares calculations to R = 0.039 for 1231 reflections with I9(I). The Se-B distances were in the range 2.122-2.144, the B-I bond was 2.167(4) and B-B distances in the range 1.741-1.934. Photoelectron spectra of 1-SeBH, 12-Br-1-SeBH and 1-TeBH were measured and are discussed by comparison with corresponding measurements and calculations on thiaboranes, as are the nido systems 7-SeBH and SeBH.
20518930|Palinurus mauritanicus has only once been recorded from Irish waters, as P. thomsoni (Selbie 1914). This specimen, a male, was captured at a depth of about 400 metres lat. 5120N, long. 1130W. The three specimens described in this paper were captured in shallow coastal waters at depths of 25-30 metres. These records are of interest firstly as being the most northerly known distribution of P. mauritanicus and secondly as they occurred in such shallow waters./// On retient une seule mention de Palinurus mauritanicus dans les eaux irlandaises,  savoir Palinurus thomsoni. Ce specimen a t pch  une profondeur d'environ 400 mtres, lat. 5120N, long. 1130W. Les trois specimens dcrits dans ce rapport ont t pchs dans les eaux peu profondes (25 -- 30 mtres) prs de la cte. Ces mentions sont intressantes pour les raisons suivantes: (1) Aucune mention de P. mauritanicus  une si haute latitude n'a jusqu' ici t retenue, autant qu'on puisse savoir. (2) A cause des profondeurs d'eau si peu importantes.
20494485|The naturally occurring fragmentation of lichen thalli, senescence, and the loss of thalline fragments and whole thalli were observed in the Burren region of County Clare, Ireland. Over a period of 26 months, saxicolous and epiphytic individuals underwent often dramatic changes in size and appearance. The importance of these phenomena for the structure and development of lichen-dominated communities is discussed.
20494280|Fragmented specimens of Eunice harassii Audouin and Milne-Edwards, found in Dublin Bay, were unusually large and had a higher maximum number of branchial filaments than recorded for this or other British species of the genus Eunice. Measurements of these and museum specimens show a linear relationship between filament number and setiger width. The Irish specimens come from an area enriched by sewage sludge. This is a new species record for Irish waters.
20494388|Vertical or near vertical cracks containing light-coloured infilled material are common in till along the south coast from Carnsore Point to Hook Head, Co. Wexford. Detailed examination showed that the material within the cracks differed significantly in particle size and free iron content from the surrounding till.
20518955|A detailed petrographic and chemical study of the dolerites, granitic sheets and veins and their mutual contacts has been made on rocks from Barnavave and Cooley Castle quarries in the western part of the Tertiary Carlingford Complex. Comparison with differentiation series from comparable igneous complexes indicates that the dolerites and granites are not genetically related and the intermediate rocks present result from metasomatic or assimilation processes. Four types of dolerite/granite contacts are recognised, two have darkened dolerite margins, one exhibits an indistinct patchy, darkened zone and the fourth does not develop a darkened zone and forms a gradational contact with the granite. The dolerite was intruded first, and the granitic magma filled contraction fractures in it. Heat and volatiles associated with the granite were sufficient to feldspathise and amphibolitise the dolerite and cause hornfelsic recrystallisation along the contact zones.
20494417|This paper on the Ascomycotina (Ascomycetes) is the fourth of the series contributing to an annotated account of fungi recorded in Ireland between 1726 and 1975. When this series of papers has been completed it will comprise the first comprehensive catalogue of Irish fungi since that of Adams and Pethybridge.
20518938|Cyclops agilis adult females reared at 10, 15, 20 and 25 show a progressive reduction in cephalothorax length with increasing rearing temperature. No significant differences in cephalothorax length were found between first and second generations, reared at the same temperature. Twenty-six characters were measured in twenty individuals, at each temperature for 1st and 2nd generations. A canonical variate analysis shows that these follow the same trend as cephalothorax length, Thus, small adults reared at a high temperature are miniaturised versions of the larger low temperature reared individuals. A series of experiments in which eggs laid at one and reared at another temperature show that the rearing temperature determines adult size and the temperature at which the eggs are laid has no significant influence. These experiments show also that temperature has no selective effect on the eggs and this, coupled with the very low mortality at 10, 15 and 20, show that the effect of rearing temperature on adult size is a physiological one and is not due to selection.
20518881|Previous work on the zonation of lichens on the sea-shore is summarised and compared with the zonations described by the use of quantitative methods for three shores on the west and north shores of Inishowen. A greater variation in the number of species that may become dominant in the different zones was found than had previously been suspected. The only lichen species to attain dominance in the eulittoral is Lichina pygmea. In the littoral fringe a zone of Verrucaria microsopra is described for the first time occurring below the characteristic band of V. maura in three of the transects. Lichina confinis also belongs to the littoral fringe but like L. pygmea it is almost totally confined to south-facing shores. Lecanora helicopis is the most constant species of the lower supralittoral and is frequently accompanied by L. actophila particularly on exposed shores. Caloplaca marina and Catillaria chalybea may also occur as dominants at this level. Higher in the supralittoral the following species were recorded as dominant or co-dominant in one or more transects: Lecanora atra, Ramalina siliquosa, Anaptychia fusca, Xanthoria parietina and Rhizocarpon obscuratum. The supralittoral terminates where species such as Lecidea subicongrua and L. cyathoides, not primarily restricted to the shore in their distribution, become dominant. Some tentative explanations for the variation of dominants in the supralittoral are advanced.
20494318|3-Carbamoyl-2-iminochromene derivatives condense with ethyl cyanoacetate, forming derivatives of 6-cyano-5-hydroxy-2-imino-3-oxo-3H, 4H-benzopyrano [3, 4-c] pyridine. A competing reaction, involving initial attack at the 2-imino position, yields derivatives of 3-(1-amino-2-cyano-2-ethoxycarbonyl)vinyl coumarin.
20494882|When the extracellular glucose concentration of normal rat kidney slices is between 70 mg. and 110 mg./100 ml. the respiratory quotient covers the full catabolic range within the normally prevailing body temperatures. Above or below these glucose concentrations fat and carbohydrate are burnt only in a fixed proportion. The bearing of this result on the maintenance of a constant blood sugar concentration is discussed. In alloxan diabetic rats a similar result is obtained but the glucose concentration at which free combustion of carbohydrate (or fat) can occur is below the normal blood sugar concentration.
20494396|Thinozercon michaeli Halbert is redescribed with emphasis on its main distinctive morphological features. The genus Thinozercon is shown to be a member of the suborder Uropodina, and to be closely related to the genus Protodinychus Evans which is considered the least specialized member of the Uropodina. These two genera are included in the superfamily Thinozerconoidea. T. michaeli, on the basis of some unique characteristics, is placed in the family Thinozerconidae Halbert, which is redefined. At present T. michaeli is only known from Ireland and is probably an endemic species adapted to a sandy intertidal habitat, which is under little pressure from competition. /// Thinozercon michaeli Halbert est redcrit en insistant sur ses caractristiques morphologiques principales. On montre que le genre Thinozercon appartient au sous-ordre des Uropodina et qu'il est voisin du genre Protodinychus Evans, qui peut tre considr comme l'Uropodide connu le moins spcialis. Ces deux genres sont inclus dans la superfamille des Thinozerconoidea. Sur la base de certains de ses caractres morphologiques exclusifs, T. michaeli justifie le maintien de la famille des Thinozerconidae Halbert, dont les caractristiques sont redfinies. Actuellement, T. michaeli est seulement connu de l'Irlande, c'est donc probablement une espce endmique, qui se caractrise par son adaptation  la zone intertidale sableuse, habitat  faible pression de comptition.
20494533|The equilibria, kinetics and mechanisms of the complex formation reactions of nickel(II) and copper(II) with 1-phenyl-1,3-butanedione (Hpbd) have been investigated in methanol: water (70: 30 v/v) solution at 25C and an ionic strength of 0.5mol dm NaClO. A detailed mechanism is proposed to account for the kinetic data. In terms of the proposed mechanism Ni and Cu react with the enol tautomer of Hpbd with rate constants of 3.21 and 5.03  10dm mol s respectively, while they react with the enolate ion with rate constants of 2.7  10 and 3.2  10dm mol s respectively.
20518946|Evidence is presented which demonstrates that a Tertiary dyke of at least 70km in length is present in the extreme south-west of Ireland, a region generally regarded as being free from the effects of volcanicity of this age.
20494487|The biology of the shore clingfish or Cornish sucker Lepadogaster lepadogaster (Bonnaterre, 1788) was investigated between July 1985 and September 1987. A total of 129 fish were captured at Inishbofin, Co. Galway, off north-west Connemara, on the west coast of Ireland. The fish were located on sheltered rocky shores at approximately mid-tide level amongst small, flat, seaweed-covered rocks. The population was composed of four year classes. The life-span of the shore clingfish was short and no animal entered its fifth year of life. Individual growth was rapid, particularly in the first two years. There was no deviation from the expected 1: 1 sex ratio. Mature fish were recorded in their second year of life (1+), when they were at least 39mm in total length (T.L.). Fish &lt;38mm (T.L.) were immature. The shore clingfish is a carnivore, the diet consisting mainly of amphipods, gastropods, decapods and copepods.
20494526|Activation of [Fe(CO)] with trimethylamine N-oxide in the presence of acetonitrile affords the labile species [Fe(CO) (MeCN)] The latter reacts with bis[bis(trimethylsilyl)]methyl]tin at low temperature to afford the tetranuclear cluster [FeSn-(CO)(SnR)] {R=CH(SiMe)}. This molecule has a structure, determined by a single-crystal analysis, unique in tetranuclear Fe/Sn clusters, with Fe-Fe interactions. Without prior activation, the parent carbonyl reacts, but at higher temperatures, to give a trinuclear cluster, previously formulated as [Fe(CO)(-SnR)].
20518888|A method is described for the determination of chlorate ion when present in a large excess of bromide or iodide ions. The halide ions are precipitated with silver acetate, and the chlorate ion is detected spectrophotometrically using Eger's method (1955).
20494531|A vibrational analysis has been carried out on both syn- and anti-conformations of N-sulphinylimide, H-N=S=O. A simple on-diagonal force field is used, the validity of which was established by comparison with a normal coordinate analysis for DNSO. The potential energy distributions show that the N=S and S=O stretching modes are coupled. The pseudo-asymmetric N=S=O stretching mode of predominantly N=S character occurs at higher wavenumber than the pseudo-symmetric N=S=O mode of predominantly S=O character. The N=S and S=O bond orders are evaluated.
20494274|Comparison is made between the uptake of C and oxygen evolution as methods for measuring photosynthetic rates in Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland, over a seasonal period (1971-2). Rates were similar for both methods at different light intensities, except on two occasions (8.ii.72, 20.iv.72) when C rates were depressed to a greater extent than oxygen rates at high light intensities. This was at a time of possible phosphate limitation. The determination of a carbon dioxide uptake/oxygen evolution ratio is often made unreliable, due to the difficulty in correctly assessing the importance of possible sources of error which currently basets the application of the C technique, but a preliminary figure of unity for most times of the year is suggested. The highest value was 1.7 on 29.vii.71.
20494939|Part I. Food. The food of the fox Vulpes vulpes was studied by exhaustive analysis of the stomach contents of 549 adults and 291 cubs and by examination of food remains outside twenty-three earths. Possible sources of error are indicated. Seasonal variation in the food is outlined. The differences between the diet of cubs and adults are discussed and the data compared with those derived from similar studies in Great Britain. Only 10% of guts were empty in one winter investigated, suggesting that there was no shortage of food. The diet is clearly one of a, primarily carnivorous, gastronomic opportunist. Part II. Reproduction. The reproduction of the fox was investigated over a period of two years by exhaustive examination of some 600 carcasses. The seasonal variation in the weights of the gonads and the onset of germ cell production are recorded in detail. The breeding season was determined from the enlargement of the glans penis in males, from ovulation and presence of sperm in the reproductive tracts of females and, indirectly, by assessing the age of embryos. The whelping season was also determined. Changes in the genitalia of the vixens during reproduction are described. Full data were obtained on numbers and distribution between uteri of embryos, placental scars and corpora lutea. The sex ratio is recorded. Foxes bred between 4 January and 15 February but the majority between 7 January and 8 February. A mean of 4.45 embryos were found in vixens forty days or more pregnant but 10% of females were barren. This is in contrast with results from Great Britain where the breeding season is apparently later, litter size smaller and fewer vixens produce young. Part III. Form, growth and development. This study was based on the examination of the bodies of 488 adult foxes and 254 cubs. Data were accumulated from adults on the lengths of: head and body, tail, hindfoot and ear, on the seasonal variation in weight and on the appearance and moult of the pelage. Similar observations were made on cubs and the developmental changes noted. The results are discussed and the periods of time taken for the various stages of growth deduced.
20518919|The standing stock of macrofauna was investigated on seven sandy beaches. Approximately fifty species comprising over 13,000 individuals were identified and counted. Grain size, water and organic contents of the sands were analysed and the depth of the "black layer" taken as a measure of the degree of oxygenation. Comparisons of the beaches showed that wave action plays a major role in defining the composition of the beach fauna. Crustaceans dominated the exposed beaches, the proportions of polychaetes and molluscs increasing with moderating exposure. Sheltered beaches had the greatest biomass and species diversity. Molluscs, although numerically few, made up the bulk of the biomass. Crustaceans, on the other hand, contributed little to the biomass whilst polychaetes were intermediate both in terms of weight and density. The value of biological and physical indicators of exposure is discussed. Results are briefly compared with those found by previous investigators for other sandy beaches.
20494387|The metasediments of the Lissoughter area form part of the Lower and Middle Dalradian succession of Connemara, and include rocks from the lowest stratigraphical horizons exposed in the region. Despite considerable structural attenuation a stratigraphical succession may be recognised and a formal stratigraphical sequence for the lower half of the Connemara Dalradian is outlined here. The succession is similar to that of M. E. Badley (1976, "J. Geol. Soc. London" 132, 509-20) but includes the further division of the Boulder Bed and Streamstown Formations into two members each. The rocks were metamorphosed to sillimanite grade, and the pelitic and semi-pelitic units contain abundant locally derived partial melt granites. Three major deformation episodes, D to D, each of which may be correlated regionally, are recognised in the Lissoughter area. The macroscopic F folds which pass through the Lissoughter area repeatedly fold the D Lissoughter Antiform, a major nappe structure which closes and youngs everywhere towards the south and which may be genetically related to the Tay Nappe. These F folds are part of large-scale nappe structures, the upper parts of which outcrop in the Knockpashee-more Synformal Complex of north Connemara. The Lissoughter area lies on the north edge of the 'steep belt' of central Connemara. The spatial position of this belt of vertically dipping rocks which form the northern part of the F nappe root zone is probably the result of tightening and overfolding during the D episode. The F root zone, which includes the southern extension of the Renvyle-Boffin slide, is probably centred along an axis that passes through the injected rocks of the Cashel area which will have been plastic prior to deformation.
20494337|Sediments of pelitic and siliceous, dolomitic limestone compositions have been metasomatically altered, in two stages, in the exogenous contact-zone of the Blind Rock dolerite dyke, Co. Donegal. Application of published experimental data shows that the load pressure in the contact-zone was around 500 bars. The first stage of metamorphism took place at a temperature of between 750 and 820C in the presence of a binary HO-CO fluid phase in which the mole fraction of CO was restricted between 0.1 and 0.4, and produced assemblages containing biotite, diopside, grossular, andradite, hydrogrossular, orthoclase, plagioclase, wollastonite, sphene, pyrrhotite and magnetite. The second stage of metamorphism took place at around 220C in the presence of CO-free fluid phase of alkaline nature and minerals such as analcite, apophyllite, clinoptilolite, hydromica, serpentine and thomsonite were developed in the rocks of the first stage.
20494935|Two Pre-Cambrian units outcrop in Co. Wexford south-east of the Carboniferous outcrop. One--the Rosslare Complex--is interpreted as the basement of the second--the Ballycogly Group (Monian). Pre-Monian metamorphism of the Complex formed amphibolite facies assemblages in semi-pelitic and hornblendic metasediments, granitic gneisses and orthoamphibolites; feldspar augen, pegmatites and late muscovite porphyroblasts also developed. Later, dyke-swarms were intruded, followed by the deposition of the Ballycogly Group. All these were involved in low-grade metamorphism and polyphase folding associated with the Monian orogeny which caused the production of belts of retrogressive mylonites, blastomylonites and mylonite-gneisses in the basement. In the north, cataclasis is related to late thrusting. The area is traversed by N-S tear-faults and major Caledonoid faults, and was overlain by unmetamorphosed Ordovician sediments.
20494379|Previous published, unpublished and new records of Stenogramme interrupta have been examined and the existing distribution of the species on the Irish coast is presented in detail. The distribution of the species in Britain and elsewhere in Europe is summarised. Among the very early records examined was one undescribed specimen collected in Cork harbour as early as 1836. In situ observations of the ecology with relation to exposure, substrate, current and depth-range are reported. Illustrated variations of the morphology are included.
20519057|The algal flora of ten peat sites at Maam, Co. Galway was studied. These had been treated with various combinations of calcium carbonate, calcium sulphate, amonium sulphate, phosphates, copper sulphate and potassium chloride fertilisers to assess the effects of these fertilisers in changing the composition of peat flora and in increasing algal numbers in the soil. Almost all of the treatments resulted in increases in algal numbers in the peat. However, no significant changes in the composition of the algal population were noted. The recolonisation of inverted peat plots by algae was studied and it was found that there was a trend towards complete reversion to the original flora and there was no evidence of specific pioneer algae. The results indicate that whilst fertilisers may change for a time the abundance of certain algal forms, the overall effect on the composition of the algal population is not great and is relatively short-lived.
20494355|Since the Cu chelates of 1,2-bisthiosemicarbazones (relatively well-known) are involved in their anti-tumour activity, some transition metal complexes of 1,4-, 1,5- and 1,6-bisthiosemicarbazones were prepared for biological study. The scope of complex formation is limited. Cu readily gave chelates of 1,5-bisthiosemicarbazones in neutral solution, but not of 1,4- or 1,6-. Ni, Zn and Cd were much less selective but required more vigorous, alkaline conditions. Mn and Fe gave no positive results and Co only with the 1, 5-bisthiosemicarbazone having an all-carbon chain. These complexes are of 2:1 type (N-N-C-S/metal ratio) and the structures are probably tricyclic, analogous to those established for 1,2- and 1,4-derivatives; the thiosemicarbazone functions do not react in isolation to form 1:1 complexes. The u.v. spectra are of two types, Co, Ni and Cu producing a single intense peak in the 250-300nm region and Zn and Cd two. All chelates have a sharp i.r. band about 1600cm.
20518980|Botanical studies in Ireland in the seventeenth century were almost exclusively floristic. The first published records of Irish plants appeared in 1650, but no further progress was made in the study of the flora until the last decade of the century; in 1696, in the second edition of his Synopsis, John Ray incorporated such information relating to the flora of Ireland as had been already published, or communicated to him. An account of plants observed in the north-west of the country in 1700 is provided from a MS source.
20494924|The energy and nitrogen balance of the albino mouse was estimated during the maximal growth period. Energy budgets were constructed for the periods 25-35, 35-45 and 45-55 days of age, with reference to the energy relations of three skeletal muscles (biceps brachii, tibialis anterior and a caudal extensor). The variation in energy and nitrogen extraction efficiencies, together with the energy cost of protein deposition, were calculated for these growth periods. The results are compared with those from animals of agricultural importance.
20494477|The committee for Quaternary Research in Ireland was appointed by the Royal Irish Academy in 1933 with Robert Lloyd Praeger as chairman and Anthony Farrington as secretary. The committee's invitation to Knud Jessen of Copenhagen to carry out investigations into the history of Irish vegetation led to the identification of late-glacial deposits in Ireland for the first time. Jessen also discovered interglacial deposits and investigated the history of Irish forests during the Holocene. His meticulous laboratory and field studies and the work of his pupil G. F. Mitchell set standards and founded traditions in Quaternary research in Ireland which have continued to bear fruit to this day.
20494372|From measurements on eighty-three bodies and 128 skulls it is evident that there is a cline in the size of the Irish stoat Mustela erminea hibernica, animals in the south being rather larger than those in the north.
20519055|Stream sediment samples taken at a sampling density of one sample per square mile in a 900 sq mile (2,300 sq km) area of central Ireland were analysed for fifteen elements. Results for potassium, chromium, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, molybdenum and lead are presented in single element geochemical maps. Analytical data for all elements studied are presented in tabular form accompanied by a sample site map. Stream sediment levels and soil levels were correlated in selected areas. Element distribution patterns obtained were also related to local geology and glaciation. Areas with differing levels of potassium were clearly delineated and were related to the underlying rock formations and glaciation. Much of the area had potentially toxic levels of molybdenum. A number of instances of coincident high levels of metals occurred suggesting possible mineralisation, and an area some five miles (8 km) south-west of Trim appeared especially interesting. Two extensive areas with high levels of nickel and chromium were delineated. The correlation between stream sediment and soil levels was unsatisfactory for some elements in certain limestone areas where stream sediments contained high carbonate content relative to soils. Rock analyses showed that high potassium, titanium, chromium, manganese and gallium occurred in Silurian shales. Some black shale strata occurring in the Namurian and some limestone formations had high levels of titanium, chromium, nickel, copper and molybdenum. The Lower Avonian shales and sandstones had high potassium titanium and manganese levels. Limestones generally had low levels of the elements studied.
20494268|McLachlan's procedure for calculating spin densities in hydrocarbon radicals is examined and applied to various types of radicals. The results are compared with those calculated by other methods involving different levels of approximation. The agreement with Pople and Nesbet calculations for some radicals but not for others, is duscussed.
20519027|An account is given of the history and development of mycology and plant pathology in Ireland since the first traceable mention of Irish fungi in the scientific sense by Caleb Threlkeld in 1726. It shows how before 1900 most of the work done was carried out by enthusiastic amateurs, many of whom were medical men, priests or ministers, who added considerably to the known fungus flora. Growing enlightenment followed upon the discovery by Anton de Bary towards the close of the nineteenth century that fungi could be active parasites and that potato blight was caused by a microscopic parasitic fungus. The study of mycology and plant pathology became an important part of the work of the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction upon its inception in 1900 and it can be said that 1900-1920 marked a period of research and development in experimental plant pathology in Ireland without equal in the British Isles and probably much further afield. After the political division of the country in 1920 the work from then onwards was vigorously pursued in both Southern and Northern Ireland. Plant virology occupied the main attention in Southern Ireland where the work done was soon to lay claim to international distinction, especially with reference to virus diseases of the potato and the role played by them in preventing the production of healthy seed. In Northern Ireland specialist attention was given more to the study and successful control of fungal crop diseases, many of which were limiting the production of full crops of high quality produce. Towards the present day the efforts in both north and south have become better balanced, more equal attention being given to both mycology and virology owing largely to the increased number of workers and better facilities provided. Apart from the work being undertaken by Departments of Agriculture more is now being done in the universities for the purpose of adding to our fundamental knowledge of these so often inconspicuous microscopic organisms which play an ever increasing part in our daily life whether by attacking crops, livestock or ourselves with much resultant discomfiture or by behaving as such beneficiaries in giving us yeasts and antibiotics. The role of the British Mycological Society in ministering uncomplainingly to the needs of systematic mycology in Ireland must not be overlooked. Ever since 1898 when the second annual meeting of the Society was held in Dublin its effect can be seen in its assisting quietly whenever requested or needed. The work includes a bibliography of some 1350 titles which it is believed, with as few exceptions as possible, includes reference to all publications of any importance dealing with the study of mycology and plant pathology in Ireland since 1726.
20519010|Derivatives of pyridazine and benzodiazines have been found to possess growth-inhibitory properties against HeLa cells in vitro and experimental tumours in mice. The anticancer activity of an azoxypyrazole derivative is also described.
20518854|Three granite plutons have been mapped, and subdivided into a number of facies. Two plutons, Inish and Omey, are predominantly biotite hornblende adamellites, while the Letterfrack body is a biotite granodiorite. Twentyfive granite samples have been chemically analysed for thirty elements, and eighteen K feldspars for twentytwo elements. The major and minor element geochemistry supports the field data. Of particular interest is the rubidium content, which varies from normal to enriched, and a comparison with the granites of Carna and Screeb indicates a steady increase westwards, supporting a common and magmatic origin. The granite potash feldspars are deficient in soda, which may be due to a metasomatic paragenesis. Microcline is characteristic of the adamellites and orthoclase of the granodiorites. The origin of the rather prominent "igneous" xenoliths and biotite screens is explained. The Omey pluton appears to have crystallised from the edge inwards with the centrally placed Island granite representing a late stage acid residuum. Using the water vapour pressure diagram after Bowen and Tuttle (1958), the relative depths of emplacement of the various granites have been designated. The field characters of the granites together with their levels have been applied to the zones of Buddington (1959), showing that the Letterfrack granodiorite belongs to the epizone, whereas the adamellites typify the mesozone. A brief account is given of the hornfelsing.
20494311|Novel heterogeneous binuclear dithiocarbamate complexes of the type
20518963|The growth of Bacillus polymyxa and the effects of nitrogen and other factors on the production of extracellular amylase and protease was investigated. Growth and enzyme production in the extract alone was poor. Various nitrogen and inorganic salts were added to the peat extract and their effects on enzyme production determined. Peptone was shown to be the most suitable nitrogenous material for enzyme production. When added to a peat extract-starch-calcium chloride medium, skimmed milk powder (1% W/V) gave 10% more protease but only about 20% of the cell yield compared with that obtained with peptone. Amylase production dropped by 64%. The nature of the peptone used had a significant effect on both amylase and protease yields. B. polymyxa showed a broad initial pH range of 59 to 70 for protease production. Enzyme production paralleled growth of the bacterium and reached a maximum towards the end of the exponential phase of growth. Of the inorganic ions tested, calcium alone gave increased yields of amylase and protease when added to a peat extract-starch-peptone medium. Maximum amylase production was obtained with an initial pH of 68. This dropped to 59 during the early part of the fermentation and then rose subsequently to 69 to 70. Maximum enzyme activity was detected in the medium only in the latter stages of the growth cycle when the pH had risen towards neutrality. Increase in yields as a result of the addition of peat extract to a starch-peptone-calcium chloride medium was shown to be 73% in relation to biomass, 350% in relation to the starch degrading enzyme and 30% with respect to protease.
20494335|The population size of various stages of a complex parasitic life cycle are formulated in a matrix model. A simple Leslie matrix is not sufficient to describe transitions and a transition matrix consisting of interacting Leslie matrices is therefore introduced. The model is applied to the life-cycle of the parasite Fasciola hepatica responsible for liver fluke disease in sheep and cattle. The formulation takes into consideration the important biological stages of parasitic development. Special consideration is also given to climatic features, typical of those areas where the disease is prevalent in Britain and Ireland, by making the transition matrix time dependent. The properties of the matrices used in the model are investigated mathematically and the model's value is demonstrated by a simulation of the life expectancy of a theoretical sheep population under various available control strategies such as flukicides and molluscicides. The model is potentially useful for the control of many other parasitic diseases of people and animals.
20494859|A STUDY was made of the food consumed by over 1,000 trout (Salmo trutta, L.) and perch (Perca fluviatilis, L.) caught by netting in the Poulaphouca Reservoir, Co. Wicklow, Ireland. Trout took a far wider variety of food types than the perch. Three of the four main diet items of the perch were also eaten by trout in considerable quantity. In all three cases the perch tended to eat much more of these than the trout. An experiment with a captive perch supported the idea that this species actively discriminates against certain food types such as gastropod molluscs. It was concluded that the perch prevented the trout from obtaining a full supply of necessary foodstuffs.
20494373|John Desmond Bernal was born in 1901 in Nenagh, Co. Tipperary where his father owned a pleasant house and farm. He grew up passionately interested both in science of all kinds, which he studied in Cambridge, and also, widely, in other fields of learning and the arts, in socialism and in problems of peace and war. The influences of his early life and ideas can be traced in his life's work in all these fields and particularly in his studies of structure in biology, chemistry and physics, which have led to many of the major advances of our times, in theory and for practically useful ends.
20494344|The topographical features of the shores in the immediate vicinity of the recently established field laboratory at Finavarra, County Clare, are briefly described. Annotated lists of benthic species of Rhodophyta, Phaeophyta and Chlorophyta are given.
20494868|Phycoerythrins and phycocyanins have been isolated and characterised from eight species of cryptomonads (Division Cryptophyta, Class Cryptophyceae, Order Cryptomonadales). Their absorption spectral characteristics are compared with those of previously described cryptomonad biliproteins. Fluorescence spectra of cryptomonad biliproteins are recorded for the first time. Denaturation and hydrolysis studies of phycocyanins from cryptomonads indicate that they contain two dissimilar coloured prosthetic groups, or chromophores, one of which has been identified with the pigment of C-phycocyanin.
20519044|The Irish fauna of the dipterous families Fanniidae and Muscidae is listed for the first time in a composite form. No species is accepted as Irish unless we have seen authentic Irish specimens. Seventy-one species are published as Irish for the first time bringing the total of certainly Irish species to 182. Following introductory remarks on the genera, the distribution of each species in Ireland is summarised and there is some discussion of how this is correlated with climatic, habitat and biological factors. In those genera where sufficient information is available the British and Irish faunas are compared.
20518983|A sequence of 2,322m (7,620ft) of strata belonging to the Cork Beds (Upper Devonian-Lower Carboniferous) conformably succeeds the Old Red Sandstone along the south coast of Dummanus Bay. The succession comprises four formations. The lowest is the Toe Head Formation (835m), a cyclic sand-dominated sequence probably deposited under coastal plain conditions, which is overlain by the Old Head Sandstone Formation (361m) indicative of nearshore and shoreline deposition. The overlying Kinsale Formation (1,065m) begins with a marine incursion, but records a general upward progression from nearshore to offshore tidal-influenced environments. Only the lowest part of the Reenydonagan Formation (61m seen) is exposed in the core of the Dunmanus Syncline, but these beds show an upward change from neritic carbonate deposition to starved basin conditions. New palynological data indicate an Upper Famennian to Tournaisian age for the Cork Beds in this sequence. The position of the Dunmanus succession within the regional stratigraphic and palaeogeographic framework is briefly discussed.
20494480|In assessing the diet of owls in the British Isles by pellet analysis, the differences in the average sizes of prey species are normally offset by correction factors, which are essentially conjectural. Correction factors for pellets of the barn owl Tyto alba in Ireland are investigated here on an empirical basis. The available methods of assessing the sizes of birds and brown rats Rattus norvegicus are reconsidered. Similar methods are developed for the remaining mammalian prey and for the frog Rana temporaria. Regression equations from reference material were fitted to plots of dentary length (or length of pelvic girdle for frog)  body weight to obtain mean body weights from bones recovered from castings. After considering seasonal and local variation, and attaching confidence limits to the results, possible sources of error and the limitations of the system are discussed. A new series of correction factors is thus provided.
20494517|The solubility product of silver chloride has been measured in 5% and 20% (w/w) propan-1-ol--water mixtures and the free energies of transfer of silver chloride from water to the mixed solvents were calculated from these values. Combination of these data with free energies of transfer of LiCl, NaCl, CsCl and HCl allowed analysis of the extent of steric hindrance to the cation solvation in the propan-1-ol solvent systems. It is found that steric hindrance in the cation-solvent complexes formed with propan-1-ol is significant for Li, Na and Cs. This is similar to the result obtained previously for the complexes formed with t-butanol. It is proposed that the extent of steric hindrance to the formation of the cation-solvent complexes in these media results from the constraints imposed on the orientation and geometry of the complexed propan-1-ol molecules.
20494476|Spectral reflectance values for bare soils obtained during the SPOT simulation campaign over counties Antrim and Armagh in May 1984 are analysed. These reflectance values were recorded in widely scattered fields. Groups derived from cluster analysis had spatial patterns which could be associated with solid geology, types of glacial till and fluvio-glacial gravels. It is suggested that in Northern Ireland satellite remote sensing data may be an aid in reconnaissance soil surveys and additionally in mapping glacial and fluvio-glacial deposits.
20518953|A measured sequence of 1,388 metres of Devonian--early Carboniferous strata occurs in the Whitegate area of south Co. Cork. Three major lithostratigraphical units are recognised. These are, in ascending order, the Glengarriff Harbour Group (Upper Devonian-Lower Carboniferous), the Ringabella Group (Lower Carboniferous) and an informal unit termed "Knoll-Form Bank and Off-Bank Limestones". The lowermost formation of the Glengarriff Harbour Group in this area, the silt-dominant West Cork Sandstone Formation of non-marine facies, is subdivided into two members on the relative development of sandstones. The overlying Coomhola Formation consists of a sequence of grey and light green sandstones, siltstones and mudstones, its base being marked by the first incursion of heterolithic bedding. The lowest formation of the succeeding Ringabella Group is the Garryvoe Conglomerate Formation, a unit containing pebbly sandstones. This formation is overlain by the Kinsale Formation, a sequence of dark grey mudstones. The carbonate unit consists of crinoid biomicrites and "Bank" limestone with sparry calcite infillings, and either overlies or occurs partly as a lateral equivalent of the Kinsale Formation due to facies changes. K to Z zonal assemblages have been obtained from both the Garryvoe Conglomerate Formation and the Kinsale Formation.
20494438|Pleurobrachia pileus Mller from Galway Bay is a voracious and miscellaneous feeder with a preference for crustaceans, especially copepods. Other food, if available, is ingested during shortages in the copepod supply. The predator-prey relationship between P. pileus and the copepods is one of interdependence. The removal of 70% or more of the copepods from the bay can be effected during the peak abundance of P. pileus. The consequent inadequate food supply may have contributed to the rapid decline in numbers of Pleurobrachia. Up to 70% of P. pileus sampled in Galway Bay have empty guts, suggesting that they may be starved much of the time. Large ctenophores ingest more food and there are fewer large than small specimens with empty guts. Relatively large prey, such as the larv of euphausiids, decapods and fish, are only ingested by the larger ctenophores. It is suspected that larval P. pileus may have different feeding habits.
20519064|Phosphoglucomutase, aspartate aminotransferase, phosphoglucose isomerase and lactate dehydrogenase isozymes were investigated in tissue extracts from naturally-occurring hybrids between three Irish freshwater fish species, rudd, Scardinius erythrophthalmus, roach, Rutilus rutilus, and common bream, Abramis brama, using starch gel electrophoresis. Zymograms of the majority of the hybrids exhibited the isozymes of both parents, with additional isozymes being present in the case of multimeric enzymes. These results demonstrated the genetic intermediacy of F1 cyprinid hybrids. Two specimens were identified as F1 X parental backcrosses on the basis of electrophoretic analysis. The value of electrophoretic methods for confirming the identity of suspected inter-specific hybrids and backcrosses is discussed.
20494509|Difluoro and diphenyl boron chelates of 2-(1H-heteroarylidene)-1H-indene-1,3(2H)-diones (e.g. pyrophthalone and quinophthalone) were prepared, the former by an unusual method of treating the BF adduct with an amine base. Some of the chelates were converted to their thioxo analogues, and the silica catalysed oxidation of the monothiopyrophthalone chelate, yielding an intermediate sulphine, was examined The Baeyer-Villiger oxidation of this chelate to an isocoumarin difluoroboron chelate was also observed.
20518959|The reaction of 1-acyl-4-alkylthiosemicarbazide derivatives with hydrazine is described. 1-Ethoxycarbonylacetyl-4-methylthiosemicarbazide is converted directly to 5-carbazoylmethyl-4-methyl-1,2,4-triazoline-3-thione but 1-ethoxycarbonylacetyl-4-ethylthiosemicarbazide yields 1-(2-carbazoyl)acetyl-4-ethylthiosemicarbazide, which is readily cyclised by sodium hydroxide.
20518968|Distribution records are presented for the 149 species of Syrphidae (hover-flies) now known from Ireland. The syrphid faunas of Ireland and Great Britain are compared and it is suggested that the land-use history of Ireland has been a major factor in determining the present constitution of the Irish syrphid fauna. The notes on each genus incorporate previously unpublished data on habitat preferences and flight habits, together with notes on the determination of species which are difficult to identify.
20494491|Two novel polyether macrocycles are readily synthesised by heating 2(3-hydroxyphenoxy) ethyl p-toluene sulphonate with potassium tert.-butoxide in tert.-butanol. Other conditions and substrates have been investigated but are less successful.
20494941|A swarm of Caledonian dolerites, comprising several hundred individual sheet intrusions, is centred on the Tallaght hills area of south-west County Dublin. The igneous material was introduced along tensional openings controlled by existing structure, and in the central portion of the swarm may equal or exceed the host-rock in volume. The swarm developed after a first--post-Silurian--deformation of the region: after its emplacement a second phase of deformation, accompanied by granite intrusion, occurred. The dolerites are uniform throughout, with widespread, low-temperature, auto-metamorphic, phenomena developing saussurite-uralite assemblages within, and an adinole metasomatism around, the intrusions. Because of their general uniformity, the common presence of gabbroic autoliths of similar mineralogy to the dolerites, and the supporting evidence from geophysical sources, it is felt that the proximate origin of the dolerite was in a magma chamber not far below the present level of exposure of the swarm.
20494401|Irradiation of 3,4,5,6-tetrafluorophthalonitrile in dichloromethane in the presence of anthracene leads to formation of 9-(3,5,6-trifluoro-1,2-dicyanophenyl) anthracene. With phenanthrene an analogous reaction occurs. 3,4,5,6-Tetrachlorophthalonitrile reacts similarly with these aromatic hydrocarbons. A mechanism, involving (i) electron transfer, (ii) radical ion coupling and (iii) loss of hydogen halide, is proposed to account for biaryl formation in these reactions.
20494869|It has been shown that (a) the oxygen consumption of isolated tissues exhibits with changing temperature a series of increases and decreases; that (b) the R.Q. tends to vary with these changes, low values of R.Q. being associated with high values of oxygen consumption; that (c) these changes depend upon the surface activity of the homologous series of fatty acids and appear to result from an amphiphilic binding of fatty acids and oxidising enzymes in liquid crystalline form in the mitochondria; and that (d) the variations in R.Q. are suppressed by large doses of insulin. It is now shown that if slices of the kidneys of rats treated with insulin are immersed for a preliminary period in cold Ringer solutions containing various concentrations of glucose the fixation of the R.Q. is interrupted by a zone of wide oscillations at a concentration of glucose which is higher the greater the dose of insulin. A similar result is obtained by substituting for the glucose the peptising substances glycerol or ethylene glycol. This suggests that the change of R.Q. from 0.7 to 1.0 is a result of the release of the oxidising enzymes from the mitochondria as a consequence of a peptising effect. This facilitates the oxidation of the end products of anaerobic glycolysis. The bearing of these results on the theory of the action of insulin is considered.
20519058|The lithostratigraphy of the Lower Palaeozoic succession of an extensive area of south-east County Wexford is described. Three groups, ten formations and three members are defined, involving a total stratigraphical thickness of at least 10km. A number of important stratigraphical boundaries are described. Lithostratigraphical correlations with nearby areas are discussed. The sediments examined consist of deposits from grain flows, proximal and distal turbidites, contourites and fluxoturbidites, whereas the volcanics comprise andesitic and rhyolitic flows with subaerial or shallow submarine volcaniclastics. A gradual shallowing depositional environment is postulated. Palaeocurrent data indicate predominant lateral erosive and depositional currents flowing from a source area lying to the south-east during pre-Caradoc times. The palaeocurrent trend changed noticeably in Caradoc times. The stratigraphical evolution of the area is discussed in the light of the available evidence.
20494473|Nineteen species of stonefly are recorded in Ireland: Brachyptera risi, Amphinemura sulcicollis, Nemoura avicularis, N. cinerea, Nemurella pictetii, Protonemura meyeri, P. praecox, Leuctra fusca, L. hippopus, L. inermis, Capnia atra, C. bifrons, Diura bicaudata, Isoperla grammatica, Perlodes microcephalus, Dinocras cephalotes, Perla bipunctata, Chloroperla tripunctata, Siphonoperla torrentium. However, records are lacking from south-east Galway, Offaly, Fermanagh, Tyrone and Londonderry, and whether or not P. microcephalus is extant in Ireland is unknown. Notes on their abundance, emergence periods, presence in the diet of fish, and identification are presented. The Irish stonefly fauna is compared with that of mainland Europe, Britain, the Isle of Man and the Orkney Islands. The absence of Taeniopteryx nebulosa from, and widespread distribution of S. torrentium in, Ireland are noted. In contrast to mainland Europe, the Irish stonefly fauna has survived the twentieth century well. The conservation of populations of C. atra, D. bicaudata and D. cephalotes is considered desirable, and the value of monitoring the distribution of stoneflies is discussed.
20494449|The development and hatching rate of the eggs of Protonemura meyeri Pictet were investigation at five constant water temperatures ranging between 55 and 30C. A curvilinear response (
20494303|An account of investigations into the extent and effects of emission of lead by some industries in the Dublin area is presented. Lead levels in rainwater, air and soil samples were found to be higher in the vicinity of the sources of emission than at other sites. A number of fruit and vegetable samples grown in the neighbourhood of the emission sources were analysed and some were found to have excessive levels of lead. Blood lead levels of a number of adults and urine lead levels and urine  - aminolevulinic acid levels of a number of children were measured. They showed no evidence of adverse effects on health due to pollution by lead.
20494407|One - and several -amino-nitriles have been found to react with acetone in the presence of sodium methoxide to give the acetone-amino-amide Schiff bases, from which the amino-amides may be liberated by mild acid hydrolysis. This method of hydrolysing the nitrile group may owe its extraordinary facility to a mechanism which shares some of the characteristics of an enzymatic hydrolysis.
20494252|1. An account of some Simuliidae taken in the course of a national survey is given. 2. Some new country records are listed and an attempt is made to assess the distribution of the group in Ireland. 3. A new pattern variant of S. brevicaule is described. 4. Growth data are presented for three species in a small stream system in western Ireland.
20494560|Marine and freshwater fish species were anaesthetised with MS-222 and killed by cervical fracture, and specimens of myotomal muscle were taken immediately. The concentrations of ATP in muscle ranged from 2.5  0.5mol/g to 5.9  0.4mol/g, values similar to those found in mammalian skeletal muscle. The concentrations of creatine phosphate were between 8.1  0.9mol/g and 1.6  0.9mol/g. Glycogen content was typically lower than that of mammalian muscle. The concentrations of lactate (4.3  0.5mol/g to 14.2  1.3mol/g) and the high pH ( 7) indicated that the fish had not been stressed ante-mortem, nor had significant contraction of muscle occurred at death. Stunning by means of electrocution or narcotisation with CO significantly reduced the concentration of ATP and creatine phosphate, and these procedures would therefore be expected to accelerate the onset of rigor mortis. Muscle of female fish contained significantly higher concentrations of creatine phosphate than muscle from males, but there was no difference in the concentrations of ATP.
20519063|The lower reaches of the River Quoile (Co. Down) and the associated marshes have been declared a Nature Reserve, mainly because of their rich avifauna. Poor quality effluent, especially from Downpatrick, is discharged into the river and the effect of this on the biology of the river is described. The bottom fauna is impoverished below the discharge, bacterial and algal counts and primary productivity are high. Sea water passes upstream from the barrage and may induce a stable salinity-based stratification in which the noted severe anoxia can develop. Notwithstanding this poor overall condition, rudd fishing remains of very good quality and provided the capacity of the offending conventional sewage works can be increased, more sophisticated effluent treatment seems inappropriate on purely conservationist grounds.
20494956|The synthesis and antituberculosis activity of substituted aryl- and alkyl-Rimino-phenazines are described and an attempt is made to relate structure to biological activity.
20518929|Barnacle geese wintering in Ireland and Scotland comprise the population breeding in east Greenland. This has increased from 11,800 to 23,970 between 1957 and 1973. However, numbers wintering in Ireland have remained stable at approximately 4,400. Differential breeding success in Greenland of Scottish and Irish birds may account for this difference. Ringing recoveries suggest that these have different breeding grounds. A thirteen-year study on the Inishkea Islands, Co. Mayo, which hold over 50% of the Irish birds has revealed a population fluctuating between 1,530 and 2,800 geese, with mean rates of recruitment and loss at 7.8% and 8.3% per annum. Overall, the mean brood size is 1.91 and the proportion of first winter birds 6.5%. There are significant positive correlations between mean brood size and both number and percentage of first winter birds; also between temperature on the wintering ground and mean brood size the following summer. It is suggested that availability of wintering grounds and temperature, through its effect on production of winter food, may be critical factors controlling breeding success in the Irish population. Sociological factors impinging on the population are considered, and it is concluded that barnacle geese should remain protected.
20494880|Upper Carboniferous (Namurian) strata outcropping in an EW folded area north-east of Castleisland, Co. Kerry, and about 100 sq. miles in extent, have been mapped and the succession of about 5,500 feet of sandstones and shales divided into five formations. These have been allocated, on the evidence of their goniatite faunas, to the following Namurian stages and zones: Clare Shales (Arnsbergian, E2, and Sabdenian, H1), Cloone Flagstones and Glenowen Shales (Kinderscoutian, R1), Feale Sandstones (Marsdenian, R2), Ballynahown Sandstones (?). The earliest sandstones have the sedimentary features of turbidites in contrast to those later in the succession which are rhythmic and have 'channel' sandstones. There has been lithological control of tectonic deformation and three successive structural zones are established, distinguished by intensity and mode of folding.
