24061516|Those sections of forest along the Te Anau lake shore, resting on unconsolidated material and within ca. 3m of the maximum natural lake level (204.3m above mean sea level), could be threatened by the predicted water table effects (Mark et al. 1972) of lake manipulation required for hydroelectric development. The floristics and structure of this forest were investigated. Five forest associations have been recognised, apparently related to differences in soil moisture conditions.
24061396|Transects at right angles to the shoreline are used to describe seven herbaceous, two scrub and four forest communities of the lake edge. Composition, structure, site preference and relation to lake level are given for these communities. The effect of browsing mammals on the flora and structure of mountain beech forest is shown by comparison of forest on Buncrana Island with that on the adjacent mainland. Shoreline vegetation is compared with that recorded from other areas in Fiordland.
24061518|The results of a survey of the presence and populations of the tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) and the Polynesian rat or kiore (Rattus exulans) on 35 islands off the New Zealand coast are presented and discussed. Tuataras were found on 23 of these, and on six they occur with kiore. The age distributions and densities of the tuatara populations suggest that decline because of failure of recruitment is occurring on seven  the six kiore-inhabited islands and one other. Seven more kiore-inhabited islands within island groups which otherwise support tuataras apparently lack any tuataras themselves. These findings strengly suggest that tuataras cannot persist in the presence of this rat.
24061495|The effect of different densities of tussocks (Festuca novae-zelandiae, Poa laevis) in short tussock grassland associations was studied using transplanted cocksfoot (Dactylis glomerata) seedlings as indicators of inter-tussock plant growth. The dense tussock associations considerably modified the microclimate, reduced frost damage and initially promoted cocksfoot growth. Sparse tussock associations did not generally promote cocksfoot growth unless plants were near the tussock base and sheltered from the prevailing wind.
24061361|In 1898 Cockayne described succession in subalpine vegetation which had been burnt eight years previously at Arthurs Pass. In 1932 Cockayne and Calder repeated the observations and Calder established ten charted transects, which were re-charted during the summer of 196566. In subalpine scrub, the path of the succession is broadly as follows, although details vary from site to site: 1 year after the fire: appearance of Marchantia and ruderal angiosperms. 210 years: Hebe spp. and Cassinia fulvida enter and rise to dominance. Seedlings of climax species also enter, but are relatively slow-growing. Fire-tolerant herbs such as Hypolepis millefolum and Phormium colensoi may be conspicuous. 40 years: Senecio bennettii becomes dominant, Hebe almost disappears. 75 years: Dracophyllum longifolium and later Phyllocladus alpinus regain their original dominance. Low subalpine forest passes through comparable initial stages, but it is probably about 200 years before the characteristic small trees Dracophyllum traversii, Dacrydium biforme and Libocedrus bidwillii reach maturity, although their seedlings may appear within 40 years of a fire. In contrast, regeneration of destroyed Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides forest may be rapid, but there is very little tendency for beech to invade scrub and grassland beyond the the original forest boundaries. In Chionochloa grassland the effect of fire is to allow herb-field species  notably species of Celmisia  to achieve at least physiognomic dominance for a few years.
24061423|In the winters of 1968 and 1969 a survey was made of the growth and distribution of bryophyte and lichen species within communities on tree trunks, stone walls, non-metallic roofs and soil in Christchurch, New Zealand. The survey was stimulated by European and Scandinavian work which has shown that high levels of urban and industrial air pollution have caused severe reductions in the distribution of normally-abundant cryptogams. The present survey has demonstrated that a similar, but at present less severe, reduction in bryophyte and lichen flora occurs in Christchurch. Removal of sensitive species through their inability to grow at even moderate levels of winter pollution is considered the most likely cause. An initial transplant experiment indicates that damage to sensitive mosses like Hypnum and Brachythecium may occur within 3 months of exposure to city air. Gilbert and others have shown that, in northern England, sensitive mosses and lichens begin to die when the average winter sulphur dioxide level reaches 50 g./m.3 of air. This relationship has been confirmed in Christchurch, a moderately polluted city. Numbers of species and the area covered by sensitive mosses, hepatics and lichens reduce sharply along a broad transect into the centre of Christchurch from the west. Further work should display the distribution patterns of sensitive species. However, the information reported here demonstrates the possibility of using changes in selected mosses and lichens to indicate the trends in winter sulphur dioxide pollution in the city. Many of the genera and species of bryophytes and lichens prominent in the English survey were also found to be common in Christchurch. Introduction on plants and building materials during colonial times is considered likely.
24064285|A population of red beech (Nothofagus fusca) seedlings was studied in a forest dominated by red beech but apparently with little regeneration. Estimates of the germination, growth and survival rates of seedlings growing on different microsites were obtained in three, one hectare stands over a one year period and the size and age structure of the population examined. Irregular and sometimes massive seedfalls occur but some seedlings establish at least every two or three years. The most favourable site for red beech seedling survival and growth is on rotting logs, but bare areas on the forest floor are also suitable. Extensive stands of Dicksonia lanata completely prevent seedling establishment. A simple model based on estimated survival rates on the various microsites and assuming certain patterns of seed input suggests that the population size is likely to be maintained or increased in the future. Little evidence was found for an adverse effect by introduced animals on the seedling population.
24061391|Part of Auckland's water supply is obtained from 16,190ha in the Hunua ranges. Some 7600ha of this area is suitable for production forestry. The desirability of forestry practice within an operating water catchment is discussed, experimental work being done is outlined and tentative conclusions drawn. Providing adequate safeguards are maintained there appears to be no reason why forestry should not be practised within catchments operated for domestic water supply.
24061417|The distribution and rates of spread of different growth forms of S. townsendii and of S. alterniflora in New Zealand are discussed and rates of sedimentation measured in Spartina plantations in Northland are compared with those recorded in Southland and in England. Gross productivities of plantations in Northland are compared with English and American data and problems associated with foreshore protection are considered. Spartina is undoubtedly a valuable plant aid to land reclamation, but its introduction to new areas should take into account both alternative uses of aquatic environments and problems arising from its uncontrolled spread.
24061484|The arthropods of the floors of six forest types (three podocarp/beech forests, a beech forest without podocarps, a young plantation of Pinus radiata and a podocarp/hardwood forest) were examined. The podocarp/beach forests are richest in species and numbers of animals. The beech forest has fewer species and individuals than podocarp/beech but also has less varied litter. Most species found in beech are also present in podocarp/beech. Young P. radiata has an impoversihed fauna with few species and low numbers of animals. Some animals are able to survive in protected situations and deep organic deposits when beech is cut over and burnt prior to planting with pines. The podocarp/hardwood forest examined has fewer species and lower numbers of animals than the other indigenous forest types probably because of unfavourable soil and climatic conditions.
24061397|At non-rocky sites on the shorelines of Lakes Manapouri and Te Anau floristic composition was recorded for one-foot intervals of elevation above and below lake level. Mean daily levels recorded since 1932 have been analysed to find the longest periods of submergence and emergence experienced at each level. A hypothesis that species distribution is governed by extremes of submergence and emergence is supported by the similar periods recorded at the limits of each species at both lakes. At rocky sites at Lake Manapouri the relationship between lake level fluctuation and species ranges is modified by exposure to wind and waves. The means by which species limits are determined by lake level fluctuation and the effect of the lake on reproductive biology are discussed. A full list of species is appended, with information on their habitats.
24064278|The stomach contents of 34 opossums collected from Otari reserve, Wellington, New Zealand, were examined and fragments of leaves and leaf cuticles were identified. Leaves were the main food though flowers, fruit and at least one insect were also taken. The main species eaten were kohekohe (Dysoxylum spectabile), pohuehue (Muehlenbeckia australis), hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus), climbing rata (Metrosideros fulgens), five-finger (Pseudopanax arboreum), tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa) and lawyer (Rubus cissoides).
24061428|A new model has been developed for estimating density of plant or animal populations. For uniform, randomly-distributed or contagious populations which are distributed with one or two orders of aggregation, it employs the distance from each sample point to the nearest population member, from that individual to the nearest neighbour and from that neighbour to its nearest neighbour. The principle of the model is that an estimate of density is first obtained from the sample point-nearest population member distances. This point-distance estimate is then corrected for bias arising from non-randomness by using the sums and frequencies of first and second neighbour distances. Procedures are given for extending the model to populations distributed with three or more orders of contagion. The model was tested on five populations of dots, of which four were contagious, two pine plantations of uniform distribution and a population of the contagiously-distributed Composite, Celmisia spectabilis. Estimates were all within 25% of the true values. The model is considered to be suitable for estimating a wide variety of populations.
24064251|Recent research into the origins and compositions of the stomach oils unique to sea-birds of the order Procellariiformes is reviewed. The sources of these oils, most of which contain mainly wax esters and/or triglycerides, is discussed in relation to the presence of such compounds in the marine environment. A number of functions are proposed as the ecological roles of the oils, including their use as slowly-mobilisable energy and water reserves for adults and chicks and as defensive weaponry for surface-nesting species. Suggestions are made for further research, particularly into physiological and nutritional aspects.
24061509|The Black Rock Scientific Reserve has been set aside to preserve an area of low altitude snow tussock grassland. The reserve consists of gently rolling ridges covered in a narrow-leaved snow tussock (Chionochloa rigida) association, substantially intact or in various stages of degradation, and shallow gullies containing Sphagnum bog and minor grassland communities. To enable changes in the snow tussock association to be studied, four one hectare permanent quadrats have been established and sampled by Scott's height frequency method. If the reserve is to fulfil its designated purpose, exotic brush weeds and fire must be controlled.
24061401|Four small catchments of the Taita Experimental Basin are being studied. The soils, geology, meteorological and hydrological characteristics and vegetation are well documented. The flux of reactive phosphorus through the system is examined in detail. Reactive phosphorous run-off from a grassed catchment was about twice as much as from forested catchments.
24064254|Surveys of bird life in forests below about 600m a.s.l. in the West Coast Beech Project Area have shown wide differences from place to place in the abundance of 13 more common native birds. Some variation can be attributed to the range of different types of forest represented in the area. The results are consistent with the diversity of bird habitats in the West Coast Beech Project Area and provide a basis for its representation in a network of conservation areas. The wildlife values of the Area are as much a function of the large expanse of continuous, relatively undisturbed forests as the diversity of habitats itself. Alternative strategies for management of the production forests are examined in relation to the maintenance of this continuity, and recommendations are put forward.
24061420|A preliminary report is given of a survey, made in 1968, of various islands in the Chatham Group (240,000 acres, 44 S., 176 30 W.). Regeneration of vegetation on South-East Island (540 acres) has been considerable since sheep were finally removed in 1961. Mangere Island (279 acres) was declared a reserve and all sheep destroyed in 1968. Recovery of its vegetation will provide increased habitat for the small populations of Forbes' parakeet and the Chatham Island robin, now found only on Little Mangere Island (10 acres). Urgent action is still necessary to conserve bird and plant communities found only on the two main islands, Chatham (224,000 acres) and Pitt (15,630 acres).
24061413|In many animal populations age distribution has been studied as a basic component of population structure. In plants, developmental plasticity and vegetative reproduction may mean that age distribution is less significant than size distribution, particularly in production processes occurring within populations. Changes in size distribution with time and at different densities are discussed, with particular reference to herbaceous monocultures. The relationship between size distribution and 'productive structure' (layering) is considered and examples of the verticla profile of chlorophyll content have been taken from three herb communities. The effects of these population attributes on rates of mortality and turnover, gross production, net production and biomass are discussed and a graphic model is presented which relates aspects of production to density.
24061398|Approximately 44 per cent of the forested mainland shoreline of Lake Te Anau appears to be vulnerable to high water tables maintained for unnaturally long periods. Results of 22 traverses across representative sites suggest a delicate ecological balance between natural lake level variation, shoreline relief and vegetation. Root distribution of beech trees along the shoreline confirms their general intolerance of prolonged inundation although diameter growth of trees growing on unconsolidated material showed a significant decline during a drought season rather than in an exceptionally wet one.
24061422|A brief outline of the history of air pollution measurements in Christchurch is given with an outline of the factors which influence them, such as climate, fuels used, topography, etc. A short discussion on the D.S.I.R. survey and other more recent work follows. From the present data, it seems that sulphur dioxide levels have remained relatively constant and smoke in the central city area has decreased, whereas in the residential areas it has remained relatively constant. Levels in the months of June and July are now far removed from those in London.
24061510|On farmland near Waverley, New Zealand, 550 opossums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were shot between October 1968 and November 1969, and their stomach contents were analysed to find the ratio of pasture species to non-pasture species eaten. Pasture species (grass and clover) formed about 30 percent of their diet. The economic loss to the farmer, where opossums are numerous, could be considerable.
24064252|The feeding ecology of the starling, Sturnus vulgaris, was studied in Canterbury from 1968-71. Starlings fed in flocks which varied seasonally in composition and behaviour. During breeding, parent birds fed in small isolated multispecific flocks which after breeding, coalesced into much larger more regimented monospecific flocks. Starlings dietary patterns varied seasonally both in diversity and composition, and were influenced by seasonal and local patterns of abundance of food species. Even so, birds occasionally selected certain food species at the expense of other, more common species. The birds selectively foraged on seasonally occurring field forms, especially on cereal stubbles, fields being tilled and well-stocked heavily-grazed pasture. Numerical dietary evaluations indicated that animals foods constituted 90% of the intake of free-flying starlings, while the remaining 10% consisted largely of cereal and weed seeds. Subsequent caloric estimates of the ingesta altered the numerically established level of importance of some foods, and revealed the insect orders Coleoptera and Lepidoptera to be most important. Notable in these orders were the families Scarabaeidae, Elateridae, Curculionidae, Hepialidae, Pyralidae and Noctuidae. Earthworms, lycosid spiders, Diptera and Hemiptera were less important elements and taken infrequently. The diet of nestling starlings was similar to the spring diet of free-flying birds, although small nestlings were fed with small soft-bodied foods. Nestlings averaged about 50 meals/day and when mid-way through their nestling period, consumed approximately 13 Calories/day of metabolizable food.
24064209|Examination of the fish faunas of estuaries in New Zealand suggests that they have resident faunas of low diversity. However the estuaries serve as pathways in the migrations of a few marine fish species and a wide range of freshwater fish species. For this reason it is important that estuaries remain free from pollution and habitat modification.
24061414|The ryegrass cultivars, Grasslands Manawa and Grasslands Ruanui, were grown in simulated swards in replacement series under systems involving a 22 arrangement of height and frequency of cutting. Estimates of plant survival at two dates indicate greater overall mortality in the Manawa population. In the earlier part of the experiment the death of Manawa, and of Ruanui plants  particularly when mixed with Manawa  was greater under infrequent than frequent cutting. This effect is mainly attributed to competition for light excluding more prostrate individuals. In the later period drought was probably the important factor determining the survival of plants, with Manawa plants of small size and at high densities being most susceptible. Examination of the frequency distribution of tiller number per plant at three sampling dates showed trends similar to those obtained by Koyama and Kira (1956). The frequency distributions were approximately normal at the earliest sampling date but became progressively more skewed towards L-type distributions later. The skew was more pronounced for Manawa and was emphasised for Ruanui when it was the minority component in mixture with Manawa. Infrequent cutting promoted the development of a skewed distribution. Changes in the relative reproductive rate of the cultivars with change in the proportion of the cultivars in the mixtures were examined by the use of ratio diagrams. These indicated a general trend of greater relative reproductive rate of Manawa when it was sown at a ratio low in comparison with the intermediate seeding ratio. Thereafter the relative reproductive rate remained constant or increased at higher seeding ratios of Manawa.
24061421|The vegetation of Whatupuke Island (240 acres, lat. 35 54 S., long. 174 45 E.) is discussed under six headings: (1) Coastal herbs, grasses and shrubs; (2) Cordyline forest; (3)(5) three phases in the succession after burning, with kanuka (Leptospermum ericoides) as a major species; and (6) puriri (Vitex lucens)  pohutukawa (Metrosideros excelsa) forest. Stands of the latter are probably the most mature to be found on the Chicken Islands. The soils have been classified as related to the northern brown granular loams and clays on the eastern portion (overlying rocks of the Coppermine plutonic series) and as northern yellow-brown earths on the western end (overlying metamorphosed sedimentary rocks). 170 species of vascular plants were found on the island. Of these, 18 were not found on adjacent Coppermine Island, 40 species are added to the list for Coppermine Island, and 22 previous records are not confirmed. Petrel burrows were found on all soil types provided there was sufficient depth, relatively open vegetative cover and at least a gradual slope.
24064281|Predictive and conceptual models are used to examine the contamination, toxicology, and residues of sodium fluoroacetate (Compound 1080) in relation to its application in vertebrate pest control programmes on forest and pastoral lands. As a pesticide, the toxin appears to be neither mobile nor persistent. Exceedingly slender opportunities exist therefore for significant contamination of susceptible components of the environment.
24061519|On three island groups off the northeast coast of New Zealand, fewer lizard species and markedly fewer individuals occurred on islands inhabited by Polynesian rats or kiore than on other islands without rats. Nocturnal, ground-dwelling lizards that forage in the open were most affected, which suggests that predation by kiore is the cause. The generally low densities and disjunct distributions of some lizards on the New Zealand mainland may have resulted from the introduction of kiore at least 600 years ago.
24064282|The relationship between soil pattern and forest cover in the Inangahua Depression, West Coast, is examined and discussed. The relative effects of five soil forming factors, topography, parent material, climate, time and organisms are considered. The first four factors may be placed in a sequence of decreasing importance from climate through time and topography to parent material. The soil pattern, predominantly yellow-brown earths, and the present distribution of vegetation are given, and the interactions between soil and vegetation discussed. A separate section attempts to describe the history of soil development and forest colonisation in the light of published evidence and the results of recent soil and forest surveys. Conclusions are threefold. First, the beech and podocarp forest type that predominates in the Depression has enhanced the development of the major soil groups of the area. Second, there is a direct relationship between the pattern of forest types and soils over only about half the area considered. Third, a straightforward developmental sequence can be established to explain the present distribution of soils and vegetation without necessarily invoking recent climatic change.
24064220|The data of Atkinson and Greenwood (1972) on drought damage to trees in 1969-70 in two bush patches in the Manawatu district are reassessed, and an index of drought susceptibility based on their data used to classify species into three categories of susceptibility. The results of this categorisation are compared with independent data on the effects of the 1972-73 drought on the nearby bush remnant at Ashhurst Domain. The behaviour of species in all three bush patches is shown to be similar. Comparison is also made with scanty data from other bush remnants, and with the upper altitudinal limits of the species in each category. The results suggest that the different tree species involved have intrinsically different susceptibilities to water stress, which partially explains why in nature they are sorted into hydrologically different situations. The potential application of knowledge on the drought susceptibility of species to reserve management on the one hand, and to past climatic reconstruction using dendrochronology and population structure on the other, is pointed out.
24064249|Caged opossums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were fed on leaves of one or more of their normal food plants and on a pelleted commercial food ration. The number of faecal pellets voided per day (24 hour) was proportional to the amount of food eaten. Opossums maintaining a constant body weight produced 98.3 ( s.e. 3.0) pellets per day, confirming earlier estimates from less natural diets.
24064277|The first deer to invade an area of forest on Secretary Island show an almost exclusive preference for bark of Pseudopanax colensoi var. ternatum. Young shoots of P. linearis and juvenile P. crassifolium are also sought. Intensive browsing is begun in areas of Asplenium bulbiferum and continued where Polystichum vestitum and bushes of Coprosma spp. are plentiful. The foregoing are the main species being killed by deer but others are being taken in increasing quantity. Difficult access has made the island a mosaic of undamaged, selectively browsed and intensively browsed vegetation. The prospects of eliminating deer by poisoning are probably best while P. colensoi bark is available for bait.
24061511|Insects are listed from the Poor Knights Islands of New Zealand. Few records have been previously published, and these are briefly reviewed. The list contains 27 species; 23 are new records. Dispersal mechanisms are discussed in relation to published information on insect and other invertebrate distribution on offshore islands of the east coast of the North Island.
24061432|Sightings by residents and visitors to Kapiti from 19061969 indicate one small colony of bats with a steady population of about 12 located south of Rangatira. The flight pattern, times of emergence and the lack of sightings during winter suggest that the long-tailed bat (Chalinolobus tuberculatus Forster) may be the only species present. The 1907 report by Cockayne that the long-eared bat was abundant is taken as a misprint for long-tailed bat and not the rarer short-tailed bat (Mystacina tuberculata Gray). The continued survival of bats in the presence of high numbers of Rattus norvegicus, R. exulans and Trichosurus vulpecula and in a changing forest environment, is briefly discussed.
24061383|Emotion rather than studied reason seems to pervade virtually all discussions of environmental problems these days. "Pollution" has become a loaded word implicitly condemning what it describes. The anti-pollution lobby is vociferous and its condemnation of industry may be dangerously indiscriminate; pollution is an economic not a moral issue.
24061362|This is a brief, non-mathematical survey of some of the most common methods of numerically classifying large numbers of individuals according to their attributes. The article is intended as an introduction to the subject, and is not intended to be in any way definitive. An appendix briefly discusses the results of a simple classification exercise.
24061512|This describes changes due to grazing that occurred in the vegetation and topography of a previously ungrazed, riparian site. Grazing made the site more susceptible to erosion by eliminating the main pioneer species, Phalaris arundinacea, a rhizomatous reed grass.
24061491|Seedlings of five native tussock species grown in the glasshouse on mountain subsoil showed outstanding responses to nitrogen and phosphorus fertiliser in combination. The most vigorous species was silver tussock but this produced less dry matter than an introduced grass, Yorkshire fog, grown on the same soil. Tussocks in general responded positively to applications of magnesium and potassium but growth was depressed by lime. In field sowings at two sites under different vegetative covers tussock seedling survivals over a five summer period were very low. Improved survival in early years through protection by cover species appeared to be offset in later years by competition for nutrients from the same species. Best survival rates were shown by blue tussock and silver tussock.
24061355|Comparable sites were examined on Rahui Island, Lake Waikareiti, which is free of introduced mammals, and on the adjacent mainland, which is not. The forest understorey density in Nothofagus fusca/N. menziesii forest has been reduced on the mainland. In the mainland forest there are fewer plants of Pseudopanax and Coprosma spp. and more plants of Dracophyllum pyramidale and Dicksonia lanata. Regeneration of Nothofagus menziesii, Phyllocladus glaucus, and Quintinia acutifolia is greater in the mainland forest and regeneration of Podocarpus spp. and N. fusca is occurring. The vegetation cover below 6 in. is less on the mainland but there is no difference in litter and topsoil depths. Changes in the mainland forest composition are attributed to the effects of the mammals.
24064248|Red deer and wapiti are sympatric in part of Fiordland National Park. Caughley (1971a), on the basis of Fisher's Discriminant Function of 22 skull measurements divided the mixed population of the eastern catchments into 38% red deer, 20% hybrids and 42% wapiti. The same skulls were re-examined with 15 measurements, and re-evaluated against red deer from South Westland, wapiti from Montana and Canada, and further samples from the mixed population area. Separation was based on a polythetic agglomerative cluster analysis, and by comparing groups so shown with those indicated by step-wise 3-group discriminant analysis, 2-group discriminant analysis, and matching of length of skulls. The sample was concluded to comprise only 8% red deer, 52% hybrids and 40% wapiti. The use of North American specimens as controls was dismissed as invalid because they are larger and exhibit different patterns of growth to animals in Fiordland. The Wapiti Area population is in poor physical condition. The wapiti show, compared with American conspecifics, proportionally high priority for growth of the neurocranium and maxillary region, and slower growth of the viscerocranium. Non-linear changes of most of the cranial bones, compared with length, show that growth occurs in well defined stanzas whereby from three to five years it is concentrated on length characters, after which the skull proportionally broadens. These changes of shape, associated with increase in size throughout life, blur the fidelity of discriminant analysis. Hybridism in this population is attributed principally to dominant wapiti bulls mating with red deer, hybrid and wapiti females and thereby absorbing most of the red deer into a hybrid gene pool. The hybrid group is morphologically bimodal ("red-like hybrid" and "wapiti-like hybrid") and the range of forms is virtually continuous between the two parent species. Dominance of wapiti is probably reinforced by their breeding season being about two weeks earlier than that of red deer. Grouping of these forms by cranial analysis gives diagnoses which are highly correlated with morphological descriptions of type based on pelage, size and other external characteristics. Consistent with this result, culling of red deer and hybrids by experienced hunters is highly selective.
24061231|A detailed list is given of the species of macrolichens collected from the western slopes of the Humboldt Mountains, Fiordland. The composition and possible importance is discussed of "sub-regional" lichen communities.
24064222|Olearia lyallii occurs on forested islands south of mainland New Zealand. It was apparently introduced accidentally to the Auckland Islands by sealers in the early 19th century. It is still spreading, but is not yet found beyond Port Ross, three of the Port Ross islands and the north-east shores of the main island. It supplants the dominant forest tree, Metrosideros umbellata, because it has greater tolerance to partial shade and salt spray; it grows faster and taller and is not browsed. Olearia forest is floristically simpler than Metrosideros forest. Seed can be dispersed by wind and possibly by visiting scientists. When the present juvenile plants mature the rate of spread will increase. The potential impact of Olearia lyallii on the indigenous vegetation should be considered in the management plans for the reserve.
24061483|The main purposes of biological reserves in the northern West Coast and western Southland beech forest management regions and some factors affecting their selection are described. Their total area is about 30,000 ha in the West Coast region and about 5,000 ha in western Southland (excluding Waitutu State Forest).
24064250|Breeding season and fertility of Oryctolagus cuniculus (L) in North Canter-bury, New Zealand, were determined from the dissection of 6692 rabbits between 1968 and 1970. The breeding season lasted for 243 days during spring, summer and early autumn. The seasonal fertility of the population was 29 young per female per season. This was higher than that found for rabbits in Hawke's Bay but no different from populations studied in Great Britain or Australia. The higher rate recorded in North Canterbury compared with Hawke's Bay is due to the longer breeding season and not to any change in litter size.
24064276|The feeding behaviour of four adult caged hedgehogs was studied for a period of 22 weeks. The maximum feeding activity of all four animals occurred between 1900 and 2200 hours, and two of them showed a second, but minor, peak of activity about 0300 hours. Individual feeds were of short duration with the first feed each evening tending to exceed the mean. Variations in behaviour between individuals were considered to be a function of their differing body weights, or to be related to the size of the sample. The feeding behaviour of the caged animals was similar to that reported from comparable field studies.
24061297|Agouti grey pelage, as found in the opossum and many other mammals, is a generalised concealing coloration. In dense vegetation melanic pelage also is concealing, but the melanic phase displaces the grey one in rain forests where, in the current absence of predation, selection is not for colour. This local dominance suggests close linkage of genes for melanism with ones for toleration of humidity. Since food trees of the opossum are killed by heavy browsing, a low birth rate conserves limited resources. Elimination of surplus young would not be effective in this because there is a long period of maternal protection, and young do not face direct competition for food before reaching an age of one and a half years. Increase of reproductive rate is beneficial to the species when vacant habitat is available, but such an increase is dangerous unless curbed after population establishment. Field evidence in New Zealand shows that, despite abundance of food, a low reproductive rate is usual. This would be expected if the pioneer and the established opossum belong to alternative genetic phases, analagous to the visually distinct melanic and grey ones.
24061505|A three year survey of the aquatic vegetation of a New Zealand dune lake is described. Pukepuke Lagoon is a shallow (max. depth 85cm.), slightly saline lagoon with 15ha of open water. Its inflows drain intensively farmed land and are rich in nutrients, especially phosphorus. Dense macrophyte crops characterised the lagoon each spring but the component species differed each year. After a severe drought which dried most of the lagoon bed in the 1969-70 summer, Veronica anagallis-aquatica and Ranunculus fluitans were the dominant species in 1970; then with normal water levels Chara globularis became dominant throughout 1971, followed by Potamogeton crispus in 1972. Factors that enabled the dominant species to gain an early competitive advantage are discussed. Drying of the lagoon bed in 1970 is regarded as the major disrupting feature that initiated the sequence of plant species described. Phyto-plankton crops, estimated from chlorophyll a pigment, were low during macrophyte growth phases but reached peaks in the summer of 1971-72 and 1972-73; the former being responsible for the destruction of Chara. The competitive balance between phyto-plankton and macrophytes is a delicate one but the shallow water of Pukepuke Lagoon tends to favour the macrophytes.
24064274|Deficiencies in knowledge of New Zealand plants are outlined, particularly with regard to conservation status and distribution. In an effective and integrated approach to the documentation and study of rare and endangered plants four aspects must be considered: documentation of individual taxa, provision of effective protective legislation, preservation of populations in the wild and in cultivation, and education of both the general public and botanists. In discussing these, mention is made of a documentation scheme currently in operation at Botany Division, and of deficiencies and needs in most aspects of rare and threatened plant conservation. Although there is an increasing interest in such biota, the author concludes that New Zealand has still not achieved a balanced outlook on its unique flora.
24064207|Chesapeake Bay is one of the largest in the world with its shores partly in Virginia and partly in Maryland, and an expected population of 30 million by 2020AD. There is a wide range of shorelines with wetlands used by wildfowl and also with valuable fisheries. It is heavily used for recreation but also for shipping, industry, sewage dispersal, dredge spoil disposal and power generating stations. Pressures for alternations to the Bay are very great and in 1973 over 2000 applications were made to the US Army Corps of Engineers for changes. A study to draw up management guidelines was made by the Chesapeake Research Consortium and they recommended a moratorium on heavily pressurised coastlines. Examples are given of shoreline classification and of pressures resulting from increased sewage effluent disposal and bulkheading applications. Two proposals were considered in detail and management problems arising from them discussed and specific proposals made. Arising from this study a number of lessons were listed from which New Zealand could benefit. In particular it is suggested that groups of estuaries should be under the control of a local estuary commission that should examine all proposals for the group once a year and that an environmental impact report should be produced.
24061386|The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric and Irrigation Scheme is an example of resource development in which fundamental, ecological values of a natural environment were largely retained. Co-operation between ecologists and engineers and flexibility in planning, which allowed modifications prompted by economic and social changes during the long period of construction, contributed to its success. This suggests that greater harmony in the thinking of engineers and ecologists is possible, and it could well be promoted through examples such as that provided by the Snowy scheme.
24061494|An account is given of sand country vegetation at Whatipu Beach in which distribution of plant species is related to physiographic features.
24061384|An outline of a possible set of ecological guidelines for engineers is given. It is based on the complementary approaches of ecological principles, environmental factors, natural landscape units (their properties and limitations) and uses (their requirements and effects). The emphasis would be on biological factors and interactions.
24061419|Current surveys, encouraged by the New Zealand Ecological Society, are showing that a surprising number of native communities still survive on the Canterbury Plains, though in modified form. In 1969 a small area of scrub and grassland with undisturbed soils near Bankside was secured for a scientific reserve  the first of its kind on the Plains. A brief description is given.
24064286|The vegetation of a subalpine mire complex and the inter-relationships of the plant species in it are described. Particular emphasis is placed on the relationship of cushion plant vegetation to other types. Hypothese are advanced to account for the differing vegetation patterns and evidence based on variations in micro-habitats is produced to support these.
24061295|The distribution of parks and reserves in the Canterbury Land District is outlined, and attention is drawn to the predominance of forest and mountain vegetation within the present network of nature conservation. Other natural communities in the land district are then described, and their potential as ecological or scientific reserves is reviewed. In this paper, emphasis is placed on some of the lesser-known communities that still survive in the closely settled environment of the Canterbury Plains. The problems associated with the acquisition and maintenance of reserves are briefly discussed.
24064247|Autopsy data was collected from three chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) populations to investigate the use of various measurements for determining mean planes of nutrition. Signigicant differences in measurements of horn length for each age class between populations were found, indicating that horn length analysis could be used to give some index of population condition. Total body length was significantly different for the youngest age classes of each population. These differences become negligible around three years of age. Analysis of the Arawata population by weight indices showed only slight differences between inter-population areas. Similarly, fecundity rates failed to produce significantly different values for the three populations.
24064275|The effects of age, sex and season on the live weight and weight of liver, ether-extractable fats, fat-free weight and gizzard contents were examined for starlings in Canterbury, New Zealand. Starling live weights varied with age and with the seasonal deposition or mobilization of fat and other stored foods. In spring and summer, non-breeding first-year birds carried relatively more fat than adults. However, adults probably feed more successfully than younger birds as when the activities of both groups were similar (autumn and winter), adults were heavier and had relatively more fat. Dimorphic patterns also existed. In adults these probably resulted from divisions of labour prior to and during breeding.
24061493|Dacrycarpus dacrydioides forests in South Westland between the Waitangitaona and Saltwater rivers occur on low terraces of alluvial silt. Their relationship to other river flat and swamp communities on post-glacial surfaces is described. Recently abandoned river beds are colonised by pioneer species, which give way to vegetation dominated by grasses, sedges and rushes, which in turn are invaded by woody plants, especially Coprosma propinqua and Podocarpus totara var. waihoensis. Seedlings of several tree species grow up under the shrub thickets, leading to young forests dominated by Pennantia corymbosa and various other species on the heavier silts and by Podocarpus totara on stony ground. These forests form a nursery for Dacrycarpus and other podocarps. Mature stands occur on surfaces less then 1,000 years old. They range from those with closely spaced Dacrycarpus trees and correspondingly sparse lower storeys, which are most extensive at the seaward ends of the main valleys, to those with scattered large trees of Dacrycarpus and other podocarps and a dense canopy of small hardwoods, which occur mainly between the meanders of the Waitangiroto and Saltwater rivers. Partial destruction and rejuvenation of Dacrycarpus forest during changes in river courses are discussed. Stands of Dacrycarpus bordering swamps are wetter and include dense colonies of Astelia grandis, Blechnum capense and, near the coast, Freycinetia banksii and Gahnia xanthocarpa. There are transitions to "fertile" swamps dominated by species such as Phormium tenax, to "infertile" swamps on the older post-glacial surfaces with Baumea spp., Calorophus minor, Leptospermum scoparium, small species of Dacrydium, etc. and to coastal swamps bordering tidal lagoons. In some places, Dacrydium cupressinum forest is interpolated between Dacrycarpus forest and "infertile" swamp. The extent of mature Dacrycarpus forest seems disproportionately large in relation either to the frequency of young trees within the mature stands or to the extent of seral forest containing young Dacrycarpus. The apparent imbalance resembles that which has been previously described for hill stands of podocarps, although the condition of the stands near the coast may be related to tectonic uplift of the coast line. Dacrycarpus forms a highly distinctive forest, meriting effective conservation, but the best existing reserves are in areas threatened by changing river courses. Reserves should therefore include the seral stages leading towards mature stands.
24064287|Six stands of lowland vegetation representing transitions from pakihi bog to mixed beech-podocarp forest are described quantitatively from the coastal plain of the Arawata and Jackson Rivers in South Westland. The sequence depicts progressive changes in canopy height, biomass and floristic richness, and appears to involve, at least in part, a primary succession. Some boundaries have been sharpened by periodic fires but the longterm trend remains unobscured. Pollen evidence indicates that the pakihi bog began as a lake when the surrounding area was forested by both podocarps and silver beech. The bog seems never to have supported a woody vegetation but in the absence of fire, forest would slowly encroach on it. With a highway traversing the sequence. its reservation for educational and scientific purposes has been proposed.
24064284|Based on the identification of plant fragments four main types of peat may be distinguished in northern New Zealand, namely forest peat, sedge peat, restiad peat and moss peat.
24064245|Mortality of forest and scrub species from most deltas of the Lake Te Anau shoreline is described following unnaturally prolonged flooding during 1975. Despite a high incidence of pinhole borer in the affected beech trees there is conclusive evidence that the mortality in most species was due to prolonged high water tables that exceeded the tolerances of many important shoreline species. Differential mortality in Leptospermum scoparium (manuka) apparently depended on whether or not plants were totally submerged for substantial periodstheir root systems appear to be tolerant of indefinite flooding. The results have substantiated previous predictions on submergence tolerance of species from lake-shore forest and scrub communities. These tolerance values had been derived by indirect methods and form the basis of the high-level operational guidelines for use of the lake waters for hydro-electric generation.
24061299|Plotless methods were used to sample four forest stands situated at different altitudes on Mount Colenso, Ruahine mountain range, North Island, New Zealand. The altitudinal distributions of the main woody species are described graphically. All species have overlapping altitudinal ranges, so that no clear altitudinal 'belts' can be distinguished. The forest composition is regarded as a continuum showing gradual variation from diverse mixed (podocarp-beech) forest on the terraces of the Kawhatau river (c. 2000 ft. above sea level), through red beech (Nothofagus fusca) dominated forest at intermediate altitudes, to Libocedrus / Dacrydium forest at the upper limits of tree growth (c. 4000 ft. a.s.l.). The splitting of this continuum into forest types defined by canopy dominants is briefly discussed. Tree seedling populations show a decrease in specific diversity, though not in total numbers, with increasing altitude. A significant decline in soil pH with altitude is demonstrated. Surface soils with a pH greater than 5.5 are rare above c. 3500 ft. a.s.l. but frequent at lower altitudes.
24061358|In August 1966, the entire population of hitherto undisturbed feral goats on Macauley Island, Kermadec Group, New Zealand, was destroyed. Of 3,200 animals (4/acre) 1,047 were examined after death. Primary coat colours were black (37.8%), tan (11.9%) and white (0.7%). Horns were mostly of the twisted 'prisca' type, maximum lengths being 20.3 in. for males and 9.5 in. for females. Of 118 mandibles 8% showed a range of abnormalities including localised excessive wear, diseased alveolar bone and loss of teeth. Life expectancy at birth was 4.5 years. 22% of females over two years old were simultaneously pregnant and lactating and twins occurred in 39% of pregnancies. Corresponding figures in females under two years old were 1.4% and 2.0% respectively. Mortality of kids between birth and six months was estimated to be between 34% and 57%. A minimum estimate of pre-natal mortality was 33%. Some females bred twice yearly in two ill-defined seasons with peaks probably in August and March. In the absence of predation, hunting or emigration the population appeared to be regulated by suppression of first year breeding, pre-natal mortality and high mortality of kids up to six months old.
24061513|The application of fensulfothion and parathion for the control of invertebrate pasture pests in Canterbury during March, April and May 1970 killed many birds and mammals. Two hundred and thirty-six dead birds were found after a single application of fensulfothion to 123.4 ha, and 158 birds were recovered from 78.5 ha of pasture treated with parathion. The main species killed were white-backed magpie (Gymnorhina tibicen), black-backed gull (Larus dominicanus) and harrier hawk (Circus approximans). Field trials of fensulfothion on 72.8 ha of pasture at Rotorua reduced the bird population using the treated areas by 86 percent within two days of treatment. Most deaths probably occurred through secondary poisoning, although the possibility of primary poisoning through contact or the ingestion of the insecticide granules cannot be discounted.
24061392|This paper describes part of a study of vegetation/soil system dynamics in which close relationships were demonstrated between structural change of the forest, with associated changes in composition, and changes in organic matter and soil physical properties, particularly the quantities of water and air in non-capillary pores. Because of these results an analysis was made of the quantities of water and air in the same soils under field conditions to test their correspondence with the vegetation pattern and known physical properties.
24061508|A population of hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus L.) in pasture land in Canterbury was found to vary between less than four and eight per hectare. Feeding habits were studied through stomach contents and analysis of faeces. Grass grub beetles (Costelytra zra;amdoca) and porina moths (Wiseana cervinta), both important pasture pests, were relatively important food items. Estimates of the number of grass grubs eaten in relation to their density and that of hedgehogs in pastures show that hedgehogs are potentially capable of consuming 10-40 percent of adult populations.
24061507|Results of a survey of the present distribution of the brown tree frog (Litoria ewingi) in the Manawatu and Rangitikei region of the North Island of New Zealand show that it has spread considerably in the quarter-century since its introduction. A previously undocumented liberation is described and some information on the habits and habitats of the frog, based on observations in the Foxton area, is presented.
24064253|Members of the sub-order Charadrii are the only birds to winter regularly in New Zealand. They prefer to live on inter-tidal mudflats where, particularly during late summer, they mix with New Zealand's endemic species. Some migratory species show a preference for feeding and roosting with endemic species. Distribution throughout the country is irregular. Some 160 000 northern hemisphere breeding Charadrii are present and this number appears to be increasing. Approximately 95% of this total is made up of two species. Some 40 species have been recorded.
24061400|A new index for contagion based on Taylor's Power Law is proposed. It is defined by D = 4/ arctan [log (variance)/log (mean)]1. A method of calculating confidence limits for this index and the coefficient of dispersion is given.
24061298|The low level of plant nutrients in exposed high-altitude subsoils, and the effects of soil frost and needle ice on plants attempting to colonise these subsoils combine to make natural revegetation very difficult. Artificial revegetation trials established in 1965 at three sites in the Canterbury mountains tested the effect of a fertiliser mixture which supplied a wide range of nutrients, and compared ten herbaceous species as providers of an initial protective cover, and of a cover that would persist. Fertiliser proved essential to survival of sown species, and Yorkshire fog showed greatest ability to provide quick ground cover. In the absence of further fertiliser over five seasons browntop and Chewings fescue provided the most persistent cover. Several species sown in the trials reseeded, and browntop, Yorkshire fog and white clover showed most ability in re-establishing as volunteers. There were few volunteer native species.
43746788|The high-mountain vegetation pattern of the North Island was briefly discussed with the aid of a vegetation map and a number of slides. High-mountain vegetation, which includes the vegetation of the cold temperate and subpolar (subalpine and alpine) zones, covers some 3,000 square miles (7%) of the North Island. Only 250 square miles of this (0.6% of the North Island) is in the subpolar zone and permanent snow occurs only on Mt. Ruapehu. The lower limit varies from about 3,000 ft. in the north down to 2,000 ft. near Wellington, with the subpolar zone commencing 2,000 ft. above that limit.
24064219|The post-glacial pollen sequence for inland regions of the eastern South Island is from grass and Coprosma  Dacrydium (probably D. bidwillii)  Phyllocladus (probably P. alpinus)  Podocarpus and Dacrycarpus  Nothofagus (solandri and/or fusca). If this is interpreted simply as a response to climatic warming, the position of Dacrydium is anomalous, as at present it does not often reach altitudes as high as Phyllocladus and Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides. Nor can its position be explained in terms of pedogenesis, for it is characteristic of overmature soils that are leached and often boggy. Dacrydium bidwillii stands are mostly situated on valley terraces subject to severe frost. This suggests (1) that this species is more tolerant of winter cold than either Phyllocladus alpinus or Nothofagus s. cliffortioides even though the latter reach the alpine tree limit, and (2) that early post-glacial times, as well as being generally cooler than now, may also have been characterised by severe temperature inversions. To test these hypotheses, twigs of the three species were collected from mature plants throughout one year, and subjected to artificial freezing. Temperatures were dropped gradually, and samples removed at intervals of 1-4C. Species were consistently in the following order of increasing resistance to freezing damage: Nothofagus collected at 800 m, Nothofagus at 1200 m, Phyllocladus at 1200 m, Dacrydium at 700 m, although the hardiness of each species varies according to season. These results are in good agreement with patterns of damage in the field although, in Nothofagus at least, natural damage during winter is manifested as "frost desiccation". Experimental results are also consistent with present ecology and relative abundance in the pollen record.
24061433|A modification of Heinicke's method for measuring light by the photo-decomposition of uranium salts is described. Partially masked glass tubes of uranyl nitrate/cxalic acid solution are exposed to light for several days and the decomposition, shown to be linearly dependent on the amount of light received, is found by titration. Tests in artificial light and natural forest show that the method is applicable to a wide range of light intensities. It is simple and cheap enough for extensive use in ecological investigations.
24061300|The population structure of red beech (Nothofagus fusca) is described for four forest stands situated at different altitudes on Mount Colenso. Data on red beech seedling densities and frequency distributions of living and dead tree diameters (d.b.h.) are presented. Red beech seedlings are shown to be more numerous, and on average larger, on decaying red beech logs than elsewhere. This seedling site preference could lead to a 'regeneration cycle', and explain the 'regeneration gaps' and bimodal d.b.h. frequency distributions commonly found in red beech forest in the Ruahine ranges. A comparison of the population structure in the four stands suggests that the red beech population may be undergoing a slow downhill migration. However, the apparent scarcity of saplings at higher altitudes does not necessarily imply a declining population in that area; it may be due to the long-term cyclic nature of population replacement following a catastrophe. Past browsing by deer and periodic mast production are thought to have had little effect on the population structure of red beech trees on Mount Colenso.
24061426|Bushfires are common in Australia. They cause much damage and considerable loss annually. However, some use could be made of these wildfires for forest mapping if developments in colour and false-colour (colour infrared) aerial photography were more fully exploited. The advantages that colour and false-colour aerial photography have over panchromatic minus-blue aerial photography are analyzed for the Australian forest environment. A technique is described, using colour or colour infrared aerial film, either separately or together for multispectral analysis, that could improve the accurate mapping of Australian sclerophyll Eucalyptus forests (after fire) and provide valuable information on the effect of fire on forest ecology. This technique involves sequential aerial photography to record the very distinctive regeneration patterns that follow bushfires. This technique should have wide application for forest studies and for much forest mapping, both within and beyond Australia.
24064208|Estuaries are vulnerable, unstable areas sensitive to the impact of man, because they are at the interface of two contrasting environments in which the results of environmental changes induced by man are focused. This study presents data on the extent, character, status and on the number of surveys of New Zealands estuaries. The widest possible interpretation of the term estuary has been used so as to produce the most comprehensive list. Detailed study of topographic maps and information from questionnaires indicate that there are 301 estuaries widely distributed around the coast with an average of 1 per 32 km of coastline. Some data on the status of 54% of these is available. These estuaries range in size from a few ha to over 15 000 ha but over ninety percent are less than 1700 ha, and 68% are less than 500 ha in area. Most estuaries are associated with human population concentrations of less than 500 persons. Overall there is approximately 0.03 ha of estuarine area per person. Bar-built and lagoonal estuaries predominate in both the North and South Islands. Questionnaire results suggest that the water of most estuaries is well-mixed and clean or slightly polluted. Significantly more North Island estuaries are seriously polluted. The status of more than two-thirds of the estuaries has remained unchanged over the last 10 years. The balance among those which have changed is towards an overall deterioration and this has been more pronounced in the South Island. Research and surveys of estuaries are not very well developed and only 19% have been the subject of one or more reports. Very few have received satisfactory, detailed, simultaneous study of both their physical and biological characteristics over any length of time. In view of the many uses to which they are put, the frequent proximity of urban population concentrations, and the channelling of the effects of many different, widely dispersed human activities through them, estuaries should be the subject of a great deal more research. The use of systems modelling techniques as an aid to research and management is advocated.
24061415|The Cockayne plots were sown in 1920 near Cromwell, Central Otago, on depleted country in a 15-inch rainfall zone. The initial growth of the sown species in the 13 enclosures showed that productive herbage species could be established, if not grazed. Pine and eucalypt species were also successfully grown. The plots were opened to grazing in the 1930s, following which there was a change in plant composition from palatable to unpalatable species. Since the control of the rabbit in the early 1950s and the closing of the plots to grazing there has been a marked regeneration from the original trees. These changes are discussed in relation to the agricultural development of the region and the Central Otago landscape.
24064212|The influence of water movement on sponge population structure was investigated in the marine sponge Ancorina corticata (Carter) from Westernport Bay, Victoria, Australia. Population characteristics studied were dispersion, population density, biomass and size-frequency distributions. Strong continuous water movement facilitated the growth of the sponge but no effects were found on the dispersion patterns of the population.
24061296|Increased atmospheric carbon dioxide content was concluded to have had an ambiguous climatic influence and may be less important than sometimes considered. Several studies have suggested increased turbidity has produced a recent global cooling trend. An examination of some climatic effects of volcanic eruption was made in relation to the prediction that the effect of 500 supersonic transport aircraft would be comparable over the North Atlantic to the amount of stratospheric injection from the 1963 Mount Agung eruption. World glacial advance over the past three centuries was shown to be synchronous with volcanic eruption (p <0.01) and with poor harvests (p <0.001) and lower world temperatures were significantly related to volcanism (p <0.01). These relationships support the results of a previous study and suggest that the effects of 500 supersonic transport aircraft may lead to reduced surface temperatures and possibly an intensification of alpine glaciation.
24061416|Although a cover of grasses and legumes may be established on exposed mountain subsoils through seeding and the use of a complete fertiliser, this cover is not likely to last for more than a few years without the application of more fertiliser. Native tussock species once established in the protection of other low-growing species might persist and provide stability over a longer period. This paper describes the early results achieved on two sites in the Canterbury mountains, through sowing seed of four tussock species under five cover treatments. Sowing of seed of Notodanthonia setifolia produced very few seedlings but blue tussock, hard tussock and silver tussock gave reasonable results. Highest emergence was recorded under the least cover on the control plots, and there was, in general, an inverse relationship between cover treatment density and emergence of tussock seedlings. Survival of tussock seedlings over the first eighteen months from sowing was, however, in direct positive proportion to the amount of cover present. Growth of tussock seedlings was slow at both trial sites. Tiller numbers tended to be greatest in plots with least competition from cover species. Tussocks remaining amongst cover after the first winter tended to decrease in size and vigour over the second growing season.
24064210|A summary of the main field methods of research used in a sedimentological study of part of Tauranga Harbour is presented. The research concentrated on the tidal inlet which is the entrance to the Port of Tauranga. SCUBA divers have carried out direct observations of the sea bed and installed various monitoring devices. Sediment sampling programmes posed problems which were largely overcome by using a dredge-type sampler. Tidal currents in the boundary layer were measured one metre above the harbour floor at a number of monitoring stations. Direct measurements of sediment discharge have been made with various devices which trap mobile sediment. Studies of tidal bedforms of both ripple and megaripple scale have been carried out. These investigations have provided a picture of sediment transport processes and patterns near the entrance to the Port of Tauranga.
24061393|The rhizomatous species Coriaria sarmentosa and C. angustissima bear coralloid clusters of root nodules which actively fix atmospheric nitrogen. Using rooted cuttings, comparative measurements were made of growth, net photosynthesis, dark respiration and nitrogen fixation in the two species. In both, the optimum temperatures for growth and net photosynthesis are 16-18C. Over a range of temperature and light intensity C. sarmentosa possesses a higher rate of net photosynthesis than its more diminuitive sister species C. angustissima. When grown in soil collected beneath rhizomatous Coriaria in the field, nodulated C. sarmentosa responded significantly to sulphur and phosphorus when added together. The acetylene reduction method was used to measure rates of nitrogen fixation in excised modules of both species in various environmental conditions. Nitrogenase activity appears most vigorous in C. sarmentosa nodules at temperatures approaching 22C. Rates of acetylene reduction appear to be similar in both species but vary according to clone and pre-treatment temperature. Nodule efficiency is higher in young nodules than in old and compares favourably with those reported for other nodulated nitrogen fixers. These results tend to confirm some of our earlier assumptions about the ecology of these successional species. Though considered as weeds on grazing land they may have a place in planting programmes for erosion control in wet scree country.
24061424|The forests and scrublands of the Taramakau catchment can be divided into six sub-climax associations and two seral associations. The sub-climax associations are subalpine scrub, bushline, rata-totara, red beech, silver beech and mountain beech forest. Except for silver beech forest and mountain beech forest, which are largely restricted to the Otehake tributary, site differentiation between these associations is generally altitudinal. These sub-climax associations appear to be regenerating satisfactorily except, perhaps, for red beech forest where there is a slight regeneration gap. The two seral associations, kamahi forest and short scrub-hardwood forest, generally occur on unstable soils. Both show marked regeneration gaps which can be related to the presence of terrestrial browsing mammals. These two associations comprise over half the forest in the upper Taramakau and lower north Taramakau, and consequently the condition of these two areas must be regarded as critical.
24064244|New Zealand appears to be the only country where spineless, small-leaved divaricating plants make up nearly 10% of the woody flora. Climatic explanations have been advanced to account for the origin of these divaricating plants. We suggest that the divergent and interlaced branching, the woody exterior and the tough stems of these plants are adaptations evolved in response to browsing by moas. Together with a few species of much smaller birds, moas were the only browsing vertebrates in New Zealand prior to the arrival of man. The divaricate habit is probably only one of several strategies evolved by plants in response to moa browsing. However, because moas fed in a different way from mammals there is little to support the idea that introduced browsing mammals have merely replaced moas as an ecological factor in New Zealand.
24061515|Path analysis is a statistical method akin to multiple regression in fitting a quantitative linear relationship between variables. It has the further advantages of handling simultaneously complex multistage interactions. Examples are given of its use in determining relationship where there are few variables, many variables, curvilinear relations, feedback interactions, and where a pricri quantitative information is available from other sources. The technique is also discussed in terms of the general problem of synthesis of ecological data. It is concluded that the basic concepts of cause and effect among groups of variables and their combination in a multistage causal scheme are applicable in all situations, while the curve fitting properties of the technique and the ability to combine a priori quantitative data from several sources, provide a valuable means of synthesis at the empirical stage of a problem.
24064216|The habitat use and movements of a population of Australian, brush-tailed opossums, Trichosurus vulpecula (Kerr), were studied by live-trapping, spotlighting and radio-telemetry in a mixed pasture, bush and scrub habitat on Banks Peninsula, New Zealand. Resident opossums had distinct ranges that for some animals varied in position and size and, for all, varied in intensity of use of habitat types during the year. Seasonal foods and breeding behaviour were reasons for shifts in ranges and changes in their sizes. Range sizes seemed to be dependent mainly on the location of the animals' requirements rather than behaviour intrinsic to the opossums themselves. Apples and walnuts were highly favoured foods in autumn and attracted resident animals from up to 1600 m away. Pasture was little used by the population. Habitat use results are compared with previous food analysis studies and discussed in relation to the design of opossum control programmes.
24061292|For many years New Zealanders had unrestricted use of large stretches of seashore and can be forgiven if they laboured under a myth of super-abundance. More recently it has become increasingly apparent that there is not an endless supply of coastal land nor are the undeveloped areas necessarily to remain open to the public. These changes are discussed along with the remedial action taken and the difficulties encountered.
24061394|This is a preliminary account of the wetlands near Lakes Manapouri and Te Anau, New Zealand. It discusses briefly the vegetational history of the area and describes the general nature and vegetation of certain of the mires.
24064279|A formula is proposed for calculating the probable limit of error (PLE) of the density estimate which is obtained from measurements of distance from sample points to the nearest member, its nearest neighbour, and its nearest neighbour. It takes the form: PLE = tD/N, (where t is Student's t,  is a measure of non-randomness, D is the estimate of density, and N is the number of sample points) and is considered to be analogous to the usual bounded plot sampling error formula tS/N for the specific case where density averages one per plot. Using Student's t for the 95 percent level of probability, 90 percent of the density estimates, drawn from 40 computer-simulated populations were within the ranges given by the proposed formula. Similarly, 92 percent of 36 estimates obtained from 11 paper-dot populations and 76 percent of 93 estimates obtained from 25 natural populations were within the proposed PLE. In some of the remaining cases, the extent by which the proposed PLE's were less than the calculated difference between true density and D were quite trivial. Some anomalies probably arose from sampling difficulties.
24064246|Based on a single observation some evidence is presented suggesting that predation of Hamilton's frog by tuatara is occurring on Stephens Island, 40 40' S, 174 00' E in Cook Strait. Bones of the left hind limb of a frog were identified from a tuatara dropping collected from the frogs' habitat. Because of the tenuous state of the island's frog population, factors thought to limit the incidence of predation and the distribution of the frog are discussed. A future management proposal is outlined.
24064221|Times necessary for development of ripe seed in some species of Hebe are reported together with the results of experiments investigating the effects of light and temperature on germination and the duration and periodicity of viability of seeds.
24061506|The seasonal diet of ship rats in a stand of lowland podocarp-rata-broadleaf forest in North Island, New Zealand, was studied from analysis of 173 stomachs, 46 fresh droppings and 10 feeding trials. Arthropods, particularly tree wetas (Order Orthoptera), were the main foods in spring and summer, while drupes, berries and nuts predominated in autumn and winter. Birds were not an important food. Seasonal variations in the diet were related to the seasonal abundance of these foods in the forest.
24061429|From eight trials made during 196769 a technique was developed for estimating the reduction, by poisoning, of opossums (Trichosurus vulpecula) from the extent of interference with non-toxic flour-paste baits. The model assumes that opossums do not, through experience and learning, search for other baits close by. The trial data showed that contagion, an increase in levels of bait interference from night to night and very high acceptance levels were a consequence of baits having been preferentially placed on open ridges and spaced too closely. Manipulation of baits on randomly-located lines showed that if baits were spaced 40 yards apart and lines were at least 200 yards apart there was little evidence of contagion. Procedures are given for using interference levels from poisoned areas and untreated control areas to estimate kills.
24061427|The point-centred quarter method of plotless sampling produces exaggerated values for mean basal area when used in most New Zealand forest types. The error appears to be related to the rather wide range of size classes present in most forest stands and probably arises from the tendency for large trees to be over-represented in samples.
24064243|Several analytical techniques used on both conventional colour photographs from SKYLAB and the LANDSAT MSS data in both photographic and magnetic digital tape formatsprovide useful sources of information about regional and seasonal patterns of stream sediment discharges along New Zealand coasts. The large area synoptic views from space are superior to aircraft photomosaics. The green visible band (500-600nm) is the most useful for sediment studies. Band 7 (0.8 - 1.1 m) sharply defines land-water interfaces. Digital analysis of small sample areas provides additional quantitative information. Better information about patterns is of potential value in coastal geomorphology, coastal engineering applications, and in coastal ecology.
24061517|The outer islands (> 10km distant from the mainland) of Hauraki Gulf Maritime Park comprise less than 0.02% of the New Zealand land surface and, taken together, support the only remaining temperate lowland and coastal communities relatively unmodified by European man and his introduced mammals. Their value as wildlife sanctuaries and scientific reserves is unexcelled by any comparable area in a National Park. The inner islands of the Park hold an exceptional range of recreational opportunities and in some instances have high scientific value and potential for wildlife as well. It is recommended that precautions to prevent damage to this limited resource should be increased. New measures are needed to prevent further spread of the two species of European rats and other mammals. Regular control of some introduced plants, particularly boxthorn (Lycium ferocissimum), is needed. The number and size of parties visiting some small islands that are densely burrowed by petrels should be restricted. The penalty for oil spillages should be greatly increased and the public educated to remove their picnic rubbish from both the sea and the land of the Park. Patrolling of the outer islands against illegal landings should be increased and the present status of some islands changed to reconcile status with value and function. Additional reserves are needed on some islands as well as along the mainland coastline. Some research required to ensure wisest use of the islands and their surrounding waters is outlined and specific recommendations made for each island in the Park.
24061389|The effects of the 1969-70 drought were studied in two forest remnants near Palmerston North: Bledisloe Park and Keeble's Bush. Mortality occurred among more than 40 percent of the species of trees and shrubs examined. In Bledisloe Park, where mahoe, ngaio, titoki and tawa are the main components, the short-term effect of the drought is considered to be an increase in the cover of titoki and ngaio with reductions in mahoe and tawa. The forest of the terrace examined in Keeble's Bush consists of podocarp/tawa and podocarp/titoki stands and the short-term effect of the drought has been to reduce podocarp density and to favour an increase in the cover of titoki. In the long term, however, increased establishment of podocarps is possible. Keeble's Bush is a particularly valuable stand of lowland forest from a scientific point of view because of its position in a rainfall of 1000mm, near the climatic limit of rimu, and because it has escaped major modification.
24061503|This is a preliminary account of some basic waterfowl population studies being undertaken at Pukepuke Lagoon, the first such studies so far attempted in New Zealand. Attention has been focussed on the popular game species of duck; the introduced mallard (Anas platyrhynchos platyrhynchos), the native grey duck (Anas superciliosa superciliosa) and New Zealand shoveler (Anas rhynchotis variegata). Seasonal fluctuations in population density, sex-ratios, nesting season chronolgy and the influence of water levels cn hatching success are discussed.
24061356|Extensive trapping shows that the Polynesian rat (Rattus e. exulans (Peale)) is the only rodent present in the Tokelau Islands and that it is responsible for damage to coconuts. Green coconuts 525 cm. long are gnawed on the palms and subsequently fall to the ground and disintegrate. Damage was assessed by counting damaged and undamaged nuts in quadrats on various islets of the Nukunonu and Atafu atolls. The numbers of rats on these islets were assessed by using the capture-mark-recapture method. It was found that mature, untended and overgrown islets showed severe damage but had a low rat population. On the other hand, equally mature but relatively well-tended groves carried a much heavier rat population but showed no damage to coconuts.
24061514|An ecological study of the alkaline Copland River warm springs in the South Island of New Zealand was made in January 1972. Maximum water temperature was 57C and the upper limit of the dominant alga Mastigocladus laminosus was 50C. Other important species of blue-green algae present were Synechocystis minuscula and Oscillatoria terebriformis. Fifteen species of invertebrates were found between 26 and 38C including the thermophile Ephydrella thermarum, which is often abundant in North Island warm springs, and the common mosquito Culex pervigilans which previously had not been recorded breeding in thermal waters. Observations made on warm springs at four other South Island localities are also recorded.
24061492|Further reported sightings, some in new areas, are recorded and examined. Tentative conclusions as to the animal's ecology and revised theories as to its zoological classification and distribution throughout the island are suggested.
24064288|The quantitative composition of ground and epiphytic vegetation, consisting predominantly of bryophytes, is recorded from a lowland stand of climax beech-podocarp forest at Jacksons Bay, South Westland, together with briefer accounts from five pre-climax transitional stands. A survey of epiphylls, indicators of very high humidity, is included and comparisons are made with stands on Secretary Island and Stewart Island.
24061431|Evidence of the existence, in parts of the South Island, of a native otter-like mammal called by the Maoris the waitoreke is re-examined in the light of a theory that it could have been introduced by man. Its possible origin and zoological classification are discussed, and fields suggested for further research.
24061520|Forty computer-simulated populations were analysed to derive formulae for estimating density of populations from a set of distances from sample points to the nearest member, from that member to its neighbour and from that neighbour to its nearest neighbour. Distances may be truncated or unlimited. The formulae were applied to data from 11 paper-dot and 18 field populations in a total of 37 experiments. Fifty-nine percent of the corrected estimates were within 10 percent of "true density", 76 percent were within 20 percent, and 93 percent were within 30 percent. Most of the unacceptable estimates were attributable to sampling difficulties (particularly in paper dot populations) or sampling errors of the "true density" values. An index of non-randomness is an intrinsic part of the density estimating formula. This index is described, and values for the experimental data are given to illustrate the spectrum which can be expected in biological populations.
