2827326|Among the hypotheses advanced during the past 40 years to explain bird navigation, the hypothesis of olfactory navigation is currently the focus of attention. The mosaic-map model and the gradient-map model are two operationally different forms of this hypothesis. The necessary olfactory capacities on the part of the bird to discriminate subtle environmental odors qualitatively (mosaic map) or quantitatively (gradient map) have not yet been demonstrated. A number of experiments with homing pigeons (Columba livia), designed to test the olfactory hypotheses, are discussed. Some seemingly positive results have turned out to have non-olfactory causes (deflector aviary experiments). Other results are not in agreement with respective predictions (certain types of shielding), or are inconsistent or ambiguous (detours, multi-cur or selected-cue deprivation during transport, ventilation at the release site). Some unidentified airborne factor has been shown to have a partial role in homing. Olfactory navigation as hypothesized, however, has not been convincingly demonstrated. According to a recent analysis, meterological realities preclude navigation on the basis of olfactory gradients or mosaic maps. Since anosmic birds can home successfully, olfactory navigation, even if its existences is confirmed in some form, may not be the universal solution to the navigation problem.
2827325|The complex mechanisms of orientation and navigation in birds develop through the interaction of experience with the relevant stimuli and the underlying genetic substrate. Many migratory species show site fidelity, homing to previously occupied breeding and overwintering localities. The ability to do this requires experience at the site and involves a process like imprinting that seems to take place at least twice during a bird's first year of life. On the first migration, birds fly directions and distances that are apparently genetically programmed and are sufficient to bring them within the winter range of their population. Little else is known concerning the genetic basis of orientation behavior. The sun, stars, and earth's magnetic field provide compasses for migratory and homing orientation. The ontogeny of each sort of compass involves experience-dependent modification during at least the first few months of a bird's life. The sun compass is learned by observation of the sun's arc in concert with the bird's biological clock. There is some evidence that the magnetic field may also be involved in calibrating the sun compass of the homing pigeon. The star compass is established through visual observation of the axis of stellar rotation during the bird's first summer. The pole point is defined as north, but the biological basis of this rule is unknown. The sensory basis of the magnetic compass is also unknown, but it is subject to modification by visual cues, probably stars. In this article we discuss the varying degrees of plasticity in the ontogeny of these mechanisms within the evolutionary context of the spatial and temporal variability of the relevant orientation cues. There appears to be a trend in which information flows from more reliable to les reliable cue-systems during development. In addition to a compass, goal-directed orientation, or navigation, requires some means of assesing location relative to the goal. Homing pigeons apparently utilize sensory information acquired during the displacement journey in this context, but such input does not seem to be necessary. The ability to navigate using only those cues available at the release point is thought to be based on a map of some sort. The bases of this map remain controversial: current investigations are focused on odors and magnetic gradients, but these are not mutually exclusive possibilities, nor are they the only ones. In both of the above cases, there is evidence of experiential effects, and we believe that an ontogenetic approach may elucidate the essentials of these mechanisms. Studies of the ontogeny of bird navigation are also likely reveal important things about the development of behavior in general.
2829455|Laboratory and field studies on about 100 species in sixteen families indicate that several factors can influence offspring sex ratios (males: females) in parasitoid wasps. For many species, the offspring sex ratio increases with one or more of the following: (1) maternal age at ovipositing or number of days since insemination; (2) the age of the male parent or the number of times he has copulated; (3) extreme temperature; (4) decreasing host size, age, or quality; (5) female wasp density; and (6) the number of progeny per host. Other factors which have been shown to affect offspring sex ratios in some species include (1) number of hours since insemination; (2) genetic factors; (3) maternal size; (4) maternal die; (5) polyembryony; (6) photoperiod and relative humidity; (7) hos sex; and (8) host density. These factors may affect offspring sex ratios through females manipulating fertilization of their eggs or through other mechanisms, such as differential mortality or changes in sperm availability. Theoretical development ahs focused primarily on females manipulating their offspring sex ratios in response to host size or female density or both. Host-size models predict a negative relationship between offspring sex ratio and host size. These models assume that host size has a greater effect on the reproductive success of females than of males. Local mate competition (LMC) models predict a positive relationship between offspring sex ratio and female density. A major assumption of these models is that males mate primarily in their natal area. For each model, most ofthe species examined meet the model's general prediction, but models have been rigorously tested for only a few species. Such testing requires supporting data on the assumptions made and examination of alternative explanations, particularly sex-ratio differences that are due to differential mortality.
2829456|Proper hypothesis testing is the subject of much debate in ecology. According to studies in cognitive psychology, confirmation bias (a tendency to seek confirming evidence) and theory tenacity (persistent belief in a theory in spite of contrary evidence) pervasively influence actual problem solving and hypothesis testing, often interfering with effective testing of alternative hypotheses. On the other hand, these psychological factors play a positive role in the process of theory maturation by helping to protect and nurture a new idea until it is suitable for critical. As a theory matures it increases in empirical content and its predictions become more distinct. Efficient hypothesis testing is often not possible when theories are in an immature state, as is the case in much of ecology. Problem areas in ecology are examined in light of these consideations, including failure to publish negative results, misuses of mathematical models, confusion resulting from ambiguous terms (such as "diversity" and "niche"), and biases against new ideas.
2829217|Although the eugenics movement in the United States flourished during the first quarter of the 20th Century, its roots lie in concerns over the cost of caring for "defective" persons, concerns that first became manifest in the 19th Century. The history of state-supported programs of involuntary sterilization indicates that this "surgical solution" persisted until the 1950s. A review of the archives of prominent eugenicists, the records of eugenic organizations, important legal cases, and state reports indicates that public support for the involuntary sterilization of insane and retarded persons was broad and sustained. During the early 1930s there was a dramatic increase in the number of sterilizations performed upon mildly retarded young women. This change in policy was a product of the Depression. Institutional officials were concerned that such women might bear children for whom they could not provide adequate parental care, and thus would put more demands on strained social services. There is little evidence to suggest that the excesses of the Nazi sterilization program (initiated in 1934) altered American programs. Data are presented here to show that a number of state-supported eugenic sterilization programs were quite active long after scientists had refuted the eugenic thesis.
2829216|Thermal noise limits the efficiency of all information-handling systems. This principle, which is a routine consideration in electronics, is just as fundamental to the handling of highly specific information by living organisms. The rapid basal turnover rates of cells and intracellular proteins and the high energy consumption of regulatory organs, previously unaccounted for, can be explained to a large extent by the need to compensate for the steady loss of essential information due to thermal noise.
2828975|Roots, bulbs, corms, and other below-ground organs are almost universally present in communities containing vascular plants. A large and taxonomically diverse group of herbivores uses these below-ground plant parts as its sole or primary source of food. Important within this group are plant-parasitic nematodes and several fossorial taxa that affect plants through their soil-disturbing activities as well as by consuming plant tissue. The fossorial taxa are probably best exemplified by fossorial rodents, which are distributed on all continents except Australia. All other fossorial herbivores are insects. The impact of below-groud herbivory on individual plant fitness will depend upon the extent to which, and under what circumstances, the consumption of plant tissue disrupts one or more of the six functions of below-ground plant parts. Below-ground herbivory is probably more often chronic than acute. Indirect evidence suggests that plants have responded evolutionarily to herbivory by enhancing the functional capacities of below-ground organs, thus developing a degree of tolerance, and by producing compounds that serve as feeding deterrents. Many plant species respond to the removal of root tissues by increasing the growth rate of the remaining roots and initiating new roots. Soil movement and mixing by fossorial rodents infleuce the environment of other below-ground herbivores as well as that of plants and plant propagules. The relationships among the various groups of below-ground herbivores, and between below-ground herbivores and plants, are at best poorly known, yet they appear to have major roles in determining the structure and regulating the functioning of natural communities.
2828974|Deposit-feeding animals acquire food by swallowing large volumes of sediment. Possible food sources include organic debris and sediment-associated microbes. The relative importance of these classes of food is currelty an area of active research. The idea that microbes attached to sediment and detritus particles constitute the major food source for deposit feeders is being replaced by more complex models that incorporate interactions between animals and the food sources in the sedimentary matrix. Many deposit feeders appear to require both microbial and detrital foods. Deposit feeders display many adaptations appear to be cosistent with the energy maximization principle of optimal foraging theory, but rigorous testing of foraging models has proven to be difficult. Elucidation of deposit-feeding strategies may develop as optimal foraging theory is integrated with physiological energetics.
2831684|Identification of the most significant contributions, or classics, in the literature of a scientific discipline is difficult. Recent computer-based citation statistics make it possible to identify frequently cited articles published from 1947 to 1977 and designated "citation classics" between 1977 and 1986. These are reviewed to determine what may be learned about authors, institutions, journals publishing frequently cited ecological articles, and about the taxa, habitats and ecological topics represented in them. A comparison is made with other sources that identify articles of unusual interest. The "citation classics" identified as ecological do not provide a clear guide to all aspects of ecology, nor to all leading ecologists in the three decades covered. Nevertheless, they do identify a broad compass of recent concerns of ecologists and of notable contributors to ecology. Published reminiscences of authors concerning these publications also provide insights into motivations, stimuli, and problems in their research none of which appear in the scientific publications themselves.
2831683|As is the case for some other RNA viruses, the amino acid sequences of retroviral proteins change at an astonishing rate. For example, the proteases of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the visna lentivirus with which it is often compared are as different as the proteases of fungi and mammals, and those of the human type I leukemia virus are as different from HIV or visna as are the proteins of humans and bacteria. That the sequences of retrovirus proteins can be recognized as sharing common ancestry with non-retroviral proteins implies that the vastly accelerated change has begun only recently or occurs very sporadically. Only a scheme whereby exogenous retroviruses exist as short-lived bursts upon a backdrop of germline-encoded endogenous viruses is consistent with the sequence data. Retroviruses are related to many other reverse transcriptase-bearing entities present in the genomes of eukaryotes. They also have proteins that are homologous with those of some plant and animal DNA viruses, and their reverse transcriptase is recognizably similar to sequences found in the introns of some fungal mitochondria. Computer alignment of all these sequences allows an overall phylogeny to be constructed that chronicles the history of events leading to infectious retroviruses.
2830102|Hypotheses that relate disturbance to the production and maintenance of species diversity are reviewed. The hypotheses have been classified traditionally by the effect of the disturbance on the community: Those that involve selective mortality, which maintains the species diversity of a community in equilibrium, and those that invoke causing random, localized, mass mortality, which prevent the community from reaching and equilibrium. Regardless of this difference, most hypotheses predict that the greatest number of species will occur at intermediate leves of disturbance. We develop graphical models for equilibrium and nonequilibrium situations, which we show to differ only in respect to temporal and spatial scale. We maintain that the usual outcome-the greatest number of species at intermediate levels of disturbance-can be explained by assuming that there are trade-offs in species-specific abilities that place constraints on immigration to, and extinction in, patches. Changes in immigration and extinction, the process that govern patch diversity, depend on species-specific abilities to fend off competitors or to endure disturbances. Members of a species can resist competitors or resist disturbance, but they cannot excel at both. If this trade-off does not exist, then the highest level of species diversity will not occur at intermediate levels of disturbance. Furthermore, we show that if this assumption is relaxed or if interactions between the frequency and magnitude of disturbances are considered, other unexpected outcomes are posible.
2830103|Can sexual dimorphism evolve because of ecological differences between the sexes? Although several examples of this phenomenon are well known from studies on birds, the idea has often been dismissed as lacking general applicability. This dismissal does not stem from contradictory data so much as from the difficulties inherent in testing the hypothesis, and its apparent lack of parsimony, in comparison to the alternative explanation of sexual selection. The only unequivocal evidence for the evolution of sexual dimorphism through intersexual niche partitioning would be disproportionate dimorphism in trophic structures (e.g., mouthparts). This criterion offers a minimum estimate of the importance of ecological causes for dimorphism, because it may fail to identify most cases. A review of published literature reveals examples of sexually dimorphic trophic structures in most animal phyla. Many of these examples seem to be attributable to sexual selection, but others reflect adaptations for niche divergence between the sexes. For example, dwarf non-feeding males without functional mouthparts have evolved independently in many taxa. In other cases, males and females differ in trophic structures apparently because of differences in diets. Such divergence may often reflect specific nutritional requirements for reproduction in females, or extreme (sexually selected?) differences between males and females in habitats or body sizes. Ecological competition between the sexes may be responsible for intersexual niche divergence in some cases, but the independent evolution of foraging specializations by each sex may be of more general importance. If ecological causation for dimorphism can be demonstrated in so many cases, despite the inadequacies of the available criteria, the degree of sexual size dimorphism in many other animal species may well also have been influenced by ecological factors. Hence, it may be premature of dismiss this hypothesis, despite the difficulty of testing it.
2830526|Among the many hypotheses proposed to account for the unparalleled diversification of the Insecta, attributes of the egg stage have been largerly overlooked. Comparison with the Parainsecta (Collembola, Protura) suggests that the ovipositor, amnion and complex chorion are novel features acquired early in the evolution of the insects. We propose that insect diversity is at least partially a consequence of this suite of egg-stage characters which reduced constraints on suitable sites for egg deposition, and enabled insect lineages to diversify into previously inaccessible niches. In addition, the self-sufficient insect, egg, resistant to osmotic rupture, desiccation, and drowning, may explain the low incidence of postzygotic parental investment among insects relative to other terrestrial arthropods. In this paper, we review the unique structural and functional properties of insect eggs, and argue that ovoviviparity, viviparity and parental egg care may be have inhibited the evolution of such eggs in other terrestrial arthropod taxa. A preliminary evaluation of the hypothesis is presented, using the cladistic method of sister-group comparison. Sister taxa share a common history prior to divergence and thus provide some control for factors other than those under investigation. Contrasts within the insects suggest a historical association between diversification and expansion in type or range of habitats utilized for oviposition and larval development. An analogous relationship between diversification and methods of embryo protecion seems evident in the Arachnida. Although these general patterns are consistent with our hypothesis, far more information on terrestrial arthropod phylogenetic relationships and oviposition-related characters is required before a rigorous test of the theory is possible. Finally, we consider the relationship between egg-stage characters and other attributes implicated in terrestrial anthropod diversification. We suggest that insects would been unable to exploit the potential of holometaboly and flight without the capacity to ensure egg survival in the wide range of oviposition substrates provided by terrestrial environments.
2830524|Following introductory comments expressing doubts about the validity of genetic load and Haldane's "cost of natural selection," the role of selection (expressed as the average number of adult daughters per female) on gene frequencies in populations has been partitioned into population and time arenas. The population arena (a geometric plane) deals with the fitnesses of different genotypes under the many situations encountered by individual members of the population in a single generation; average fitnesses of carriers of various genotypes are obtained by calculating across these many situations. The population arena includes the point signifying that, on the average, each mother leaves one daughter as her replacement within the population. It is the plane within which evolutionarily significant norms of reaction exist. The time arena is also (geometric) plane, one that is composed of the edge-on limit (average fitness) of each successive population arena. It does not include the effects of individual situations on relative fitnesses within each population arena; it encompasses only the temporal sequence of average relative fitnesses. Amino acid substitutions in proteins and base-pair substitutions in DNA are events of concerns in the time arena; within the population arena, however, gene action (not merely gene structure) is a matter of considerable concern. Thus, the discussions of the 1950s and 1960s regarding genetic variation wich were reasonable within the population arena seem less so within the time arena where structural, rather than functional, variation is stressed. The function-structure dichotomy is entangled with the neutralist-selectionist controversy.
2831093|DNA hybridization is a "distance method" for phylogenetic reconstruction and, as such, shares a set of assumptions, advantages, and problems with other techniques that do not directly employ character data. The technique purports to measure the average percent mismatch of homologous nucleotide sequences between the single-copy genomes of species. This measurement, as any other, is subject to considerations of accuracy and precision. While replicate measurements and technical modifications can improve precision, the accuracy of such measurements is limited by the equivalence of genomes under comparison. Such routine events in genome evolution as gene duplication and deletion may complicate the interpretation of DNA hybridization distances. Beyond measurement limitations, the most serious potential distortions of distances are due to biased sequence sampling and homoplasy. These problems, however, do not necessarily preclude phylogenetic reconstruction, and their effects may be mittigated by numerical corrections. Homoplasy, in particular, is a difficulty faced by all methods of phylogenetic inference. If such distortions can be eliminated, mitigated by correction, or shown to be trivial, pairwise tree-construction strategies should provide reliable estimates of phylogeny.
2831092|Cells of plants, most microorganisms, and animals require well-defined amounts of iron for survival, replication, and differentiation. The metal is an important component of such processes as synthesis of DNA, RNA, and chlorophyll; electron transport; oxygen metabolism; and nitrogen fixation. Because of the insolubility of iron in aerobic environments at neutral and alkaline pH values, cells have had to divise specific strategies to assimilate the metal. These include (1) development of systems for reducing ferric ions to the more soluble ferrous ions at the cell surface, (2) employment of small carrier molecules (termed siderophores) that have high affinity for ferric ions and receptor proteins for the ferrated molecules, and (3) use of transferrin and other proteins that can transport ferric ions. Excessive amounts of iron are toxic, however, and intracellular storage capacity is limited and efflux mechanisms generally are lacking. Thus, cells have had to develop methods of preventing over-accumulation of the metal. These include use of (1) oxygen to convert ferrous to ferric ions, (2) small molecules that can bind ferrous ions, termed siderophraxes, and (3) proteins that, when combined with ferrous ions, repress the expression of iron transport genes. Often, one organism can prevent growth of neighbors by restricing their access to iron. In other cases, cells assist each other by sharing iron acquisition systems or by restricting influx of excess iron. Homeostatic control of other essential trace metals also is required for optimal cell function. Nevertheless, since iron thus far has received most attention, it serves as the model of mineral metabolism. Moreover, many of the observations made on control of iron metabolism suggest possible applications in prevention and management of plant and animal infections as well as of neoplastic diseases, arthropathy, and cardiomyopathy. This review will focus on (1) problems at the cellular level of iron acquisition, storage, and exclusion; and (2) the strategies devised by cells of plants, microorganisms, and animals to solve these problems.
QRB3838|Niche construction theory (NCT) explicitly recognizes environmental modification by organisms (niche construction) and their legacy over time (ecological inheritance) to be evolutionary processes in their own right. Here we illustrate how niche construction theory provides useful conceptual tools and theoretical insights for integrating ecosystem ecology and evolutionary theory. We begin by briefly describing NCT, and illustrating how it differs from conventional evolutionary approaches. We then distinguish between two aspects of niche constructionenvironment alteration and subsequent evolution in response to constructed environmentsequating the first of these with ecosystem engineering. We describe some of the ecological and evolutionary impacts on ecosystems of niche construction, ecosystem engineering, and ecological inheritance, and illustrate how these processes trigger ecological and evolutionary feedbacks and leave detectable ecological signatures that are open to investigation. Finally, we provide a practical guide to how NCT could be deployed by ecologists and evolutionary biologists to explore eco-evolutionary dynamics. We suggest that, by highlighting the ecological and evolutionary ramifications of changes that organisms bring about in ecosystems, NCT helps link ecosystem ecology to evolutionary biology, potentially leading to a deeper understanding of how ecosystems change over time.
QRB4146|Mimicrywhen one organism (the mimic) evolves a phenotypic resemblance to another (the model) due to selective benefitsis widely used to illustrate natural selection's power to generate adaptations. However, many putative mimics resemble their models imprecisely, and such imperfect mimicry represents a specific challenge to mimicry theory and a general one to evolutionary theory. Here, we discuss 11 nonmutually exclusive hypotheses for imperfect mimicry. We group these hypotheses according to whether imperfect mimicry reflects: an artifact of human perception, which is not shared by any naturally occurring predators and therefore is not truly an instance of imperfect mimicry; genetic, developmental, or time-lag constraints, which (temporarily) prevent a response to selection for perfect mimicry; relaxed selection, where imperfect mimicry is as adaptive as perfect mimicry; or tradeoffs, where imperfect mimicry is (locally) more adaptive than perfect mimicry. We find that the relaxed selection hypothesis has garnered the most support. However, because only a few study systems have thus far been comprehensively evaluated, the relative contributions of the various hypotheses toward explaining the evolution of imperfect mimicry remain unclear. Ultimately, clarifying why imperfect mimicry exists should provide critical insights into the limits of natural selection in producing complex adaptations.
QRB4138|How cooperation originates and persists in diverse species, from bacteria to multicellular organisms to human societies, is a major question in evolutionary biology. A large literature asks: what prevents selection for cheating within cooperative lineages? In mutualisms, or cooperative interactions between species, feedback between partners often aligns their fitness interests, such that cooperative symbionts receive more benefits from their hosts than uncooperative symbionts. But how do these feedbacks evolve? Cheaters might invade symbiont populations and select for hosts that preferentially reward or associate with cooperators (often termed sanctions or partner choice); hosts might adapt to variation in symbiont quality that does not amount to cheating (e.g., environmental variation); or conditional host responses might exist before cheaters do, making mutualisms stable from the outset. I review evidence from yucca-yucca moth, fig-fig wasp, and legume-rhizobium mutualisms, which are commonly cited as mutualisms stabilized by sanctions. Based on the empirical evidence, it is doubtful that cheaters select for host sanctions in these systems; cheaters are too uncommon. Recognizing that sanctions likely evolved for functions other than retaliation against cheaters offers many insights about mutualism coevolution, and about why mutualism evolves in only some lineages of potential hosts.
QRB3322|Microbial growth is a biological process that has been previously treated as a chemical reaction operating in accord with the Gibbs free energy equation, 
QRB3782|Progesterone and cholesterol are both vital to pregnancy. Among other functions, progesterone downregulates inflammatory responses, allowing for maternal immune tolerance of the fetal allograft. Cholesterol, a key component of cell membranes, is important in intracellular transport, cell signaling, nerve conduction, and metabolism. Despite the importance of each substance in pregnancy, one exercises an antagonistic effect on the other, as periods of peak progesterone correspond with reductions in cholesterol availability, a consequence of progesterone's negative effects on cholesterol biosynthesis. This arrangement is understandable in light of the threat posed by pathogens early in pregnancy. Progesterone-induced immunomodulation entails increased vulnerability to infection, an acute problem in the first trimester, when fetal development is highly susceptible to insult. Many pathogens rely on cholesterol for cell entry, egress, and replication. Progesterone's antagonistic effects on cholesterol thus partially compensate for the costs entailed by progesterone-induced immunomodulation. Among pathogens to which the host's vulnerability is increased by progesterone's effects, approximately 90% utilize cholesterol, and this is notably true of pathogens that pose a risk during pregnancy. In addition to having a number of possible clinical applications, our approach highlights the potential importance of second-order adaptations, themselves a consequence of the lack of teleology in evolutionary processes.
QRB3988|Here we discuss life-history evolution from the perspective of adaptive phenotypic plasticity, with a focus on polyphenisms for somatic maintenance and survival. Polyphenisms are adaptive discrete alternative phenotypes that develop in response to changes in the environment. We suggest that dauer larval diapause and its associated adult phenotypes in the nematode (
QRB4296|Robert FitzRoy, Captain of HMS
QRB3666|Within 20 years, experimental selection of quantified not too aggressive, not too fearful behavior to human approach was shown in silver foxes (
2828101|The initial radiation of the dinosaurs in the Triassic period (about 200 million years ago) has been generally regarded as a result of successful competition with the previously dominant mammal-like reptiles. A detailed review of major terrestrial reptile faunas of the Permo-Triassic, including estimates of relative abundance, gives a different picture of the pattern of faunal replacements. Dinosaurs only appeared as dominant faunal elements in the latest Triassic after the disappearance of several groups of mammal-like reptiles, thecondontians (ancestors of dinosaurs and other archosaurs), and rhynchosaurs (medium-sized herbivores). The concepts of differential survival ("competitive") and opportunistic ecological replacement of higher taxonomic categories are contrasted (the latter involves chance radiation to fill adaptive zones that are already empty), and they are applied to the fossil record. There is no evidence that either thecodontians or dinosaur demonstrated their superiority over mammal-like reptiles in massive competitive take-overs. Thecodontians arose as medium-sized carnivores after the extinction of certain mammal-like reptiles (opportunism, latest Permian). Throughout most of the Triassic, the thecodontians shared carnivore adaptive zones with advanced mammal-like reptiles (cynodonts) until the later became extinct (random processes, early to late Triassic). Among herbivores, the dicynodont mammal-like reptiles were largely replaced by diademodontoid mammal-like reptiles and rhynchosaurs (differential survival, middle to late Triassic). These groups then became extinct and dinosaurs replaced them and radiated rapidly (opportunism, latest Triassic). The late Triassic extinctions may be linked with floral and climatic changes. Explanations of dinosaur success based on the competitive superiority of their thermoregulation or locomotory capability are unnecessary in this model.
2828100|Vertebrate body organization differs from that of other chordates in a large number of derived features that involve all organ systems. Most of these features arise embryonically from epidermal placodes, neural crest, and a muscularized hypomere. The developmental modifications were associated with a shift from filter-feeding to more active predation, which established advantages for improved gas exchange and distribution. Active predation involved more efficient patterns of locomotion and led to a major reorganization of the pharynx, to elaboration of the circulatory, digestive, and nervous systems, and to special sense organs. Most of the organs that derive from epidermal placodes and neural crest may have arisen phylogenetically from the epidermal nerve plexus of earlier chordates. Supportive tissues such as cartilage, bone, dentine, and enamel-like tissues probably arose in association with several of the new vertebrate sense organs and only secondarily provided mechanical support. The development of armor appears to have occurred later in vertebrate evolution. Finally, the origin of a postotic skull and axial vertebrate appears to be associated with the origin of the gnathostomes.
2829325|The mathematical relations between basal energy metabolism, brain size, and life span in mammals have been investigated. The evolutionary level of brain development, or encephalization (c), is a function both of brain weight (E) and of body weight (P) according to c = E/P
2829326|Female mammals experience a very high and often unappreciated rate of reproductive failure. Among human pregnancies alone, over 50 per cent fail between conception and parturition, and the majority of these failures are unexplained. These findings present important problems for evolutionary theory as well as for health care practices. This paper addresses these high rates of reproductive failure among mammals, by extending the work of a number of evolutionary biologists regarding the reproductive consequences of environmental adversity. The basic model upon which we elaborate, termed the Reproductive Suppression Model, argues that females can optimize their lifetime reproductive success by suppressing reproduction when future conditions for the survival of offspring are likely to be sufficiently better than present ones as to exceed the costs of the suppression itself. These costs are a function of reproductive time lost and the direct phenotypic effects of the suppression itself. To evaluate the benefits and costs of suppression, the following types of cues should be assessed: the female's physical and mental health, her stage of reproduction, the physical and genetic status of her offspring, and the external conditions at the time of birth. We also examine various issues of social suppression, whereby the conditions for survival of offspring are a function of the reproduction and support of other group members. Under such conditions, some females may be able to improve current conditions for reproduction by suppressing the reproduction of others. Field data from our own work are presented, describing socially mediated reproductive competition among continuously breeding female yellow baboons and among female hoary marmots. Social suppression in other mammals is also evaluated, including that in human beings, and we conclude with some implications of the Reproductive Suppression Model for sexual selection theory regarding female-female reproductive competition, as well as human health care.
2828804|Rapid divergence and speciation can occur between populations with or without ecological differences under selection for success in intraspecific social competition-competition in which an individual must win in contests or comparisons with conspecific rivals in order to gain access to some resource, including (under sexual selection) mates. Sexual selection theory is extended to encompass social competition for resources other than mates. Characters used in social competition can undergo particularly rapid and divergent evolution owing to (1) their great importance in determining access to critical resources, (2) the absence of a limit to change (except by selection in other contexts), (3) the generation-to-generation relentlessness of selection on these traits. (4) the potential for mutually accelerating evolution of preference and attractiveness in contests involving "choice," and (5) the very large number of factors that can initiate trends, including mutation and drift leading to use of different physiological or behavioral characteristics as signals, the role of novelty per se in the evolution of combat and display, ecological or habitat differences influencing the form of combat and of signals, and (in species capable of learning) imitation of idiosyncratic characteristics of successful individuals. Many species-specific signals heretofore attributed to selection for species recognition ("isolating mechanisms") are probably instead products of social selection. This may help explain the rarity of reproductive character displacement and other phenomena predicted by the species recognition hypothesis. Examples from a wide variety of organisms illustrate patterns predicted by social selection theory, including (1) exaggeration and rapid divergence of traits (e.g., weapons, pheromones, plumage, flowers, and song) used in social competition, (2) a correlation between type of social system (intensity of social selection) and distinctiveness and exaggeration of social traits, (3) sexually monomorphic extreme development of socially selected traits when both sexes compete socially, (4) occurrence of distinctive signals in allopatric populations lacking sympatric congeners, and (5) more rapid divergence (less phylogenetic conservatism) of socially competitive compared to non-competitive signals. Rapid divergence under social selection may accelerate speciation due to effects on pre-mating interactions, as well as on critical social determinants of survival and reproductive success which would put hybrids at a disadvantage. Maintenance of parapatric boundaries (extensive contact with little or no geographic overlap) between socially selected species may sometimes be due to competitive exclusion in sympatry between populations whose primary divergence has been social rather than ecological. Patterns of variation in socially selected characters demonstrate the wisdom of Darwin's distinction between natural and sexual selection, and the applicability of sexual selection theory to social competition in general.
2828805|We argue that the evolution of order in living systems and certain nonliving physical systems obeys a common fundamental principle which we call the Darwinian dynamic. Such ordered systems deviate greatly from the thermodynamic equiprobability rule according to which, for example, all nucleotide sequences of comparable length should be found in roughly equal abundance. We formulate the Darwinian dynamic by first considering how macroscopic order is generated in a simple nonbiological system far from the thermodynamic equilibrium. We then extend our consideration to short, replicating RNA molecules, which we assume to be like the earliest forms of life, and show that the underlying order-generating process is basically similar. The equation we use as an example of the Darwinian dynamic for these simple replicators contains variables that express the basic conditions necessary for the process of natural selection as conceived by Darwin: variation of type, heritability, and competition for limited resources. By starting with such uncomplicated systems, we believe we have clarified the essential elements of natural selection. Specifically, we show that the fitness of an RNA replicator (its per capita rate of increase) is a function of adaptive capacities which are intrinsic (in the sense that they are determined by the nucleotide sequence) and of the availibility of resources. The three primary adaptive capacities are, we think, the capacity to replicate, the capacity to avoid decay, and the capacity to acquire and process resources. Competitive sucess among different replicators depends on the relative value of these adaptive capacities. We show for phage T4, the most complex organism for which nearly all gene functions are characterized, that its approximately 140 known genes fall naturally into the above three categories. Although the Darwinian dynamic can be expressed in simple mathematical form as it applies to such primitive life as self-replicating RNA or bacteria, its application to higher organisms requires a more complex treatment. We have indicated the main kinds of complexity that emerge, and how these can be taken into account, in consonance wich current treatments of natural selection in population genetics and evolutionary ecology. By defining the essential features of natural selection, we think we have additionally clarified two specific areas of prior confusion. These are the relationship of thermodynamics to evolution, and the empirical content of Darwin's theory.
2828645|Although many studies treat the causes and consequences of dispersal in mammalian populations, less attention has been given to the individuals that do not leave their birthplaces. Yet natal philopatry, which we define as continued residence on the natal home range past the age of independence from the parents, occurs in virtually all gregarious mammals. We here document its widespread occurrence among solitary species as well. By studying the distribution of natal philopatry across various ecological and life-history regimes we attempt to identify its ultimate causes. The variables that emerge as possibly important include adult turnover rates, habitat saturation, spatial patchiness of resources, advantages of familiarity with the natal home range, and reliance on extensive home range "improvements" such as burrow systems of food caches. The most interesting consequence of natal philopatry is the continued spatial association of kin into adulthood, a prerequisite for many phenomena common to gregarious species. Natal philopatry, however, is considerably more widespread than are social groups, and all mammalian taxa containing gregarious species also include solitary species that exhibit philopatry. These observations suggest that an important part of understanding how complex social groups have arisen is understanding the conditions that have led to natal philopatry.
2828644|The fusion of somatic cells offers unique prospects for combining plant species that cannot be crossed sexually. This review investigates the involvement and consequences for intergeneric somatic hybridization of various types of somatic incompatibility as a phenomenon analogous to incompatibility and incongruity in sexual crosses. From an extensive survey of the literature on plant as well as vertebrate somatic cell fusion, various intracellular processes have been identified and are discussed as operational sites for somatic incompatibility reactions that interfere with the regular development of somatic hybrid cells and plants. The structural and dynamic instability of chromosomes can explain why many intergeneric fusion products have failed to proliferate continuously. The great complexity of the processes involved in the morphological differentiation of a hybrid plant makes heavy demands on the timing and sychronization of regulatory signals, and thus provides sites of action for somatic incompatibility mechanisms. The enforced coesixtence, in a hybrid cell, of the genomes and the cytoplasmic genophores from the two parents suggests that somatic incompatibility also results from genome-plasmon interactions. Functional plant regeneration from hybrid cells unimpaired by somatic incompatibility is required for agricultural uses of somatic hybridization. In contrast, somatic-cell genetical studies on the complementation, expression, and regulation of cellular traits are possible with non-morphogenic lines, and investigations of the chromosomal assignment, linkage, and segregation of relevant genes actually depend upon somatic incompatibility operating in somatic hybrid cells. Various experimental constraints of previous studies of discussed, and areas have been suggested where future investigations are needed for a further analysis and a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying somatic incompatibility.
QRB3007|The acute-phase response (APR) is a systemic response to severe trauma, infection, and cancer, although many of the numerous cytokine-mediated components of the APR are incompletely understood. Some of these components, such as fever, reduced availability of iron and zinc, and nutritional restriction due to anorexia, appear to be stressors capable of causing harm to both the pathogen and the host. We review how the host benefits from differences in susceptibility to stress between pathogens and the host. Pathogens, infected host cells, and neoplastic cells are generally more stressed or vulnerable to additional stress than the host because: a) targeted local inflammation works in synergy with APR stressors; b) proliferation/growth increases vulnerability to stress; c) altered pathogen physiology results in pathogen stress or vulnerability; and d) protective heat shock responses are partially abrogated in pathogens since their responses are utilized by the host to enhance immune responses. Therefore, the host utilizes a coordinated system of endogenous stressors to provide additional levels of defense against pathogens. This model of immune brinksmanship can explain the evolutionary basis for the mutually stressful components of the APR.
QRB2883|Understanding the maintenance of sexual reproduction constitutes a difficult problem for evolutionary biologists because of the immediate costs that sex seems to incur. Typically, general benefits to sex and recombination are investigated that might outweigh these costs. However, several factors can strongly influence the complex balance between costs and benefits of sex; these include constraints on the evolution of asexuality, ecological differentiation, and certain life-history traits. We review these factors and their empirical support for the first time in a unified framework and find that they can reduce the costs of sex, circumvent them, or make them inapplicable. These factors can even tip the scales to a net benefit for sex. The reviewed factors affect species and species groups differently, and we conclude consequently that understanding the maintenance of sex could turn out to be more species-specific than commonly assumed. Interestingly, our study suggests that, in some species, no general benefits to sex and recombination might be needed to understand the maintenance of sex, as in our case study of dandelions.
QRB3525|Male and female homosexuality have substantial prevalence in humans. Pedigree and twin studies indicate that homosexuality has substantial heritability in both sexes, yet concordance between identical twins is low and molecular studies have failed to find associated DNA markers. This paradoxical pattern calls for an explanation. We use published data on fetal androgen signaling and gene regulation via nongenetic changes in DNA packaging (epigenetics) to develop a new model for homosexuality. It is well established that fetal androgen signaling strongly influences sexual development. We show that an unappreciated feature of this process is reduced androgen sensitivity in XX fetuses and enhanced sensitivity in XY fetuses, and that this difference is most feasibly caused by numerous sex-specific epigenetic modifications (epi-marks) originating in embryonic stem cells. These epi-marks buffer XX fetuses from masculinization due to excess fetal androgen exposure and similarly buffer XY fetuses from androgen underexposure. Extant data indicates that individual epi-marks influence some but not other sexually dimorphic traits, vary in strength across individuals, and are produced during ontogeny and erased between generations. Those that escape erasure will steer development of the sexual phenotypes they influence in a gonad-discordant direction in opposite sex offspring, mosaically feminizing XY offspring and masculinizing XX offspring. Such sex-specific epi-marks are sexually antagonistic (SA-epi-marks) because they canalize sexual development in the parent that produced them, but contribute to gonad-trait discordances in opposite-sex offspring when unerased. In this model, homosexuality occurs when stronger-than-average SA-epi-marks (influencing sexual preference) from an opposite-sex parent escape erasure and are then paired with a weaker-than-average de novo sex-specific epi-marks produced in opposite-sex offspring. Our model predicts that homosexuality is part of a wider phenomenon in which recently evolved androgen-influenced traits commonly display gonad-trait discordances at substantial frequency, and that the molecular feature underlying most homosexuality is not DNA polymorphism(s), but epi-marks that evolved to canalize sexual dimorphic development that sometimes carryover across generations and contribute to gonad-trait discordances in opposite-sex descendants.
QRB3629|In the past few decades, sex differences in spatial cognition have often been attributed to adaptation in response to natural selection. A common explanation is that home range size differences between the sexes created different cognitive demands pertinent to wayfinding in each sex and resulted in the evolution of sex differences in spatial navigational ability in both humans and nonhuman mammals. However, the assumption of adaptation as the appropriate mode of explanation was nearly simultaneous with the discovery and subsequent verification of the male superiority effect, even without any substantive evidence establishing a causal role for adaptation. An alternate possibility that the sex difference in cognition is a genetic or hormonal side effect has not been rigorously tested using the comparative method. The present study directly evaluates how well the range hypothesis fits the available data on species differences in spatial ability by use of a phylogenetically based, cross-species, comparative analysis. We find no support for the hypothesis that species differences in home range size dimorphism are positively associated with parallel differences in spatial navigation abilities. The alternative hypothesis that sex differences in spatial cognition result as a hormonal side effect is better supported by the data.
QRB3519|The notion of the biological individual is crucial to studies of genetics, immunology, evolution, development, anatomy, and physiology. Each of these biological subdisciplines has a specific conception of individuality, which has historically provided conceptual contexts for integrating newly acquired data. During the past decade, nucleic acid analysis, especially genomic sequencing and high-throughput RNA techniques, has challenged each of these disciplinary definitions by finding significant interactions of animals and plants with symbiotic microorganisms that disrupt the boundaries that heretofore had characterized the biological individual. Animals cannot be considered individuals by anatomical or physiological criteria because a diversity of symbionts are both present and functional in completing metabolic pathways and serving other physiological functions. Similarly, these new studies have shown that animal development is incomplete without symbionts. Symbionts also constitute a second mode of genetic inheritance, providing selectable genetic variation for natural selection. The immune system also develops, in part, in dialogue with symbionts and thereby functions as a mechanism for integrating microbes into the animal-cell community. Recognizing the holobiontthe multicellular eukaryote plus its colonies of persistent symbiontsas a critically important unit of anatomy, development, physiology, immunology, and evolution opens up new investigative avenues and conceptually challenges the ways in which the biological subdisciplines have heretofore characterized living entities.
QRB3318|The problem of eukaryogenesisthe evolutionary mechanism whereby eukaryotic cells evolved from prokaryotesremains one of the great unsolved mysteries of cell biology, possibly due to the reductionist tendency of most scientists to work only within their subdisciplines. Communication between biologists who conduct research on the nucleus and those working on the cytoskeleton or endomembrane system are sometimes wanting, and yet, all of these quintessentially eukaryotic elements of the cell are interdependent, and are physically associated in many protists as the karyomastigont organellar system: nucleus, one or more basal bodies and flagella, nuclear connector, and Golgi apparatus. Here we suggest a more holistic view of the karyomastigont as not simply an organellar system, but an evolutionary seme, the archaic state of the eukaryotic cell. We also present a scheme whereby the karyomastigont may have dissociated, giving rise in more derived cells to one or more free nuclei and discrete flagellar apparati (akaryomastigonts).
QRB2866|Secondary injury is a term applied to the destructive and self-propagating biological changes in cells and tissues that lead to their dysfunction or death over hours to weeks after the initial insult (the primary injury). In most contexts, the initial injury is usually mechanical. The more destructive phase of secondary injury is, however, more responsible for cell death and functional deficits. This subject is described and reviewed differently in the literature. To biomedical researchers, systemic and tissue-level changes such as hemorrhage, edema, and ischemia usually define this subject. To cell and molecular biologists, secondary injury refers to a series of predominately molecular events and an increasingly restricted set of aberrant biochemical pathways and products. These biochemical and ionic changes are seen to lead to death of the initially compromised cells and healthy cells nearby through necrosis or apoptosis. This latter process is called bystander damage. These viewpoints have largely dominated the recent literature, especially in studies of the central nervous system (CNS), often without attempts to place the molecular events in the context of progressive systemic and tissue-level changes. Here we provide a more comprehensive and inclusive discussion of this topic.
QRB3405|This article examines how both scientists and creationists, as they argue over intelligent design, invoke and quote the fictional character of Sherlock Holmes to support their opposed positions. Rhetorical analysis of Holmes's repeated contributions to the debate reveals not only how the argument for design falls apart, but also how the argument for Darwin compromises itself when following the detective onto shaky logical ground. The sciences and the humanities must work together to combat the corrosive influence of pseudoscientific reasoning on our students and the general public; this article contributes to that joint enterprise.
QRB3097|Many dietary fatty acids (FA) have potent effects on inflammation, which is not only energetically costly, but also contributes to a range of chronic diseases. This presents an evolutionary paradox: Why should the host initiate a costly and damaging response to commonly encountered nutrients? We propose that the immune system has evolved a capacity to modify expenditure on inflammation to compensate for the effects of dietary FA on gut microorganisms. In a comprehensive literature review, we show that the body preferentially upregulates inflammation in response to saturated FA that promote harmful microbes. In contrast, the host often reduces inflammation in response to the many unsaturated FA with antimicrobial properties. Our model is supported by contrasts involving shorter-chain FA and omega-3 FA, but with less consistent evidence for
2816897|The Soviet biophysical literature has been the subject of an extensive and critical review. The subject matter has been subdivided into sections on techniques, effect sof ionizing radiation, effects of light radiation, photosynthesis, effects of ultrasonics, paramagnetic resonance, microorganisms, viruses, cell structure, proteins, nucleic acids, and muscle, nerve, vision and taste. A bibliography of 520 entries is included. The work which has been reviewed covers the best and worst in Soviet science. In general those experiments and concepts in fields that are close to physics are excellent. Examples are the work in paramagnetic resonance, energy transfer mechanism in photosynthesis systems, the properties of structural proteins such as procollagen, and the coding properties of DNA. The average paper concerned with more biological subject matter, such as microorganisms, viruses, and proteins, seems outdated in concept and lacking in controlled experiments or adequate data. Recent reviews (which contain mostly references to Western literature) indicate that Soviet scientists are well acquainted with in Western countries and that the role of DNA as a carrier of genetic information is now fully appreciated.
2816898|The widely accepted idea that melanin pigment in human skin protects against sunlight, and that this has bearing upon adaptation to life in the tropics and the distribution of races, is a examined in terms of its physical and Physiological aspects. Regarded in such terms the concept appears to have little merit. It is concluded that whereas the pigment may have a slight adaptive value as regards some aspects of the organism-environment relationship, it may be non-adaptive as regards others; and the respective values may depend upon various complicating factors of the environment. Moreover, the distribution of races according to skin color does not appear to conform well to what would be expected from the spectral distribution of sunlight.
2816899|The evolutionary significance of the adaptation of flowers to distinct classes of pollinators is considered and an attempt is made to assess the frequency with the mutual adaptations of flowers and particular night-flying flower-visitors have become so close as to provide reproductive isolation for the plant from those adapted to other visitors. Probably the obligate relationship shown by Yuccas represents a nearly unique situation which may have reduced rather than promoted rates of speciation in both the Yuccas and the Yucca moths to which they are adapted. A description is given to the general characteristics of flowers which are adapted to pollination by evening, night, and early morning visitors (including birds). The flowers of many tropical and sub-tropical trees are pollinated by bats, and two flower-types are discussed in this context. The restriction of bat pollination to the tropics and adjacent subtropics appears to result from a lack of suitable plant material in temperate regions. Adaptations to combinations of flower visitors are considered in relation to risks of failure in seed-production. Such "bridging" may also have considerable significance in the evolution of adaptation to new pollinators. Finally, it is concluded that, as yet, there is no evidence that adaptation to any crepuscular or nocturnal pollinators is sufficiently complete to initiate speciation, although the partial reproductive isolation which it provides may complement the effects of other more primary factors in the maintenance of specific distinctions.
2816651|A genetic analysis of pathogenic and antigenic specificity of Puccinia sorghi on four dominant alleles at the Rp locus and on two recessive alleles for resistance in lines of corn permits a theoretical interpretation of genetic control of host-obligate parasite interaction in the light of recent biochemical genetical concepts. The dominant alleles at the Rp locus condition resistance (incompatibility manifested as necrotic fleck) and score a varying spectrum of pathogenic types in the fungus. Each allele is differentially vulnerable (compatible to infection in varying degrees) to one or more pathogenic types of the fungus. The four alleles are complementary in varying dimension, i.e., both quanlitatively and quantitatively, in conditioning rust reaction. The alleles apparently do not influence antigen production in the pathogen significantly. The gene structural analysis of the Rp locus in presently impractical because of the paucity of mutant markers in this region of chromosome X. The data on inheritance of pathogenecity and serotypes in the dicaryon of P. sorghi indicate a complex genic mechanism not resoluble by the application of simple Mendelian concepts alone. The four urediospore clones used were heterozygous for pathogenecity and serotypes. Analysis indicated an indeterminate inheritance with a continuous potential for variation. The genetic unit of complementary function and specificity in a dicaryon line was not constant on the host alleles but became reduced or expanded in complementarity by genetic recombination. The present data do not indicate the fraction of the total genotype that is utilized in conditioning complementarity of fit to a specific differential allele in the host. The use of the genetic linkage map of the pathogenic genotype is impractical in these dicaryotic, obligate parasites; therefore, immunochemical and biochemical methods must be developed to explore the magnitude, structure, and function of the pathogenic locus in P. sorghi and the Rp locus in the host. At this stage of investigation a framework of ideas intended to relate the data on rust reaction to chromosome organization and gene function must be theoretical. The critical review of recent investigations on the biochemical genetics of microorganisms may indicate where to probe for additional evidence on the nauture of the reactions and their genetic regulation.
2816650|Information on the experimental control of the phenomena of zoospore and gamete formation are summarized along with current theories of their underlying physiology. No theory has yet been proposed which satisfactorily incorporates all the data available on the effects of light, temperature, carbon dioxide, oxygen, and external nutrients. Algal culture methods should profit from the adoption of synchronizing techniques now available for algae, and physiological studies of altered cell development should examine more thoroughly the roles of trace elements, vitamins and hormones, red in contrast to far-red light, and the biochemical changes in cell composition during growth.
2817590|The growth, differentiation, and maintenance of the sympathetic nerve cells were found to depend upon a specific protein factor.-The chemical, biological, and immunological properties of this factor are discussed in connection with the recent findings of the presence of the growth factor in the sympathetic nerve cells of a variety of mammals, including man.
2817591|Dormant ascospores of Neurospora remain quiescent and metabolize at a slow rate unless activated by exposure to high temperatures or to chemicals, including certain furans, pyrroles, thiophenes, or organic solvents. As a result of this treatment, a step-wise series of changes is initiated, resultingin in a greatly increased respiratory rate, a loss in thermal resistance, and a rise in the respiratory quotient. Up to 30 minutes after dormancy is broken, deactivation by incubation at 4
2817592|Highly purified preparations of RNA prepared from mature ovarian eggs of Rana catesbeiana contain at least two gross fractions of RNA: one that is soluble in cold 0.5 M perchloric acid (acid-soluble RNA) and another that is insoluble in the same concentration of acid (acid-insoluble RNA). Each Comprises roughly 50 per cent of the total RNA. The two RNA fractions are distinct not only in solubility characteristics but in nucleotide composition as well. A procedure has been developed for the mass isolation of structures morphologically similar to the nucleoli of mature ovarian eggs. These structures contain no DNA, from 8 to 17 per cent RNA, and a large amount of protein. The distribution of P
2814832|Current theories of cytokinesis are reviewed and critically analyzed. The expanding membrane theory and the theory of astral cleavage are shown to be unsatisfactory. Mechanisms which appear to have general validity are: (1) rounding up of cells as a result of the contraction of an actomysin-like substance in the cortex; (2) relaxation of polar cortex permitting continued equatorial contraction to cause furrowing; (3) new membrane formation. It is possible to describe cytokinesis in all cells, plant and animal, in terms of varying dominance of these factors in different cells.
2814833|This review discusses the origin of the regeneration blastema, and particularly the importance of the skin, the skeleton, and other tissues in the process of regeneration. Also considered are reactions of regenerates to irradiation, including the effect of partial irradiation and the regression of regenerates. Especial attention is given to regeneration under abnormal conditions and to abnormal regeneration. The final section is concerned with the problem of stimulation of regeneration and the possibilities of regeneration in mammals.
2825958|Systems models make possible an examination of the machinery by which information is accumulated and exchanged in biological and cultural evolution. Indeterminancy is revealed which obscures our perpectives on the growth of humanity.
2825957|Plant cells in general have a capacity to discriminate between self and non-self. The case for cell recognition in plants is made primarily on evidence from pollen-stigma interactions and stem-grafting experiments. Recognition results in a defined response and may be mediated by surface or secreted determinants, likely to be protein or glycoprotein in nature. Mediators may include lectins, cell wall components such as arabinogalactan proteins, arabinoxylans, and allergens. Antigenic cell determinants may provide an alternative to the traditional morphological approach for the typing of plant cells.
2826580|In this review of the experimental investigation of socially facilitated behavior, the first point to be stressed is that the therm should be used descriptively, without any causal implications. In view of the diversity of the phenomena, it is likely that the mechanisms underlying socially facilitated behavior will vary, not only between species but also within a species in different situations. Functionally, socially facilitated behavior is likely to be more important than environmental factors in attaining group synchrony, since the former provides the fine-scale adjustments to the environmental control of synchrony. By maintaining the group, socially facilitated behavior will thus tend to optimize exploitation of resources and protection from predators, the two most commonly proposed advantages of group living. Socially facilitated behavior may also promote reproductive synchrony, which increases the chances for survival of the offspring. Current experimental techniques in these studies leave much to be desired. There seems to be little to recommend further demonstrations of instances of socially facilitated behavior without some attempt to record the details of the interactions between the individuals or to elucidate the underlying causal mechanisms. Because a social animal is "distressed" by isolation, no simple comparison of the rate at which a particular act occurs in a social situation with that in isolation will be very informative. A more global view of the situations in which socially facilitated behavior can occur is thought to be needed; the investigation of stimulus variables could complement that of motivational, ontogenetic, or social causal influences. A careful consideration of the social interactions involved in socially facilitated behavior and its causation and function is essential if these studies are to contribute toward an understanding of the phenomenon in a way more closely related to the natural life of the species.
2826581|A theoretical review of the physical constraints on cursorial animals provides a list of the morphological correlates of superior running ability, with emphasis on osteological features. This list includes the following adaptations: relatively long limbs; small forelimbs (bipeds only); freely rotating scapula (quadrupeds only); hinge-like joints; short and massive proximal limb elements; long and slender distal limb elements; radius-ulna and tibia-fibula which are reduced to single elements; manus and pes with pronounced median symmetery; digitigrade to unguligrade stance; interlocked or fused metapodials; reduced or lost inner and outer digits, and snap ligaments sometimes present. These adaptations are ubiquitous among phylogenetically diverse animals which run and may be regarded as inevitable in any cursor. Theoretical arguments predict a lower speed potential for very large and very small animals, and this conclusion is supported by empirical data which point to an optimum body mass of about 50 kg for a cursor. By utilizing these findings and a system of four levels of running ability (graviportal, mediportal, subcursorial, cursorial), it is possible to evaluate the running potential of dinosaurs. Quadrupedal dinosaurs had fewer cursorial features than bipeds, and large bipeds had fewer than small bipeds. Sauropods and stegosaurs were graviportal; ankylosaurs and large ceratopsians were low to intermediate grade mediportal; prosauropods were high-grade mediportal; large ornithopods were subcursorial; and large theropods were subcursorial to cursorial. Small ceratopsians were dynamic bipeds and were high-grade subcursorial. Small bipedal ornithischians and small theropods were cursorial and were the fastest of the dinosaurs, but were probably not as fast as the best modern runners.
2826196|An integrative theory is proposed in which environmental carcinogenesis is viewed as a process by which the genetic control of cell division and differentiation is altered by carcinogens. In this theory, carcinogens include physical, chemical, and viral "mutagens," as well as chemical and viral gene modulators. Existing explanations of carcinogenesis can be considered either as somatic mutation theories or as epigenetic theories. Evidence seems to support the hypothesis that both mutations and epigenetic processes are components of carcinogenesis. The mutational basis of cancer is suported by the clonal nature of tumors, the mutagenicity of most carcinogens, high mutation frequencies in cells of cancer-prone human fibroblasts lacking DNA repair enzymes, the correlation of in vitro DNA damage and in vitro mutation and transformation frequencies with in vivo tumorigenesis, age-related incidences of various hereditary tumors, and the correlation between photoreactivation of DNA damage and the biological amelioration of UV-induced neoplasms. Since both mutagens and gene modulators can be carcinogenic it may be that carcinogens affect genes which control cell division. An Integration of the mutation and epigenetic theories of cancer with the "two-stage" theory and Comings's general theory of carcinogenesis is proposed. This integrative theory postulates that carcinogens can affect regulatory genes which control a series of "transforming genes." A general hypothesis is advanced that involves a common mechanism of somatic mutagenesis via error-prone repair of DNA damage which links carcinogenesis, teratogenesis, atherosclerosis and aging. Various concepts are presented to provide a framework for evaluating the scientific, medical, and social implications of cancer.
2826195|Group selection is defined as that process of genetic change which is caused by the differential extinction or proliferation of groups of organisms. A very large proportion of the literature pertaining to group selection consists of theoretical papers; the genetic problems of group selection have been addressed from many different mathematical viewpoints. The general conclusion has been that, although group selection is possible, it cannot override the effects of individual selection within populations except for a highly restricted set of parameter values. Since it is unlikely that conditions in natural populations would fall within the bounds imposed by the models, group selection, by and large, has been considered an insignificant force for evolutionary change. These theoretical conclusions and the assumptions from which they have been derived are reexamined in the light of recent empirical studies of group selection with laboratory populations of the flour beetle, Tribolium (Wade, 1976, 1977). It is shown that the models have a number of assumptions in common which are inherently unfavorable to the operation of group selection. Alternative assumptions derived from the empirical results are suggested and discussed in the hope that they will stimulate further theoretical and empirical study of this controversial subject.
2823461|Even among similar-sized organisms a disparity often exists between different species' relative postnatal growth rates. Some authors have interpreted these differences in an adaptive light. That is, some organisms may grow faster than others because it is adaptive to do so (e.g., Lack, 1968). Other investigators have suggested that much of the interspecific variability in growth rates is due to differences in physiological constraints upon growth. That is, all organisms may be growing as fast as possible, but the physiological limits of growth are set at different levels in different organisms (e.g., Ricklefs, 1969, 1973). In the present study, the postnatal growth rates of a variety of reptiles, birds, mammals, and a few fish are compared, in an effort to find evolutionary differences between these vertebrate classes. This analysis suggests that the evolution of endothermy was a key factor in lifting physiological constraints upon growth rates. The maximum observed growth rates of endotherms (except for some marsupials and anthropoid primates) are at least an order of magnitude greater than the maximum growth rate of any ectotherm. The growth rate of altricial land birds is about twice that of most eutherian mammals, whether altricial or precocial. Most nidifugous birds grow at about the same rate as eutherians. Among mammals, some of the seals display the fastest growth rates of all. Other relatively fast-growing mammals include the artiodactyls, perissodactyls, cetaceans, canids, and lagomorphs. Rodents, prosimians, bats, and other seal species, and most other fissiped carnivores grow at more moderate rates. The slowest growing mammals are the marsupials and anthropoid primates. Elephants, bears, and monotremes also display relatively slow growth. Next, interordinal and interspecific differences in postnatal growth rates within the mammals and birds are explored for any evidence of adaptive "fine tuning" of the growth rate to an animal's environment. The results of this analysis, although not without exception, support the notion that growth rate is adapted to certain features of an animal's environment. In particular, the feeding requirements of an animal, its infant mortality rate, and the availability of food to its parents are sufficient to account for much of the interspecific variation in growth rates among birds and mammals. Ricklefs' (1969) mathematical model of growth is extended by allowing infant mortality rates to be "growth-rate"-dependent. With this adjustment, an optimum intermediate growth rate may exist, the magnitude of which will be altered in an empirically appropriate direction with changes in these environmental parameters. The statistical relatioships between postnatal growth rate and litter size, gestation period, relative brain size, relative birth weight, and milk protein levels are examined for mammals as a whole and for particular subgroups. Birth weight is the independent variable which accounts for most of the residual variance in growth rate (after accounting for adult weight) in most of these comparisons. Altricial mammals grow at statistically the same rate as precocial mammals. The selective factors influencing postnatal growth rates appear therefore to be somewhat different than those that influence the maturity of the young at birth.
2823460|In this review, we analyse data pertinent to the origins of specific immune recognition by lymphocytes. The phenomena of immunity in invertebrates and the cells that might be involved in these processes are considered. We conclude that the existence of vertebrate-type immunocompetent lymphocytes in invertebrates in not yet proven. All vertebrates apparently possess immunologically competent lymphocytes, and the following conclusions may be drawn: (1) Specific antigen recognition by lymphocytes of all vertebrates appears to be mediated by membrane-bound immunoglobulins. These immunoglobulins are, in all probability, distinct from secreted, serum immunoglobulins (antibodies), although serum and surface immunoglobulins share combining sites for antigen which are formed of variable regions. (2) There is evidence for similar functional divisons among the immune systems of all vertebrates, as reflected in the results of anatomical, functional, and physicochemical investigations of lymphocytes from animals as diverse as fish and mammals.
3036809|Phenetic clustering, the forming of hierarchical nonoverlapping groups strictly according to degree of similarity, has serious shortcoming as it is commonly used in biology. When used as a method for estimating phylogeny, phenetic clustering rests on a questionable assumption of correspodence between similarity and recency of common ancestry. This compromises its ability to reconstruct the correct branching sequence when rates of evolutionary divergence are unequal among lineages, as well as causing it to obscure rate differences even when the branching sequence is reconstructed correctly. When used as a method for analysing patterns of geographic variation and genetic continuity among populations, phenetic clustering rests on a questionable assumption of correspondence between similarity and degree of genetic continuity. This compromises its ability to identify genetically continuous units when their component populations are differentiated, and combined with its sensivity to uneven geographic sampling, it can cause the method to yield misleading results if sampling patterns are not taken into consideration. Finally, even when used simply as a method for analysing patterns of similarity without regard to causal processes, phenetic clustering rests on a questionable assumption of nested hierarchical structure. This compromises its ability to represent similarity relationships accurately when those relationships exhibit a significant nonhierarchical component. For all of the common biological applications of phenetic clustering, there exist alternative analytical methods that do not suffer from the problems associated with phenetic clustering. The problems in question result not from the phenetic (similarity) data themselves, which often can be analysed in more appropriate ways, but from the phenetic clustering procedure. At least some of the limitations of phenetic clustering as well as the advantages of alternative methods have been known for many years. Advocacy of phenetic clustering at the expense of more appropriate methods can be explained as the result of constraints imposed by an implicit assumption of nested hierarchies that was part of the taxonomic context within which the methods were developed.
3036810|Inferences about macroevolutionary processes have traditionally depended solely on the fossil record, but such inferences can be strengthened by also considering the shapes of the phylogenetic trees that link extant taxa. The realization that phylogenies reflect macroevolutionary processes has led to a growing literature of theoretical and comparative studies of tree shape. Two aspects of tree shape are particularly important: tree balance and the distribution of branch lenghts. We examine and evaluate recent developments in and connections between these two aspects, and suggest directions for future research. Studies of tree shape promise useful and powerful tests of macroevolutionary hypotheses. With appropriate further research, tree shape may help us detect mass extinctions and adaptive radiations, measure continuos variation in speciation and extinction rates, and associate changes in these rates with ecological or biogeographical causes. The usefulness of tree shape extends well beyond the study of macroevolution. We discuss applications to other areas of biology, including coevolution, phylogenetic inference, population biology, and developmental biology.
3037608|Emlen's (1995) paper "An evolutionary theory of the family" reviewed existing ideas about the nature of family systems and the reasons why they have evolved in certain animal species. His theorizing led him to propose 15 predictions about how family systems function, based on favorable evidence from various species, mostly birds. While he suggested that these predictions can be applied to the human case, he himself did not attempt to do so. We consider the applicability of Emlen's 15 predictions to the study of human family systems, and find that several aspects of the life history and ecology of Homo sapiens require that they be modified. These considerations include: (1) the importance of intragroup solidarity in the context of intergroup competition: unlike in many other species where dispersal constraints arise from food or breeding site shortages, the primary pressure driving human sociality seems to be competition from other human groups; (2) the complex nature of exchange and reciprocity in human society: reciprocal altruism in particular is integral to human social interaction and leads to a particularly high degree of non-nepotistic helping behavior; and (3) the implications of menopause and the existence of potentially dominant, postreproductive helpers: helpers of this sort have little incentive to disperse or to encourage off-spring to disperse, thus greatly increasing family stability.
3036336|The evolution of intrinsic growth rate has received less attention than other life history traits, and has been studied differently in plants, homoiotherms, and poikilotherms. The benefits of rapid growth are obvious, so the problem is to explain the costs and tradeoffs that cause organisms to grow below their physiological maximum. Four prevailing themes emerge from the literature: (1) slow growth is adaptive for dealing with nutrient stress, (2) the tradeoff between growth rate and development limits growth in species that require mature function early in life, (3) rapid growth evolves when a minimum size must be reached quickly, such as for sexual maturation or overwintering, and (4) rapid growth may evolve to compensate for slowed growth owing to environmental conditions. Evidence for each of these themes is detailed for plants, homoiotherms, and poikilotherms. In addition, empirical evidence is reviewed for costs of rapid growth, including increased fluctuating asymmetry, reduced immune capacity, and reduced ability to respond to environmental stress.
3036335|A cell's decision whether to undergo apoptosis (cell suicide) is examined here from an Adaptationist perspective, rather than a mechanistic one. External and internal inputs to the cell's protein-based information processing network are used in making this decision, with the cell factoring in its replaceability. A system in which each cell takes primary responsibility for deciding its own fate has great adaptive value because it harnesses each cell's self-knowledge rather than waiting for external cues to be recognized by other cells. Cell self-destruction can be an important selective mechanism, potentially leading to better performance of tissues over time. However, reliance on cells to monitor themselves has a flaw, since cells may incur selfish mutations that impair their apoptotic responsibility. The tight control exerted over somatic cells serves to check selfish genes involved in neoplasia and viral infections. Germ cells appear to be similarly monitored, both by other germ cells and by supporting follicular or Sertoli cells, thus maintaining the advantages offered by an apoptotic system. The adaptationist approach views the limited replacement of neurons and cardiac myocytes as likely to have net survival value. The linkage of these cell into a network with their neighbors throughout a lifetime allows for a precisely functioning team of cells expected to compensate for gradual declines in individual cell functionality. Replacement of apoptotic cells with naive cells might decrease brain functionality and might risk upsetting the conduction of cardiac impulses. The evolutionary viewpoint lends itself to new hypotheses, but only the boldest speculator would have predicted a system in which cells are given primary responsibility for deciding whether to kill themselves when they deem it beneficial to the organism.
3037381|Patterns of reproduction in African bats can be compared in three taxon-based groups: fruit bats (Megachiroptera), freetailed bats (Microchiroptera: Molossidae) and the nonmolossid Microchiroptera. In the fruit bats and nonmolossid Microchiroptera there is a trend from either seasonal or aseasonal polyestry, with prolonged or continuous spermatogenesis in the tropics, towards seasonal monestry and seasonal spermatogenesis at more temperate latitudes. Reproductive delays (sperm storage, delayed implantation and delayed development) are rare at tropical latitudes, but are the norm in the nonmolossid Microchiroptera away from the tropics. The molossids are moslty polyestrous at tropical and temperate latitudes, although the duration of the reproductive season decreases with increasing latitude. The molossids appear to have escaped the constraints that affect reproduction of the other Microchiroptera. We propose that this may be due to their flight capabilities and foraging behavior, which give them access to year-round food, and to the thermal characteristics of their roosts. We suggest that the ancestral reproductive pattern of the Chiroptera was probably aseasonal on polyestry, as seen in extant tropical species, and therefore that reproductive cycles have evolved from the polyestrous to the monestrous to the monestrous condition. Short periods of reproductive delay occur in some species of tropical bats; we suggest that these reproductive delays originally were not adaptations to temperate latitudes but rather to the long dry season, which is characteristic of African tropical latitudes. With the move away from the tropics, selective pressures, acting on the timing of lactation and spermatogenesis, would have ensured that these preocesses continued to occur in the warm wet season, and that the length of the reporductive delay increased. This model accommodates the probable evolutionary origin of bats and links the evolution and development of reproductive delays to the differences in climate that occur with changes in latitude. There is evidence that mate choice and sperm competition may be important to modern bats, but we believe that they need not be invoked as causal factors in the evolution of reproductive delays, which can be adequately explained using purely energetic arguments.
3037382|Honey bees (Apis mellifera L.), native to Eurasia and Africa, have been introduced to most of the rest of the world. Many plant species are used by introduced honey bees, which suggests a high potential for disturbance of native plant/pollinator relationships. Few species are used intensively, however, thus decreasing the opportunity for disturbance. Pollination studies show that honey bees are effective pollinators of some native plants and less effective pollinators of others; they also reduce floral resources in some species with little or no pollination. Data are insufficient to show whether honey bee foraging on native plants significantly alters pollen and gene flow, but unusual foraging behavior by honey bees is not evident compared to many other pollinators. Honey bees do not physically damage plants; they are also unlikely to increase hybridization of native flora. Pollination by honey bees probably contributes little to the success of most weeds. Experiments have not shown competition for nesting sites between honey bees and native fauna. The presence of honey bees, however, alters the foraging behavior and abundance of some native fauna on flowers, but no studies have shown detrimental impacts of honey bees on population abundances of any native animals or plants. Anecdotal and quantitative reports of increased honey bee abundances on flowers compared with native fauna are often confounded with habitat changes induced by man.
2820539|General systems behavior theory is concerned with seven levels of living systems-cell, organ, organism, group, organization, society, and supranational system. The following article is an exposition of the basic concepts in this integrative theoretical approach. It is a condensation of a more detailed statement (Miller, 1965a; 1965b; 1965c). The second article is an analysis in terms of this conceptual system of present knowledge concerning one level of living system-the organism. In order to emphasize the cross-level formal identities among levels of living systems, a major consideration of general behavior systems theory, this article follows exactly the same outline, with identical subheadings and section numbers, as other articles written by the author. These deal with the lower levels of living systems-cell and organ (Miller, 1971a)-as well as higher levels-group (Miller, 1971b), organization (Miller, 1972), society, and supranational system. (All the articles will be published together as chapters of the author's forthcoming book, Living Systems.) The primary intent of this article, in addition to its analysis of the content it covers, is to show that the structures and processes of organisms and of living systems at all the levels are directly comparable. Since anatomists and physiologists are usually laymen in organization theory or international relations, psychologists are commonly laymen in economics, and social scientists are ordinarily laymen in cellular biology, all parts of the book, including the two following articles, are necessarily written for intelligent laymen rather than experts, even though the articles deal with many technical topics. Some statements in them will seem to experts to be too elementary to be worth repeating. If a fact is fundamental and may not be known to specialists in other fields it is stated here, even if it is elementary to the experts. The complex division of labor of modern science, often characterized by pluralistic insularity, requires this. The multitude of detailed and specialized experiments and studies that have been carried out provide the substance of the scientific investigation of organisms. Their findings constitute the trees. But an overview of these results and of the relationships among them-a view of the forest-is also essential. Such a telescopic rather than a microscopic view may suggest the proper balance for research on various aspects of organisms and clarify the priorities for future efforts. The Following articles view organisms broadly. They deal with all living systems at this level-protistans, fungi, and plants, as well as animals. Why such a range? To make manifest the continuity or organismic life in structure, process, and history (including evolution). To demonstrate how structure and process go together, so that anatomists, physiologists, and psychologists undestand the common task they share and how each field can enrich the others. Most of the ideas presented in these articles are not new even though the conceptual integration is original with the author. The concepts are derived from many aspects of science and have been developed by many workers, including various former associates of the author at the Universities of Chicago and Michigan, and systems scientists in many other places. The articles necessarily select for discussion only a few researches out of the vast published repertoire, and this selection has necessarily been arbitrary. Experts in each special field might agree on other studies as more important. Some of the author's statements may be wrong and his analysis ill advised. It so he would appreciate corrections-it is hard to cover such a wide range and still make no errors. The constant reference in the second article to cross-level hypotheses stated in the first article has the purpose of showing that propositions possibly valid at other levels may also apply to organism. At each level there are scientists who apply system theory in their investigations. They are systems theorists but not necessarily general systems theorists. They are general systems theorists only if they accept the more daring and controversial position that-though every living system and every level is obviously unique-there are important formal identities of large generality across levels. Such cross-level similarities can potentially be evaluated quantitatively, applying the same model to data collected at two or more levels. This possibility is the chief reason why the author has used the same outline with identically numbered sections to analyze the present knowledge about each of the seven levels of living systems. The following survey of what is known about organisms as systems, therefore, is to be read as a single segment of a larger, integrated whole.
2820538|General systems behavior theory is concerned with seven levels of living systems-cell, organ, organism, group, organization, society, and supranational system. The following article is an exposition of the basic concepts in this integrative theoretical approach. It is a condensation of a more detailed statement (Miller, 1965a; 1965b; 1965c). The second article is an analysis in terms of this conceptual system of present knowledge concerning one level of living system-the organism. In order to emphasize the cross-level formal identities among levels of living systems, a major consideration of general behavior systems theory, this article follows exactly the same outline, with identical subheadings and section numbers, as other articles written by the author. These deal with the lower levels of living systems-cell and organ (Miller, 1971a)-as well as higher levels-group (Miller, 1971b), organization (Miller, 1972), society, and supranational system. (All the articles will be published together as chapters of the author's forthcoming book, Living Systems.) The primary intent of this article, in addition to its analysis of the content it covers, is to show that the structures and processes of organisms and of living systems at all the levels are directly comparable. Since anatomists and physiologists are usually laymen in organization theory or international relations, psychologists are commonly laymen in economics, and social scientists are ordinarily laymen in cellular biology, all parts of the book, including the two following articles, are necessarily written for intelligent laymen rather than experts, even though the articles deal with many technical topics. Some statements in them will seem to experts to be too elementary to be worth repeating. If a fact is fundamental and may not be known to specialists in other fields it is stated here, even if it is elementary to the experts. The complex division of labor of modern science, often characterized by pluralistic insularity, requires this. The multitude of detailed and specialized experiments and studies that have been carried out provide the substance of the scientific investigation of organisms. Their findings constitute the trees. But an overview of these results and of the relationships among them-a view of the forest-is also essential. Such a telescopic rather than a microscopic view may suggest the proper balance for research on various aspects of organisms and clarify the priorities for future efforts. The Following articles view organisms broadly. They deal with all living systems at this level-protistans, fungi, and plants, as well as animals. Why such a range? To make manifest the continuity or organismic life in structure, process, and history (including evolution). To demonstrate how structure and process go together, so that anatomists, physiologists, and psychologists undestand the common task they share and how each field can enrich the others. Most of the ideas presented in these articles are not new even though the conceptual integration is original with the author. The concepts are derived from many aspects of science and have been developed by many workers, including various former associates of the author at the Universities of Chicago and Michigan, and systems scientists in many other places. The articles necessarily select for discussion only a few researches out of the vast published repertoire, and this selection has necessarily been arbitrary. Experts in each special field might agree on other studies as more important. Some of the author's statements may be wrong and his analysis ill advised. It so he would appreciate corrections-it is hard to cover such a wide range and still make no errors. The constant reference in the second article to cross-level hypotheses stated in the first article has the purpose of showing that propositions possibly valid at other levels may also apply to organism. At each level there are scientists who apply system theory in their investigations. They are systems theorists but not necessarily general systems theorists. They are general systems theorists only if they accept the more daring and controversial position that-though every living system and every level is obviously unique-there are important formal identities of large generality across levels. Such cross-level similarities can potentially be evaluated quantitatively, applying the same model to data collected at two or more levels. This possibility is the chief reason why the author has used the same outline with identically numbered sections to analyze the present knowledge about each of the seven levels of living systems. The following survey of what is known about organisms as systems, therefore, is to be read as a single segment of a larger, integrated whole.
2822621|Trichomes occur in a multitude of forms and sizes. Although they have been used widely for taxonomic purposes, their adaptive significance has been all but ignored by the evolutionist and ecologist. It is clear that trichomes play a role in plant defense, especially with regard to phytophagous insects. In numerous species there is a negative correlation between trichome density and insect feeding and oviposition responses, and the nutrition of larvae. Specialized hooked trichomes may impale adults or larvae as well. Trichome may also complement the chemical defense of a plant by possessing glands which exude terpenes, phenolics, alkaloids or other substances which are olfactory or gustatory repellents. In essence, glandular trichomes afford an outer line of chemical defense by advertising the presence of "noxious" compounds. In some groups of plants, protection against large mammals is achieved by the presence of stinging trichomes. Intraspecific variation for trichome type and density is known in many species, and often is clinal in accordance with ecographic parameters. The presence of such correlations does not imply that differences in predator pressure are the causal factors, although this may indeed be the case.
2820653|This review concerns recent experimental information in areas of animal cell molecular biology which are relevant to the mechanism of gene regulation. New data regarding interspersion and clustering of repetitive sequence elements in DNA are considered. Molecular characteristics of animal structural genes and mRNAs are discussed, with particular reference to the frequency of structural gene sequences, mRNA turnover, and the interpretation of dipteran complementation groups. The molecular characteristics of nuclear RNAs, the primary transcription products, are reviewed. Evidence for transcription level regulation is summarized and the relation of nuclear and mRNA examined. The protein activator branch of the Britten-Davidson model for gene regulations is further developed and considered in ligh of current knowledge.
2820652|Early embryogenesis in higher animals proceeds through a series of complex morphogenetic movements followed by intercellular communications sufficiently sophisticated that most groups of cells learn their positions and their fates before physical evidence for differentiation can be detected. It has been assumed that molecular events at the cell surface are initially responsible for the recognition and communication between cell and environment in these systems, but the nature of these molecular events has been totally obscure. This review presents the argument that recognition and communication may result from interactions between cell surface glycosyltransferases and their cell surface glycosyl acceptors. If two cells possess surfaces enzymes and appropriate substrates, and if these are prohibited from interacting with each other on a single cell surface, then enzyme-substrate binding will occur between these two cells when they make contact. This relationship would account for intercellular recognition. By controlling the availability of the necessary sugar donor or the required cation, cells could control the degree to which these complexes undergo catalysis. If catalysis should take place, then the cells will have changed each other's surface carbohydrates. This, in turn, could initiate intracellular changes and might account for communication. Evidence for this model comes from studies on normal and malignant cells in culture, adhesive recognition between embryonic cells, organ culture of embryonic tissues, whole embryos, platelet aggregation, and clearance of serum glycoproteins by the liver.
2820544|The balance of nature has been a background assumption in natural history since antiquity, but even to the present it has seldom been closely studied. The idea of a balance of nature emerged, but only implicity, in antiquity. During the 17th century, with an increased knowledge of natural history, the idea became a functional assumption, but within a theological rather than ecological context. In the 18th century Linnaeus defined the concept and attempted to make it the foundation of an ecological science. However, it remained tied to theology and was elaborated without critical examination. The existence of agricultural pests, the occasional occurrence of plagues of animals, and the possibility of species having become extinct were kinds of evidence which would have been difficult to reconcile with contemporary concepts. Lamarck was one of the few who perceived some anomaly, and he attempted to save the old concept by arguing that fossils represented early forms of existing species rather than extinct species. His ideas were not widely accepted. Wallace found fault with the Linnaean concept, but it was only a passing thought which he never published. Darwin attempted to assimilate the balanced-of-nature concept into his description of natural selection, but without exploring the inconsistencies between the Linnacean concept and his theory. As other naturalists shifted their interpretations of nature from static to evolving, few of them appreciated the need to change their understanding of the balance of nature accordingly. Some naturalists and ecologists who have thought seriously about balance of nature have postulated somewhat mystical supraorganismic concepts. These, like the general concepts, arose in antiquity, but unlike the general concepts they have won only limited acceptance. Balance-of-nature concepts apparently have receded in importance with the rise of ecological specialization, probably because ecologists have developed more precise concepts of productivity and ecosystem can serve about the same explanatory functions.
2820541|Control of growth and development is examined from the viewpoint of three groups of phenomena characteristic of monocotyledons and related to (1) sheathing nature of the leaf, (2) lack of secondary growth in most species, and (3) presence of a unique cambium in some species. Some recent experimental investigations in these groups are reviewed, and tropical examples are stressed.
2820543|Long-distance transport in system and phloem of stems of arborescent monocotyledons takes place in primary tissues which must function throughout the life of the plant. Even though the vascular system of the stem forms a complex network, accidental embolism of xylem vessels cannot spread much, if it occurs anywhere, because vessels of cross connections ("bridges") are of limited lenght. The path of phloem transport of "C-labeled sugar has been plotted in a small palm stem with the shuttle microscope through a series of approximately 10,000 autoradiographs of transverse sections. It followed the complex vascular pattern which had been elucidated earlier with cinematographic analysis.
2820540|Epiphytism is predicated on the possession of a disparate array of adaptive features involving many aspects of the plant body and all phases of the life cycle. Among the most basic of these adaptations are those designed to enhance salt procurement and to increase the efficiency of neral use. Mineral procurement and nutrient economy in the Bromeliaceae and the Orchidaceae are accomplished in the forest canopy by at least three strategies, each differing from one or both of the others in terms of the organs of absorption involved, the relative quantities of certain mineral nutrients accumulated, and the sources and quality of the mineral supply. Neither atmospheric bromeliads nor xerophytic orchid epiphytes have been able to modify those aspects of their form and function which increase water and nutrient economy, without also accepting a reduced performance for certain other vital functions such as sexual reproduction and photosynthesis. The resultant slow rates of growth, small stature, and lowered reproductive potential can be tolerated by extreme epiphytes becase neither competition nor possibly predation, is severe in the arid forest canopy. Although several strategies have been employed to succeed in the dry epiphytic biotope, few families are involved in extreme epiphytism. The barrier between terrestrial life and full epiphytism may have been crossed only by those few taxa which, as terrestrials, came to possess a large and fortuitous combination of unrelated preadaptations. These preadaptations, several of which have not been well defined, probably assumed increased ecological significance while the evolutionary lines possessing them moved from the ground up the forest profile or directly into the drier zones of the canopy. Because it is influenced by so many aspects of the plant body at all stages of the life cycle, the salt economy of higher plants can only be fully understood when a comprehensive approach, which considers phenomena ranging from membrane permeabilities to the ecology of the entire population, is employed. Similar analyses of related taxa from more fertile sites will be required to elucidate the evolutionary histories of the specialized nutritional strategies serving extreme epiphytes.
2820542|Three pathways of net carbon assimilation and reduction have been detected in certain higher plant. The three recognized pathways are: the reductive pentose phosphate, the C
2822141|A brief survey of types of branch attachment in monocotyledons shows a wide range of morphological possibilities. This diversity is duscussed in the light of recent analytical studies of the development of the vascular system in monocotyledons, expecially in the larger, woody forms which have a special interpretive appeal. Vascular interlinkage is seen here as the result of interaction between growth centers. Morphological diversity can accordingly be comprehended in quite simple developmental terms.
2822142|Human hosts exposed to infection are model systems for studying the interactions of parasites with each other and with their environments. This paper uses published epidemiological data to demonstrate an interaction among the species of human malaria that is expected from ecological and evolutionary theory. Under certain circumstances, there are fewer mixed malarial infections in human beings than would be expected if infection with one species of malaria were independent of infection with each other species. This reduction in the number of mixed infections is strongly associated with enlargement of the spleen of the human hosts, and less strongly with situations that stimulate immune responses. Such heterologous resistance is probably best explained as a partial heterologous immunity to malaria in man, since experiments in other mammals have shown that immune mechanisms can eliminate or reduce the level of mixed infections. Though competition among mixed malaria species for nutrients in limited supply in hosts with splenomegaly is possilbe, most hypotheses which explain the reduction in mixed infections as an artifact or as a result of nonimmune mechanisms are either not consistent with all the observed data or are not now known to suffice to account for them. If heterologous immunity can indeed greatly reduce the prevalence of mixed infections, as is claimed, then a malaria vaccine need not be specific to each of the species, strains, or antigenic variants of Plasmodium in order to be effective.
2822139|Past and Present taxonomic treatments and evolutionary analyses of monocotyledons have noted that unspecialized reproductive structures occur in some palms, but the size, inaccessibility, apparent and often real complexity of these plants have hampered detailed studies until recently. The most primitive palms are 14 or 15 apocarpous genera belonging to the Trithrinaux alliance in the coryphoid group. Apocarpy also characterizes Phoenix, a genus related to coryphoid palms but more specialized in some respects, and Nypa fruticans, a mangrove palm with a unique combination of primitive and specialized features. Distribution patterns, habits, leaf structure, germination, reproductive structures, chromosomes numbers, vessels, and vascular systems are described, as presently known, in these primitive palms, and their significance in the evolution of other palms, monocotyledons, and dicotyledons is evaluated. It is concluded that the palsm are not a morphologically unique and isolated group, as often postulated, but that they frequently express most clearly evolutionary sequences fundamental to monocotyledons as a whole. Evolution in palms substantiates a number of different evolutionary sequences in monocotyledons and dicotyledons, and suggests other possibly different trends for investigation. The review provides evidence that the exploitation of different evolutionary sequences by monocotyledons and dicotyledons necessitates separate consideration of evolution within each class of angiosperms. It is suggested that an early divergence of monocotyledons and dicotyledons from protoangiosperms or perhaps even from preangiosperms may be compared to the evolution of birds and mammals from diverse reptilian groups.
2822138|Studies of fossil pollen and leaves from Lower Cretaceous rocks, including the Potomac Group of Maryland and Virginia, provide direct evidence on the course of early evolution in the angiosperms. Fossils with features restricted to the monocotyledons-monosulcate pollen with reticulate sculpture differentiated into coarse and fine areas, and leaves (acaciaephyllum Fontaine) with apically fusing secondary venation and finer cross-veins-occur in the basal Potomac (Aptain?) and indicate that the monocotyledonous line had become established at this time, when the dicotyledonous flora was still at a very early stage in its difersification (exclusively monosulcate, with putatively primitive leaf architecture). The existence of peltatecordate dicotyledon leaves in slightly younger rocks (Middle Albian?) suggests that both the Nymphaeales and monocotyledons may be relicts of an early radiation of herbaceous (in part, aquatic) angiosperms. The pollen and megafossil record of Palms, beginning with putatively primitive costapalmate leaves in the late Upper Cretaceous (Senonian), suggests that the palms, like the grasses, originated and diversified relatively late in the history of monocotyledons.
2822140|A review of the previous literature on the morphology and evolution of monocotyledonous leaves reveals a number of interpretive controversies and contradictions. The phyllode theory, which has been the prevailing interpretation of the origin and evolution of monocotyledonous leaves, is evaluated and is shown to have been biased by a preoccupation with temperate monocotyledons and the exclusive study of mature leaf morphology and vascular anatomy. Recent investigations of comparative development have provided a broader basis for the evaluation of structural relationships of leaves in the monocotyledons and dicotyledons and have served to eliminate some of the interpretive inconsistencies that were based on the study of vascular anatomy only. The most controversial leaf type in the monocotyledons has been the unifacial (radially symmetrical) leaf found in a number of divergent families. Contrary to the original Phyllode theory of the Candolle (1827) and Arber (1918), developmental comparison of unifacial appendages of monocotyledons with rachis leaves of Umbelliferae suggests that the terete leaf axis of the former is not simply an elaborated petiole but is positionally equivalent to the laminar region of a dicotyledonous leaf. Instead of being expanded in surface by marginal growth, the unifacial moncotyledonous leaf is thickened developmentally and hence has become nearly radial in summetry. Thus the original phyllode concept of the loss of the blade retion and the expansion and assumption of its function by the petiole no longer seems valid for monocotyledonous leaves. In addition, comparative developmental studies, as well as the analysis of serial changes in leaf morphology, have confirmed that where dorsiventral, laminar leaves are developed in the monocotyledons, they are developmental elaborations of the basal, meristem-encircling part of the leaf primordium, and the distal upper leaf zone remains rudimentary. Therefore, blade regions of such dorsiventral appendages are not homologous with those of dicotyledons because they have a different developmental origin; laminae of dicotyledons are derived from the upper leaf zone. It is suggested that the basic construction of monocotyledonous leaves consists of two regions: (1) a distal unifacial upper sector; and (2) a proximal bifacial sheath; variations in leaf morphology in a range of monocotyledonous taxa are therefore due to reciprocal elaboration, or suppression of these two sectors, or both. It is emphasized, however, that before any model of this sort can be extended to the monocotyledons as a whole, it must be evaluated rigorously in the broadest range of representatives from each major family.
3036036|It is widely believed that mutualisms, interspecific interactions that benefit both species, have been grossly neglected relative to their true importance in nature. I have reviewed the recent primary literature in order to assess quentitatively the frequency of studies of mutualism, the types of questions they address, and their general scientific approach. All articles appearing from 1986 to 1990 in nine major journals that publish ecological and evolutionary research were examined. It is clear that mutualism research is not in fact rare. Studies of interspecific interactions made up about 22% of theover 4500 articles published during this period; of these, about one-quarter investigated some form of mutualism. Over 90% of them investigated plant-animal interactions, primarily pollination (52%) and seed dispersal (31%), a bias probably related in part to the particular journals examined. The diversity of questions addressed in these articles was surprisingly low. The majority (63%) focused simply on identifying the mutualist of some species of interest. Furthermore, almost all studies were unilateral, that is, they focused on only one of the interacting species, plants being studied much more frequently than their animal partners. Mutualism studies do not appear to have focused on mutualism as a form of interaction in the same way as studies of competition and predation. Rather, researchers have treated mutualism primarily as a life history attribute of one of the two partners. Consequently, although an impressive amount of information has accumulated about these interactions, we are still far from achieving an overall picture that transcends the boundaries of particular taxa or comibinations of taxa. Three other obstacles have prevented data on mutualisms from being brought together: the historical isolation of studies of different kinds of mutualism, a nearly total disconnection between mutualism theories and empirical studies, and the unilateral approach almost always used to study these bilateral interactions. I identify eight research questions whose answers have the potential to reveal broad-based generalizations about the evolution and ecology of mutualism.
3036035|"Fitness" has been used to indicate a measure of general adaptedness, and to indicate a short-term measure of reproductive success. The former concept seems unproductive in evoutionary biology, but consensus on the exact form of the latter might be possible. Fitness as a short-term measure of reproductive success can be defined from the demographic recurrence equations for genotypic number; it refers to a genotype or to a genotypic combination, if genotypes interact. Fitness summarizes a model for genotypic demography for a given set of assumptions about the population and the genotypic and individual interactions within it. For a population growing at a constant rate, demographic genotypic fitness has the same shape as reproductive value at birth; but reproductive value refers to a cohort of a genotype, while demographic genotypic fitness refers to organisms of one genotype at one moment in time. This is a major conceptual difference, although the numerical identity between demographic genotypic fitness and reporductive value for a population growing at a constant rate explains why models of life history evolution based upon reproductive value are successful. The Secondary Theorem of Natural Selection (Robertson, 1968) Predicts the selection response in mean trait value by the genetic covairance between trait and fitness. Selection on a quantitative trait is often formulated as involving the heritability and the phenotypic covariance between trait and fitness or the phenotypic selection grandien , the (partial) regression of fitness on the trait. The change in the covariance between the genotypic and the phenotypic level introduces an assumption on the additivity of fitness. The selection gradient, as a regression, focuses on differences in fitness as derived from differences in the trait. In the Secondary Theorem, trait and fitness play equivalent roles. The Secondary Theorem implies a different understanding of the process of selection from a phenotypic selection gradient and a heritability, on those two counts. Fitness might arise from the phenotype in interaction with the environment, but phenotype and fitness might both arise as consequences of development. The study of selection thus becomes the study of the biological mechanisms underlying and generating the genetic covariance between phenotype and fitness.
3036434|There are three major difficulties encountered by those dealing with the phenomenon of endemism: a semantic problem, the absence of a clear conceptual framework, and an analytical problem. First, the terms endemic and endemism are used in the literature in unclear or contradictory ways. Often neither the title nor the abstract of an article makes the meaning clear. Following the usage that tends to prevail among Anglo-American zoogeographers, a species or other taxon is regarded here as endemic to an area if it occurs only in that area. To speak of a taxon as endemic in this context without specifying an area is meaningless. Since geographic ranges of taxa change with time, time must also be specified, or at least understood. Second, a conceptual model is provided in which only changes in ranges (occuring frequently) and speciation (occuring relatively rarely) are seen to change the percentage of endemism in any given area. At a subsidiary level, many complex factors influence areographic changes and speciation. Among the more important of these are: distance from source to target area, size of area, geological age of area, time since isolation, environemntal variety and stability, and vagility and ecological tolerance of organisms being considered. These are not all independent factors. This complexity leads to the third and still largely unresolved problem namely how to analyse a global biological system involving processes on both a shorter-term ecological time scale and a longer-term evolutionary time scale.
3036435|Populations of rodents isolated on islads often show systematic differences in demography, reproduction, behavior, and morphology when compared to mainland populations. These differences, termed the island syndrome, include higher and more stable densities, better survival, increased body mass, and reduced aggressiveness, reproductive output, and dispersal. We synthesize information in the literature on island rodent populations and construct a conceptual model to explain in the island syndrome. Population density and other manifestations of the islands syndrome are predicted to increase with island isolation and to decrease with island area. The effect of isolation is direct by limiting dispersal, while the effect of area is less direct. As area increases, predators, competitors, and habitat structure increase in diversity. We suggest that the intensity or absense of density-depressing factors (primarily predation in communities comprised of only a few morphologically and trophically divergent species) is primarily responsible for the area effect and serves as a principal factor differentiating island from mainland populations of rodents. Other characteristics associated with the island syndrome may be the result of both short-term and long-term processes or responses. Short-term responses include reproductive, body size, and behavioral changes that may be phenotypic reaction norms in response to higher island densities. Thus, higher densities lead to reduced reproductive output, which then leads to greater body size. Initial behavioral differences may be owing to better survival and reduced dispersal, which result in less population turnover, greater neighbor familiarity, and less aggression. Long-term changes may be due to directional selection for reduced dispersal, increased body size in response to increased intraspecific competition, reduced reproductive output (smaller litters and delayed maturation) in response to reduced mortality schedules, and reduced aggressiveness. While the model is specific to rodent populations, the conclusions may be applicable to other systems if characteristic such as body size, vagility, and community composition are considered.
3037717|In some salamander species the retention of larval characteristics in sexually mature adults (paedomorphosis) is an alternative to metamorphosis. In many species paedomorphosis is facultative, thus offering a unique opportunity to test predictions on the evolution of life history variation. Here I expand upon a previous hypothesis ("paedomorph advantage") and present two alternative selection mechanisms ("best of a bad lot" and "dimorphic paedomorph" hypotheses) for the maintenance of facultative paedomorphosis. Each hypothesis makes specific predictions regarding the environmental conditions favoring paedomorphosis, the resulting larval growth patterns, and the fitness consequences to each morph. I evaluate each hypothesis by testing these predictions using published data. No study has conclusively determined the relative fitness of paedomorphs and metamorphs, which limits our understanding of the evolution of this polymorphism. Larval growth patterns suggest, however, that both the paedomorph advantage and the best of a bad lot hypotheses are viable alternatives for the evolutionary maintenance of facultative paedomorphosis in different species. Thus current data on facultative paedomorphosis support the premise that selection can favor the production of an environmentally induced polymorphism through more than one mechanism.
3037716|Numerous hypotheses have been proposed to account for the widespread occurrence of specialized behavior, especially with regard to food and host-related resource utilization. None of these hypotheses has been widely accepted, although most are recognized as being important for particular taxa or in certain circumstances. We discuss features of neural function as primary proximate mechanisms involved in resource specialization, which may underlie many of the other hypotheses. Diet and host breadth may be associated with the potential informational complexity of an organism's environment. The processing of complex information ultimately entails costs associated with decision time, relative efficiency of food or oviposition site-selection behavior, and concomitant exposure to potential mortality factors. Sensory focusing, through paying attention, experiential processes, or canalized sensory input decreases these costs. Increased efficiency of host finding, recognition, and discrimination can be expected as a result of a reduced probability of information overload. Such efficiencies should, in addition, decrease exposure to natural enemies.
3037715|Morphological polymorphism is widespread in colonial marine invertebrates and socia insects. The polymorphs originate as variants on the basic units that comprise the colonies and are often induced by local environmentl cues. This review examines (1) the incidence of polymorphism within invertebrate phyla and social insects, (2) the cues triggering polymorphs in the colonial marine invertebrates and the social insects, (3) the roles of heterochrony and genetic assimilation in the origins of polymorphs, and (4) the factors favoring the maintenance of polymorphism. The incidence of developmental polymorphism is high, but episodically distributed in three phyla of colonial marine invertebrates, the Cnidaria, the Bryozoa, and the Urochordata. Although polymorphism is well known in the social insects, the incidence appears lower than in some clades of colonial marine invertebrates. I suggest that the high incidence of polymorphism in some taxa of colonial marine invertebrates results from both unusually high origination rates and strong natural selection favoring division of labor in colonies where the units are isogenic. Four features of colonial marine invertebrates make them particularly susceptible to high origination rates of morphological novelties: (1) the iterated developmental process, (2) the late differentiation of the germ line, (3) the lability of signal transduction pathways, and (4) the potential for partially functioning "hopeful monsters" to be nurtured by the colony. Origination rates of morphological novelties may also be high in colonial marine invertebrates owing to a propensity for environmentally induced heterochronic shifts: All colonial invertebrates produce the units of the colony through an iterated developmental process that allows environmental stimuli to differentiate the functions and morphologies of the units from each other. A small difference in growth rate among the units can be translated into large shifts in morphology. Genetic assimilation of environmentally induced variants may be facilitated by the late time of differentiation of germ cells and the redifferentiation of germ cells in each newly budded zooid. Environmental induction is common in the triggering of polymorphic transformations. The evolutionary lability of these signal transduction pathways is indicated by the diversity of different combinations of extrinsic and intrinsic cues activating morphological switches. Despite general interest in the evolution of phenotypic plasticity, the particular selective factors maintaining these inducible polymorphisms in nature poorly known.
3036144|The functions of the little-studied avian spleen are reviewed and compared with those of its better known mammalian counterpart, which is generally larger in proportion to body size than in birds. A role in immunity similar to that in mammals is evident, but the organ's contribution to oxygen supply seems less extensive; splenic storage of erythrocytes, for example, is unrecorded for birds. The spleen is a principal organ of systemic immunity, and its importance in disease resistance is presumably accentuated by the scarcity of aan lymph nodes. The striking intraspecific viariation in size partly refelcts seasonal changes in spleen morphology and activity. Several explanations, principally based on changing oxygen demand, have been proposed previously for these periodical cycles. But seasonally small spleens could sometimes simply stem from a combination of (1) a cessation of active splenomegaly as seasonally patent infections recede, and (2) a seasonal lymphoid involution, occuring even if an individual has not recently responded to, and recovered from, and infection. Possible determinants for these and other processes are discussed from evolutionary and ecological perspectives. There is a pressing need for a thorough investigation of both hematological and immunological functions, using a phylogenetically and ecologically broad range of species, as well as modern histological and experimental techniques.
3036145|Reproductive experiences for women in today's affluent Western nations differ from those of women in hunting and gathering societies, who continue the ancestral human pattern. These differences parallel commonly accepted reproductive risk factors for cancers of the breast, endometrium and ovary. Nutritional practices, exercise requirements, and body composition are nonreproductive influences that have been proposed as additional factors affecting the incidence of women's cancers. In each case, these would further increase risk for women in industrialized countries relative to forager women. Lifestyles and reproductive patterns new from an evolutionary perspective may promote women's cancer. Calculations based on a theoretical model suggest that, to age 60, modern Western women have a breast cancer risk as much as 100 times that of preagricultural women.
2814542|Investigators of complex loci or pseudoalleles have attempted to analyze the structure and functions of the gene by the use of multiple allelic series. In the past decade a number of studies have presented stimulating findings and interpretations on the biochemical, topological, and physiological properties of genes. The historical background which led to these new discoveries is summarized and the basic problems involved are sketched. All of the present examples in Drosophila melanogaster are individually considered for their unique features as well as their similarities. The problem of the universality of pseudo-allelism is considered, with numerous examples of complexity in gene regions chosen from a wide variety of cellular forms. Special attention is also given to the interpretations of blood groups. In the microorganisms the contributions from viruses, bacteria, and the fungi are contrasted with the findings in the higher organisms. The major differences and basic similarities are pointed out in a comparative analysis of the various theories used to interpret the gene concept.
2814541|Critical reexamination of Gadow's theory of the composition of vertebrae from four pairs of arcualia is inapplicable to tetrapods and so remote from the facts that his terminology even in modified form should not be employed in tetrapods. Division of the sclerotome into anterior and posterior parts by a sclerocoel is probably primitive in tetrapods. The origins of adult vertebral structures from these sclerotome parts is always complex. Centra in tetrapods are not arch centra, but autonomous structures, primitively two per neural arch, a hypocentrum formed from perichordal tissue belonging to the cranial and caudal halves of a single sclerotome, and a pleurocentrum formed from perichordal tissue from the caudal half of one sclerotome united with perichordal tissue from the cranial half of the next succeeding sclerotome. The main body of the neural arch of tetrapods is either wholly derived from the paraneural tissue of the caudal half of a single sclerotome or from this plus paraneural tissue from the cranial half of the next succeding sclerotome. The pre-and post-zygapophysial articulations form within the cranial halves of sclerotomes. Ventral arches, when present, are formed either from tissue from both halves of a single sclerotome or from one or the other half. The neural arch is homologous through-out the tetrapoda, living and fossil. The functional centrum, if there is a departure from the primitive condition with two functional centra, may be either the hypocentrum or the pleurocentrum. The evidence suggests that the hypocentrum became the functional centrum only in one branch of the tetrapoda which died out at the end of the Triassic and that all living tetrapods-the three of Amphibia and the Amniota-retain the pleurocentrum as the functional element. It is therefore suggested that the living Amphibia, on the basis of vertebral structure, are more closely akin to the Amniota than to the Paleozoic Amphibia termed Rhachitomi and Stereopondyli.
2815817|A preliminary synthesis of evolutionary studies of certain morphological and ethological characters in the ant tribe Dacetini is given. A primary trend inferred from the study of living species is the shift from epigaeic-subarboreal to cryptic-terrestrial foraging. Possibly associated in the early stages of dacetine evolution with this shift was a trend toward oligophagous predation, resulting in extreme cases among modern forms in specialized feeding on collembolans. Secondary changes have occurred in hunting behavior and in a diversity of morphological features; these are described briefly. Reversed or, more accurately, "countercurrent" evolution has occurred in various phyletic lines in most of the characters of this morphological-ethological coadaptive system. Such changes are relatively short-range and usually involve only a few characters at a time. In at least some instances they have produced a local reversal in the overall dacetine trend to specialization, as with secondarily increased polyphagy in some species of Strumigenys. Convergence to the higher dacetine morphological type has occurred independently in several other ant tribes; in at least one case (Rhopalothrix) ethological convergence is also evident.
2815816|An attempt is made to assess the influence of evolution theory on the study of embryology by examining the assumptions held by embryologists before and after the publication of the Origin of Species, and by questioning to what degree any change in these assumption has been fostered by concepts of evolution. The assumptions considered are the following: (1) assumptions about embryology: (a) that the study of development is important; (b) that developmental phenomena are open to investigation; (c) that morphology remains of primary significance in interpretations of development; (2) assumptions about embryos: (a) that multicellular organisms are produced by eggs; (b) that development is epigenetic in so far as one step in development is a necessary condition for the next; (c) that the cell is the developmental unit of the organism; (d) that the molecule is the developmental agent within the cell. It is suggested that while Haeckel's emphasis on development in the grand evolutionary scheme of things was instrumental in stimulating the study of development and in convincing his readers that its problems are soluble, his most important influence was through his whole outlook on nature rather than through the recapitulation doctrine itself. Haeckel's emphasis on the importance of morphological criteria in support of recapitulation may have been to some extent detrimental to the immediate progress of embryology, as was his opposition to the physiological interpretations of Wilhelm is and thus to a fertile study of epigenesis. Mid-twentieth century interest in development as related to spontaneous generation and as a part of molecular biology has grown out of lines of thought separate from those of classical evolution theory. It is concluded that many of the most important working assumptions of the embryologists of today developed independently of classical evolution doctrine.
2817375|The cardiovascular system is analyzed as a feedback regulator. The controlling system is identified as being the medullary cardiovascular centers as well as those endocrine glands which operate upon the heart and blood vessels; the controlled system comprises the mechanical and gas exchanger elements of the cardiovascular system. The present analysis is restriced to the mechanical section of the controlled system. Equations are first formulated to define the steady-state operation of an isolated ventricle and of an isolated "circuit." Two ventricles are then combined with a single "open" circuit, the pulmonary, to obtain equations describing the operation of the Starling heart-lung preparation. Finally, the system is "closed" by introducing a second circuit, the systemic, and equations are obtained for the behavior of this complete mechanical system. These equations define steady-state valvues for each of the system's dependent variables (cardiac output; ventricular volumes and work; systemic arterial and venous pressures; pulmonary arterial and venous pressures; systemic and pulmonary blood volumes and their distribution between artery and vein) for any given set of values for the 14 independent variables (cardiac frequency; "strength," viscance, and compliance of each ventricle; systemic and pulmonary arteriolar resistances; systemic arterial and venous compliances; pulmonary arterial and venous compliances; and total blood volume). Comparison of predicted behavior with experimetal data indicates that the mathematical model so obtained is a useful one.
2817376|The process of aging may be regarded as the totality of those changes in structure, and consequently in function, which take place after reproductive maturity and which result in decreased adaptation to the environment. Built into the design and structure of an organism, this process is reflected in an increased probability of death. The wellknown Gompertz equation describing increasing mortality with age has given rise to a number of theories which are shown to be, in one or more points, inadequate and inconsistent with established data.-All changes affecting the fitness of organisms are basically changes in the kinds, amounts, or arrangements of molecules and cells. Changes with age arise either from stochastic changes or from genetic processes, and should satisfy four criteria: universality, intrisicality, progessiveness, and deleteriousness. The evolutionary origin of the aging process and the nature of the possible sources of instability afford evidence that there are multiple causes of aging. It is not at present possible to assign relative weights to the various processes.-The current thesis that the life-shortening of experimental animals exposed to ionizing radiation is attributable to an acceleration of the normal aging process is evaluated in terms of the sources and mechanisms of damage. It is concluded that time and radiation are unlikely to produce their de-adaptive effects by similar mechanisms because (1) aging is primarily an effect on postmitotic cells, whereas at low dosages radiation primarily affects dividing cell lines; (2) radiation damage is primarily genetic, whereas time produces many kinds of changes most of which are probably not genetic; (3) the lives of some experimental animals are not shortened by large doses of radiation; and (4) radiation dosages sufficient to double the rate of mortality increase produce a much greater than two-fold increase in genetic effects (mutation).
2816519|A formal solution of the main problems concerning the origination of life is attempted, adopting as fundamental axiom the plausible assumption that it was a spontaneous, natural sequence of "most probable" events. Survival by natural selection is a particular example of a most probable event, and therefore operated at all stages of the origination. True evolutionary novelties have been most probable responses to new environmental conditions, and may have become rerer as the of change of the causal conditions decreased. The most probable behavior of living organisms, as "open" systems, differs from that of classical, closed systems. The steady state, characteristic of such open systems, involves the apparent paradox of a stable, self-perpetuating "fabric," maintained by cyclic metabolic activity. The stability is dynamic. Theories on the origination of life frequently consider only the fabric and neglect the metabolic aspect of the system. This is facilitated by several factors and can lead to errors, particularly in scales of rate and magnitude. A slow, protracted acquisition of new materials, even represented by a single molecule of its species in some instances, is often postulated. It is more probable that all significant materials and reactions were acquired early, panglobally and in quantity, and that subsequent evolution was restricted (a) to most probable innovations, as indicated above, and (b) to less fundamental taxonomic changes, depending in part on changes in the biological environment itself. In general there has been biochemical simplification during evolution, rather than the converse. An "ametabolic" view leads to the questionable conclusions that there were originally no autotrophs, no photoactivated endergonic synthesis, no need for solar energy, and no decay, that the initial heterotrophs could feed indefinitely on a limited store of pristine organic compounds, and that generally reducing conditions prevailed on the early earth. This view fails to recognize that the general level of oxidation is less important than the maintenance of a potential difference in free energy between organism and environment. It also tends to overlook the relative rapidity of the circulation of organic material through living systems, and the evolutionary implications of this. The cycle is not related to the diurnal or the seasonal cycles of solar energy influx. It is a sine qua non for continued life. Any serious "bottlenecks" or "stockpiling" of materials could be disastrous. There has been automatic selection in favor of the cyclically interdependent autotrophic and heterotrophic activities, since indirectly each is self-promoting. This has led to increasingly rapid circulation, but with limiting factors. The rapid circulation of material, manifested as an intense competition for it, indicates that material, and not energy, has probably always been the limiting factor in vital activity and evolution on earth. In this open system, energy supply is probably not a serious problem and endergonic reactions are not highly improbable. Molecular aggregation, i.e. synthesis, and similar phenomena at the higher, organismal level-ingestion, syngamy, etc.-may be most probable processes in such systems, since they could thus absorb surplus energy. Selective aggregation is often observed in both inorganic and organic systems. The formation of "coacervates," pristine discrete organisms, is probably a spontaneous process of this type. Losses by wear and tear are an inherent, most probable property of any system and an effective, statistical replacement was a first essential for living systems. With the emergence of discrete organisms more specific replacements became necessary. The phenomenon of death also appeared, as a discontinuous macro-loss, and reproduction and growth emerged as the appropriate replacement. The various "work-functions" of living organisms are basically similar and have much in common with the aggregation-ingestion types of most probable processes.
2816520|A system of broad classification which recognized a plant kingdom of four divisions and an animal kingdom of ten to fifteen phyla was for many years stable and standardized. Significant changes have occurred, or are now proposed. Among these, three major lines of development are discussed: a. Classification of the algae has been fundamentally revised; seven or more algal series are distinguished primarily by characteristics of cells. The phylum concept, long established in zoological classification, has been brought into botanical classification in the systems of Pascher (1931) and Tippo (1942), in which the major algal series, the Bryophyta, and the Tracheophyta are regarded as phyla. b. Many authors have advocated recognition of kingdom of lower organisms, to meet the difficulty of dividing these between the plant and animal kingdoms. Two major possibilities for such a third kingdom are the Protista of Haeckel (1866, 1894), essentially identified with the unicellular organisms, and the Proctoctista of Hogg (1860) and Copeland (1947, 1956), comprising the nucleate, "acellular" organisms including protozoa, algae, and fungi. c. Study of the fungi has led to the view that these are probably derived from colorless flagellates as a line of evolution independent of true plants. The bacteria are better regarded as an ancient complex of many nutritive types, than as a group derived from the blue-green algae. In natural communities bacteria and fungi together form a major functional group (reducers) distinct from the green plants (producers) and animals (consumers). It is consequently appropriate to conceive the broad relations of the living world in terms of three modes of nutrition and directions of evolution rather than two-the photosynthetic of the green plants, the ingestive of the animals, and the absorptive of the bacteria and fungi. These three directions of evolution appear on three major levels of organization-the Monera, or bacteria and blue-green algae, which lack nuclear membranes; the Eunucleata, or unicellular organisms with nuclear membranes; and the multicellular and multinucleate higher plants, animals, and fungi. On this basis four kingdoms are here proposed: The Protista, or unicellular organisms; the Plantae, or multicellular plants; the Fungi; and the Animalia or multicellular animals. Among the Protista the subkingdoms Monera and Eunucleata and distinguished. Among the higher organisms the less widely successful lines of evolution into the multicellular and multinucleate conditions are recognized as the subkingdoms Rhodophyta and Phaeophyta among the plants, Myxomycota among the fungi, and Parazoa and Mesozoa among the animals. Other alternatives to the traditional two-kingdom system are discussed. Despite the general acceptance of the two-kingdom system, these alternatives have value in expressing current understanding of the broad relations among organisms. They should be judged in comparison with the two-kingdom system and with one another for their relative success in embodying these relations in a "natural" classification.
2818703|Three plant communities or assemblages of plants-the vascular plants of an oakpine forest, the lichens of that forest, and herbs of an old field-have been studied after being exposed experimentally to chronic gamma irradiation. Several kinds of changes in the communities have resulted, including: (1) in all three communities irradiation reduced community structure toward the lowest strata or growth-forms of the community; (2) dominant species replaced one another along the gradient of radiation intensity producing population curves similar to those found along natural environmental gradients; (3) significant changes in productivity occurred; (4) species-diversity decreased with increased exposure to radiation; (5) in respect to various tests used in the study, increasing community sensitivity to irradiation was in the sequence: forest lichens, old-field-herbs, forest vascular plants. Radiation effects on communities relate to evolutionary and ecological phenomena of broad interest, including nuclear volume effects on radiation sensitivity, stature and evolutionary level of plants, population processes determining community composition, and relations of communities to succession and natural environmental gradients.
2818702|Seven general kinds of life cycles are known among crickets; they differ chiefly in overwintering (diapause) stage and number of generations per season, or diapauses per generation. Some species with broad north-south ranges vary in these respects, spannig wholly or in part certain of the gaps between cycles and suggesting how some of the differences orgininated. Species with a particular cycle have predictable responses to photoperiod and temperature regimes that affect behavior, development time, wing length, boyd size, and other characteristics. Some polymorphic tendencies also correlate with habitat permanence, and some are influenced by population density. Genera and subfamilies with several kinds of life cycles usually have proportionately more species in temperate regions than those with but one or two cycles, although numbers of species in all widely distributed groups diminish toward the higher latitudes. The tendency of various field cricket species to become double-cycled at certain latitudes appears to have resulted in speciation without geographic isolation in at least one case. Intermediate steps in this allochronic speciation process are illustrated by North American and Japanese species; the possibility that this process has also occurred in others kinds of temperate insects is discussed.
2819013|A review of the Australo-Papuan mammal fauna shows it to be composed of four monotreme, about 145 marsupial, and about 214 placental species. Endemism is high in every group except bats. Virtually all major ways of life (except those of rodents and bats) have been filled by marsupials, and their great diversity of body forms reflects this. Convergence with placental couterparts on other continents may involve the whole body (in the superficial sense) but is usually restricted to parts of the body or sets of structures. Australia provides the best example of evolution and radiation in an isolated fauna to be found among mammals. The placental rodents and bats occupy essentially the same kinds of niches as on other continents, and they show virtually no striking structural novelties. This confirms that the rodents, at least, are late colonizers, despite the degree of ecological radiation achieved. The pre-Tertiary Australian fauna was presumably made up of monotremes and ancestral marsupials. No fossils are known, however, before the end of the Oligocene or early Miocene, by which time the contemporary families had differentiated (Notoryctes, the marsupial mole, however, is unknown as a fossil). Only one form known from the early Miocene (Wynyardia, Wynyardidae) is presumed to be extinct before the Pleistocene. One family (Diprotodontidae) and two sub-families (Sthenurinae, Thylacoleoninae) became extinct in early Recent, or mid-Recent times. The contemporary mammal fauna of Australia is reviewed with respect to the biology and ecology of the major types, fossil history, radiation, and speciation.
2819014|Of the three southern continents, South America was more isolated during the Tertiary than Africa, less isolated than Australia. Its record of Cenozoic mammalian life is better than that of either. This record suggests that around the beginning of the Cenozoic, South America received a few wait immigrants-marsupials, edentates, ungulates-that reached the continent across a water barrier. The source area was probably Central America, which formed a tropical North American peninsula until near the end of Tertiary time. A few later wait immigrants reached the continent across the water barrier-rodents in the later part of the Eocene, primates then or in the early Oligocene, and procyonids perhaps late in the Miocene. From the descendants of these few immigrants a balanced fauna evolved that was strikingly different in composition from those of other continents. The evolution of the various groups composing it is briefly presented and discussed. At the end of the Tertiary the isolation of the continent ended with the establishment of the Isthmus of Panama. Faunal interchange between North and South America then began and is still going on. Most of the northern participants in the interchange penetrated deeply into South America. The southern participants, advancing into a continent subjected to periodic continental glaciations, were less successful, the majority of them not penetrating beyond the tropical area. Competition and extinction during the faunal interchange went on mainly among the carnivores, the southern marsupials being replaced by the northern placentals. The spectacular extinctions, involving mainly large mammals of both northern and southern ancestry, came at the end of the Pleistocene; the arrival of man was probably a major factor.
2819074|An analysis of behavioral, neurological, and biochemical research indicates that the sensory systems of the avian embryo become functional in the following order: (1) non-visual photic sensitivity; (2) tactile sensitivity; (3) vestibular sensitivity; (4) proprioception; (5) audition; (6) vision. There is no firm information about the onset of gustation and olfaction in the avian embryo. With the possible exception of vision, there would appear to be adequate stimulation during the normal course of incubation to excite all the sensory systems. Whether such stimulation actually plays a role in regulating species-typical sensory and perceptual development is not known. While it seems doubtful that depriving the embryo of relevant stimulation, or prematurely exposing it to such stimulation, would alter the absolute sequence in which the sensory systems develop, such a manipulation might exert some effect on the relative time of onset of the particular sensory system involved, and a major effect on the development of adaptive perceptual discrimination abilities within the modality thus affected. An experiment involving sub-total auditory deprivation demonstrated in duck embryos that normally occurring auditory stimulation is essential to the development of species-specific auditory perception. Although partially deprived embryos were not capable of making the usual perceptual discriminative response, they were capable of hearing. Similarly deprived embryos were able to make the species-specific auditory discrimination after hatching, indicating that the sub-total deprivation induces a lag in the development of an embryo's discriminative ability. These findings are consonant with the view that exposure to relevant stimulation plays an important role in regulating the development of adaptive perceptual discrimination abilities in the avian embryo.
2819073|Both growth hormone and insulin are needed for growth in mammals. Evidence indicates that these hormones increase amino acid transport into cells, and it is hypothesized in this review that this transport may at the very least be "Permissive" to a sustained increase in the rate of protein synthesis mediated by these hormones. When animals are pre-treated with these hormones, the ability of their ribosomes to incorporate labeled amino acids into peptide linkage is stimulated. While incorporation of precursors into RNA, probably including messenger RNA, may be stimulated, it would appear that the lesser amino-acid-incorporating ability of ribosomes from liver of hypophysectomized rats or from the heart of diabetic rats is not due wholly to insufficient messenger RNA, since the deficiency persist in the presence of exogenous messenger RNA. It is most likely that a number of steps in amino acid protein anabolism are stimulated by these hormones.
2817824|Africa and the Oriental Region are probably the areas from which mammals radiated into the rest of the world. Both regions have rich and diverse mammalian faunas. That of Africa, composed purely of placentals, is most closely related to the Oriental fauna and has very little in common with the faunas of the other southern continents. About one quarter of the families are endemic. Approximate numbers of species and superspecies are given for each family. Africa has about one-quarter of the mammal species of the world; rodents, bats, insectivores, artiodactyls, carnivores and primates, in that order, are the largest groups. Endemism at the generic level is high except in the bats. The main features of speciation, radiation, ecology and geographical distribution are discussed for each order. Outstandig features are the radiation of insectivores with the evolution of three endemic families, (the aquatic otter shrews, subterranean golden moles and bipedal elephant shrews); the great diversity of rodents, with endemic families resembling "flying" squirrels (anomalurids), moles (bathyergids), hyraxes (ctenodactylids), cavies (thrynomyds) and Kangaroos (pedetes); extensive speciation in the Viverridae, and unparalleled radiation in the Bovidae to fill all available herbivorous niches. Regional faunas of the main biotic zones (Lowland Forest; Southern and Northern Savanna; Southe West, Somali and Sudanese Arid; and the Abyssinian Highlands) are described. The basic dichotomy is between forest and non-forest froms. A consideration of centers of endemism, mainly in the lowland forest and arid zones, leads to the conclusion that they were isolated as a result of fluctuations in climate and the resulting displacement of vegetation zones during the Quarternary. The faunas of Madagascar and of the Comor, Seychelle and Mascarene Islands are described. Madagascar has a peculiar, ancient, typically unbalanced, island fauan with African affinities. The other islands have small faunas, composed only of bats in the case of the farthest ones.
2817822|The isolated southern continents, occupying approximately equivalent latitudinal zones and broadly comparable as living areas, provide an unusual opportunity for a comparative study of mammalian evolution. Each began the Age of Mammals with different mammalian raw material, and each has had a long history of evolution in isolation. This was interrupted by major faunal interchanges only rarely-Africa three times (?), South America once-all other colonization being adventitious. The latest paleontological data strongly supports the contention that each continent received its mammal fauna from the north and not by any direct southern connection. THis is notwithstanding some similarities in the floras and invertebrate faunas of South America and Australia, and fascinating new evidence that Antarctica supported forests in the middle Tertiary. The latest paleomagnetic data on shifting continents confirms that any major sundering occurred in the early Mesozoic, prior to the evolution of mammals.
2817823|The African continent has long been regarded as a "refuge" for the survival of archaic forms of life, but in recent years evidence has been accumulating which serves to emphasize the essentially indigenous nature of the living and extinct mammalian faunas. This paper discusses the major fossil localities and their faunas against a background of new paleogeographic studies. The latter show that through most of geological time Arabia has been basically part of the African continent; the Red Sea rift developed as a terrestrial trough in the Oligocene, was invaded from the Mediterranean in the Miocene, and connected through to the Indian Ocean in the Pliocene. The pre-Mediterranean Tethys Sea cut Arabo-Africa off from Eurasia during much of the Mesozoic and Tertiary. Temporary land of island connections occurred during the Paleocene elevation of the Arabo-African block, during the late Oligocene orogenesis in the Atlas and the Alps, and again at the end of the Miocene. At these times there was opportunity for limited faunal interchange between Arabo-Africa and Eurasia. From a Paleocene ferungulate stock, already possessing early anthracotheres and hyaenodonts, the proboscideans, hyracoids, and sirenians developed as new elements in Africa. Insectivores and primates must also have been part of this early fauna. In the late Oligocene there was an export of African stocks to Eurasia in exchange for importation of some perissodactyls, fissiped carnivores, and perhaps basic suid, tragulid, and palaeo-merycid-bovid elements. Lesser interchanges took place at the end of the Miocene, contributing African forms to Eurasia and admitting hipparionids to Africa. During the Pliocene great diversification took place among the African Bovidae and Siodae in particular, but the Ethiopian region was effectively isolated from Eurasia until the end of the period. However, Arabia became firmly linked to Asia and probably furnished much African material to that continent. An attempt is made to show by means of diagrams the apparent duration of African evolution for each mammalian family and to suggest the time and geographic origin or destination of imports and exports. The role Africa as an important center of evolution and source for diffusion into the Palearctic region is apparent.
2816741|Phase change sometimes involves a relatively abrupt switch in potential of apical meristems in higher plants from a juvenile to an adult type of growth. The two growth forms are highly persistent in different parts of the same individual and in clonally propagated offspring. Reversion to the juvenile condition occasionally occurs in buds on adult-type shoots, and invariably takes place in sexual reproduction. It is pointed out that counterparts of phase change, expressed in a wide variety of ways, are common among both plants and animals; structures arise in the development of all organisms with characteristics that are not merely functional adaptations but are innate and self-maintaining in mitosis. Phase change is to be considered, therefore, as illustrating a general aspect of cell heredity and variation; it is singular only in the distinctness with which the alteration in type of growth may be phenotypically expressed. The mechanism whereby such characteristics are maintained and perpetuated in somatic cells is an unsolved problem. There is now limited evidence, some of it also indirect, suggesting that the chromosomes are the site of such discontinuous and potentially reversible ontogenetic changes. This evidence is briefly reviewed in terms of a hypothesis in which it is assumed that in addition to the genes, which are stable, the chromosomes also contain self-perpetuating accessory materials that undergo paramutation in an orderly way in somatic cells as an essential aspect of a nucleo-cytoplasmic system of morphogenetic determination.
2816742|Consideration of the organization, ontogeny, and orientation of tapeworms, and comparison with the structure and development of other invertebrates, support the opinion that the cestode is an individual rather than a colony and that the transformation of the oncosphere to a procercoid or cysticercoid is a true metamorphosis in which there is a reversal of the antero-posterior axis.
2814915|Hybrid sterility is defined as the inhibition or suppression of the reproductive capacity of F
2814916|Quantitative studies of natality, mortality, and age-distributions of anuran populations are reviewed. Specific problems involve estimates of (1) the age of individuals, (2) age-specific fertility, (3) natality of populations, (4) larval survival, and (5) age-specific post-metamorphic survival. Some possible differences in the comparative demography of north temperate and neotropical anurans are suggested.
2815096|The history of our knowledge of the X chromosome of man is reviewed with appropriate reference to the contributions made through study of other forms. It is noteworthy that sex-linkage was first observed in man. X-linkage has been established for about 60 traits in man. Unlike a majority of autosomal traits in man, most of the observed X-linked traits are recessives (or incomplete recessives). The genetic map of the X chromosome is known only in the most sketchy manner but is likely to be filled in rapidly in the next few years through the use of newly discovered markers, such as the Xg
2816615|Chemotropism and chemotaxis have been demostrated in a variety of vegetative and reproductive cell types in both higher and lower plants and animals. None of the naturally occurring chemotropic or chemotactic agents, nor the mechanisms of their action, have been identified. Nevertheless, certain common characteristics can be noted. Based on parallels which have been observed in various instances of chemotropism and chemotaxis, as well as on mechanisms of action which have been proposed, some suggestions are made regarding potentially useful areas of futher investigation into problems of mechanisms and of comparative physiology of chemotropic and chemotactic substances.
2816614|The origin of land vertebrates is a constant subject of discussion. Recent findings in zoology and paleontology (Latimeria, Ichthyostega, Hesperoherpeton, etc.) have supplied many new arguments, but the results arrived at by various authorities show considerable differences. The author is convinced, however, that present knowledge concerning the evolution of tetrapody can be arranged in a harmonious picture. This is the aim of the review. It is concluded that all the evidence speaks in favor of a monophyletic origin of land vertebrates. Among them, the important differences between amphibians on the one side and the reptiles and their descendants on the other are emphasized. The probable sequence with which the various tetrapod features have accumulated, the reasons which prevented the emergence of terrestrial forms from fishes from being ever repeated, and the evolution of the amphibian ontogeny are discussed.
2826078|The selection pressures imposed by invertebrate are of primary significance in the evolution of cladoceran life histories. Small-sized cladoceran species are vulnerable to invertebrates throughout their lives, but minimize the adverse effects of juvenile mortality by producing relatively large offspring, which reach maturity at an early age. Large-sized species are capable of attaining sizes which cannot be handled by invertebrates, and therefore maximize early growth to an invulnerable size. The large planktonic species and some small littoral forms reach an optimal foraging size within their lifetimes and subsequently minimize growth. However, the emphasis on an early production of relatively large young by the small-sized planktonic species prevents them from attaining their optimal foraging size until very late in life; some species apparently never reach it. Nevertheless, these small-sized species grow continously towards their optimal foraging size. They decrease their vulnerability to invertebrates while they simultaneously increase their exposure to vertebrates.
2826077|Two factors in reptile sex determination have been studied: (1) the presence or absence of heteromorphic sex chromosomes, and (2) the influence of temperature. Recognizable sex chromosomes are common in snakes and lizards, but are apparently rare in turtles and absent in crocodilians and the tuatara. Temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) is common in turtles and has been reported in two lizards and alligators; however, data on TSD are available for few non-turtle species. Present findings on TSD suggest that (1) temperature actually determines sex rather than simply causing differential mortality, and (2) temperature controls sex determination in nature as well as in the laboratory. Only one study, however, has convincingly demonstrated the latter. Sex determination by nest temperature is proposed to interfere with the evolution of sex chromosomes and live-bearing (ovoviviparity); a negative correlation should thus be observed between TSD and sex chromosomes/live-bearing. Present evidence is consistent with these predictions. Possible selective advantages and disadvantages of the different sex-determined mechanisms are discussed, and an attempt is made to deduce their ancestries.
2823921|Most bacterial movement is the result of the action of a subcellular structure, the flagellar organelle. Bacterial flagella propel the cell by rotating, and this rotation is regulated in response to information transmitted by chemoreceptors on the surface of the cell. Rotation is driven by a motor anchored in the cell membrane. To understand such processes as the assembling of flagellar organelles, energy transduction to produce flagellar rotation, and the integration of sensory information necessary for chemotaxis, one prerequisite is the determination of the architecture of flagella. Emphasis is given here to experimental approaches using Escherichia coli and Salmonella in order to identify the flagellar components and to determine how these components are used to construct the functional organelle. The purification of apparently intact organelles has revealed an intricate structure composed of at least 11 polypeptide components. Genetic techniques have been developed which enable the identification of the components of the flagellar system. More than 35 genes which are necessary for flagellar function have been defined in E. coli, and the gene products of 17 of these genes have been identifie. From such genetic studies, it is apparent that the flagellar system is complex and includes many elements in addition to those found in the intact flagellar structures purified from the cell membrane. Proteins required for energy and sensory transduction have been identified and located in the cytoplasm and cell membrane. Since these components are not integral parts of the isolated organelle, it is clear that flagellar movement requires the interaction of several functionally distinct and spatially separate systems. The organelle appears to be constructed in discrete stages consisting of the sequential association of individual components. As with bacteriophage assembly, some flagellar protein function not as structural components, but to regulate the assembly of the organelle. A structural variation is found in Salmonella, which have te ability to alternately express one of two components of the flagellar filament. The unique genetic control mechanism regulating this structural variation is discussed.
2823922|The basic chromatin fiber is composed of a tandem array of nucleosomes, adjacement nucleosomes being separated by a variable amount of DNA. In vivo, this fiber is folden to form a higher-order fiber with a diameter of 200 to 300 A. The distribution of nucleosomes within the higher-order fiber has been analyzed in negatively stained preparations of chromatin fibers released from metaphase cells or interphase nuclei by mechanical disruption. The fiber appears to be composed of discrete packing domains in each of which there is a high density of closely apposed nucleosomes; within these regions several discrete packing patterns are observed. Adjacent domaisn are connected by regions of the fiber which are thinner and contain a lower density of nucleosomes. From these observations we suggest that the 200 to 300 A fiber is mosaic and that domains differ from each other in composition so as to confer sequence specificity upon the structure. In addition, compositional differences may have relevance to the functional state of the underlying genes; thus, higher order structure of a region is related to its functional state. Above this level organization, studies on the early stages of chromatin folding in meiotic prophase suggest that 200 to 300 A fibers are organized as loops which emanate from the longitudinal axis of the chromosome, in a manner consistent with a model for mitotic chromosome folding by means of radial loop formation. Active ribosomal RNA genes are identifiable in these preparations and appear to be organized in a similar fashion; each active gene appears to comprise a loop of chromatin.
2823918|For much of its history, molecular biology has concerned itself with the implications and consequences of the "Central Dogma" (Crick, 1958): DNA  RNA  protein. This "pathway" is of course atypical in that it describes, not chemical interconversions, but rather the flow of information from gene to product. It has been only recently appreciated, however, that in those cases where the final gene product is an RNA molecule, this pathway is not simply truncated. To the contrary, in virtually every instance for which sufficient data are now available, it is found that the RNA transcript is subject to a series of reactions in which the primary gene product undergoes nucleotide additions, deletions, and modifications. The set of biosynthetic reactions that intervene between transciption of the gene and production of the mature functional product is collectively referred to as RNA processing. It now appears that the existence of these complex biosynthetic events cannot always be adequately explained by the necessity to overcome otherwise insurmountable topological or energetic constraints: the final product can, at least in some cases, "self-assemble." The genesis of transfer RNA by this indirect route appears to insure the delivery of a functional product, at the right rate, at the right time. We suggest, moreover, that this process is primarily determined by recognition of some of the same structural elements in the precursor that are required for the function of the mature tRNA molecule.
2823920|Historically a gap has existed between the study of the one-dimensional organization of hereditary information in genes, and of the three-dimensional organization of macromolecules in biological structures. In this article we describe progress in closing this gap through the genetic and biochemical analysis of the assemby of the icosahedral shells of spherical viruses, a class of subcellular strucutres whose subunit organization is relatively well understood. The genes specifying the proteins required for capsid assembly have been identified for many bacterial viruses. By using mutants defective in these genes, it has been possible to identify intermediates in shell morphogenesi and DNA condensation, and to unravel the different levels of the genetic control of macromolecualr assembly processes. In general, a precursor shell or procapsid is first constructed, and the DNA is subsequently coiled within it. The construction of a closed shell poses as difficult a problem for a virus as for an architect. In the well-studied bacteriophage P22 of Salmonella typhimurium, the construction of the procapsid requires the interaction of about 200 molecules of the gene-8 scaffolding protein with 420 molecules of the gene-5 coat protein, forming a double-shelled structure with the scaffolding protein on the inside. Once completed, procapsids undergo substantial alteration in the course of encapsulating the viral DNA. In P22, the initiation of DNA packaging triggers the exit of all of the scaffolding molecules from within the capsid, probably through the coat-protein lattice. These released molecules are re-ulitized, interacting with newly synthesized coat subunits to form further procapsids. Thus, the scaffolding protein functions catalytically in capsid assembly. All of the well-studied DNA phages require a scaffolding protein species for procapsid assembly, though their properties vary. Purified coat and scaffolding subunits by themselves show little tendency to polymerize, and are stable as monomers in solution. Upon mixing together under the appropriate conditions, however, the proteins copolymerize into double shells. Their interaction with each other appears to be critical for efficient assembly; this interaction probably occurs on the edges of growing shells, and not among subunits in solution. We have termed this kind of process, which we previously described in T4 tail morphogenesis, self-regulated assembly. The subunits are synthesized in a nonreactive form and are activated, not in solution, but upon incorporation into the growing substrate structure. A number of further transformations of the capsid subunits occur only within the organized structrue and not as free subunits. Thus, aspects of the genetic information controlling the assembly process are not fully expressed at the level of the properties of protein subunits, but become manifest only through interactions with other proteins, or at a higher level, after completion of the correct organized structure.
2823919|The Sequence of steps in bacteriophage T4 assembly has been elucidated by using a combination of genetic, biochemical, and ultrastructural techniques. The phage head, tail, and tail fibers are assembled via independent pathways, and then are joined to form the complete virus. Current knowledge of these three patways is reviewed briefly. Two general insights emerging from phage assembly studies are (1) a realization of the importance of kinetic controls, and (2) recognition of the role of nonstructural accessory proteins in assembly. Controls of protein association rates by a proposed heterocooperativity mechanism can account for the strict sequential ordering of steps in complex self-assembly pathways such as that of T4 tail assembly. The same mechanism can explain how proteins capable of polymorphic assembly are induced to form correct structures rather than aberrant ones of similar stability. Nonstructural accessory proteins provide additional means for enhancing rates of interactions of specific structural proteins by mechanisms that may be analogous to those of enzyme catalysis. The insights gained from bacteriophage assembly probably apply to organellogenesis in general.
2823917|There is considerable difficulty in understanding how the plant is formed out of the seed or any animal out of the semen....[Aristotle, On the Generation of Animals.]
2823792|The effects of the parasitoid on the development, behavior, physiology, and morphology of the host have been described and often attributed to the feeding larvae within the host. It has become increasingly clear that these effects on the host are often due to factors injected into the host by the ovipositing female. This realization, along with the realization that the host is often dramatically altered after oviposition by the parasitoid, has given rise to the concept of host regulation as one of the key aspects of parasitoidism. The physiological and biochemical changes that occur after parasitoidism are described. These include paralysis; changes in growth, feeding, and development; changes in hemolymph solutes, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, nitrogen metabolism and excretion; as well as changes in select tissues including the endocrine and reproductive system of the host. The sources of the factors that may elicit these changes are discussed and include the role of the adult female, her progeny, and associated teratocytes.
2823791|Metastasis, the spread of neoplastic cells from a primary site to distant organs, is responsible for the majority of cancer deaths. Dissemination of malignant cells throughout the body and their survival to form secondary growths is a complicated process dependent on both host and tumor properties. Although a primary tumor may release many cells, only a few survive the interactions with host defense mechanisms to yield distant cancer growths. In recent years a considerable body of evidence has accumulated which suggests that the survival of these few cells is not a random event. Rather, it represents the selection of a pre-existent metastatic subpopulation of tumor cells within the parental population. Such a process has profound implications in determining approaches to therapy and to the elucidation of those tumor-cell properties which are responsible for successful metastatic spread. These implications are discussed within the framework of what is at present known about the pathogenesis of cancer metastasis.
2824738|The review discusses some consequences of the widespread partial uncoupling of the reproduction of organelle DNA from of nuclear DNA. I propose that in certain circumstances natural selection favors intraorganismal reproductive competition between different varieties of organelle DNA, and in other circumstances selection favors competition between organelle and nuclear DNA. Evidence is marshalled to show that such competition occurs in nature. Situations which would lead to selection for both kinds of competition are described and are shown to be relatively common. A number of examples of apparent competition of predicted kinds are presented. Several testable predictions are made from the theory, and it is shown that the available data are in accord with them. Similar kinds of reproductive competition are predicted to occur in some other symbiotic relationships, and possible examples are presented for two of them: bacterial plasmids and endozoic algae.
2824739|This review is concerned with the morphegenetic interactions which occur during the development of the so-called epithelio-mesenchymal organs. The nature of the mesenchymal requirement for epithelial growth and morphogenesis is presented. The curren status of cell-cell communication which occurs during morphogenetic interactions, as well as the role of intracellular and extracelluar components in morphogenesis, are considered. Particular attention is given to a detailed analysis of the possible role that cell proliferation may play in determining morphogenetic patterns, an aspect that has hitherto received little consideration. Finally, a model for morphogenesis is proposed which endeavors to account for the regulatory roles previously assigned to the intracellular and extracellular components of epithelio-mesenchymal organs, and which includes a role for cell proliferation in this developmental process.
2664127|Traits correlated with male mating success are likely to be subject to sexual selection. Sexually selected characters are thought to be costly to develop and maintain. If males do not vary their investment in sexual traits in relation to their ability to bear the costs, there should be a negative relationship between male longevity or survival and the expression of sexual traits. In particular, a negative relationship is predicted by pure Fisherian models for the evolution of sexual ornaments. The same should also be true for traits that evolve via pleiotropy (e.g., due to sensory exploitation or bias) with no subsequent evolution of condition dependent modification. We collected information on the relationship between traits correlated with male mating rate and estimates of adult male survivorship or life span. In total we obtained 122 samples from 69 studies of 40 species of bird, spider, insect, and fish. In a meta-analysis we calculated the average sample size weighted correlation between trait expression and adult survival. Analyses at the level of samples, studies, and species revealed significant positive relationships (r = 0.08, 0.10, and 0.13, respectively; all P < 0.001). The unweighted correlation at the species level was r = 0.24. In general, males with larger ornaments or weapons, greater body size, or higher rates of courtship showed greater survivorship or longevity. This finding is inconsistent with pure Fisherian models or other models that do not incorporate condition or quality dependent trait expression. It suggests that male investment in sexually selected traits is not fixed but varies in relation to the ability to pay the underlying costs of expressing these characters. Hence, many secondary sexual characters are likely to be condition dependent in their expression.
3071179|Fitness varies nonlinearly with environmental variables such as temperature, water availability, and nutrition, with maximum fitness at intermediate levels between more stressful extremes. For environmental agents that are highly toxic at exposures that substantially exceed background levels, fitness is maximized at concentrations near zero-a phenomenon often referred to as hormesis. Two main components are suggested: (1) background hormesis, which derives from the direct adaptation of organisms to their habitats; and (2) stress-derived hormesis, which derives from metabolic reserves that are maintained as an adaptation to environmental stresses through evolutionary time. These reserves provide protection from lesser correlated stresses. This article discusses illustrative examples, including ethanol and ionizing radiation, aimed at placing hormesis into an ecological and evolutionary context. A unifying approach comes from fitness-stress continua that underlie responses to abiotic variables, whereby selection for maximum metabolic efficiency and hence fitness in adaptation to habitats in nature underlies hormetic zones. Within this reductionist model, more specific metabolic mechanisms to explain hormesis are beginning to emerge, depending upon the agent and the taxon in question. Some limited research possibilities based upon this evolutionary perspective are indicated.
3071178|The studies of Clausen, Keck, and Hiesey (CKH) have been widely cited as exemplars of ecotypic differentiation in textbooks and in the primary literature. However, the scope of their findings and achievements is significantly greater than this. In this paper we analyze the research program of CKH, highlighting their major findings during the years when the modern synthesis of evolution was taking shape. That synthesis, curiously, drew little from their examples, although their studies at the Carnegie Institution represent conceptual and methodological work that is still relevant. The works of CKH not only embodied the principles of the nascent synthesis, but often provided needed supporting data. Their classic work, especially on Achillea and Potentilla, produced abundant evidence on population differentiation of many quantitative traits and plant phenotypes, as well as demonstrating the now commonly reported distinction between environmental and genetic determination of traits. Their ecological genetic investigations of quantitative traits in plants were in sharp contrast to contemporaneous animal studies on adaptation that focused on discrete polymorphisms-with correspondingly little influence of the environment on phenotypic expression. Of utmost importance was the demonstration by CKH of adaptive differentiation by natural selection and their approaches to understanding the genetic structure of populations.
3071177|This article surveys progress in Darwinian medicine since 1991. Evolutionary thinking has been providing an increasing flow of fresh ideas into medical science, ideas that would not be suggested by other perspectives. Recent contributions have shed new light on the evolution of virulence, of antibiotic resistance, of oocytic atresia, of menopause, of the timing of the expression of genetic disease, of links between mate choice and disease resistance, and of genomic conflict between mother and fetus over resource provisioning. An important consequence of changes from the environment of evolutionary adaptedness concerns reproductive cancers; the incidence of reproductive cancers may be linked to changes in the frequency of menstruation in postindustrial societies. Other intriguing developments include some unanticipated and undesirable consequences of good hygiene, hope from an unexpected quarter for progress on nerve and muscle regeneration, evolutionary interpretations of mental disease, and insights from functional genomics into the nature of tradeoffs. The application of evolutionary thinking to problems in medical research and practice has thus yielded an abundant and growing harvest of insights. Some are well founded, others remain speculative. The field is moving from an initial phase dominated by speculation and hypothesis formation into a more rigorous phase of experimental testing of explicit alternatives. Currently the most promising areas, those in which experimental rigor can be applied efficiently, include experimental evolution and functional genomics. The pioneers can be proud of what they have set in motion.
2664003|Cultivation of fungus for food originated about 45-65 million years ago in the ancestor of fungus-growing ants (Formicidae, tribe Attini), representing an evolutionary transition from the life of a hunter-gatherer of arthropod prey, nectar, and other plant juices, to the life of a farmer subsisting on cultivated fungi. Seven hypotheses have been suggested for the origin of attine fungiculture, each differing with respect to the substrate used by the ancestral attine ants for fungal cultivation. Phylogenetic information on the cultivated fungi, in conjunction with information on the nesting biology of extant attine ants and their presumed closest relatives, reveal that the attine ancestors probably did not encounter their cultivars-to-be in seed stores (von Ihering 1894), in rotting wood (Forel 1902), as mycorrhizae (Garling 1979), on arthropod corpses (von Ihering 1894) or ant faeces in nest middens (Wheeler 1907). Rather, the attine ant-fungus mutualism probably arose from adventitious interactions with fungi that grew on walls of nests built in leaf litter (Emery 1899), or from a system of fungal myrmecochory in which specialized fungi relied on ants for dispersal (Bailey 1920) and in which the ants fortuitously vectored these fungi from parent to offspring nests prior to a true fungicultural stage.
2664002|In this review, we present a new conceptual framework for the study of play behavior, a hitherto puzzling array of seemingly purposeless and unrelated behavioral elements that are recognizable as play throughout the mammalian lineage. Our major new functional hypothesis is that play enables animals to develop flexible kinematic and emotional responses to unexpected events in which they experience a sudden loss of control. Specifically, we propose that play functions to increase the versatility of movements used to recover from sudden shocks such as loss of balance and falling over, and to enhance the ability of animals to cope emotionally with unexpected stressful situations. To obtain this "training for the unexpected," we suggest that animals actively seek and create unexpected situations in play through self-handicapping; that is, deliberately relaxing control over their movements or actively putting themselves into disadvantageous positions and situations. Thus, play is comprised of sequences in which the players switch rapidly between well-controlled movements similar to those used in "serious" behavior and self-handicapping movements that result in temporary loss of control. We propose that this playful switching between in-control and out-of-control elements is cognitively demanding, setting phylogenetic and ontogenetic constraints on play, and is underlain by neuroendocrinological responses that produce a complex emotional state known as "having fun." Furthermore, we propose that play is often prompted by relatively novel or unpredictable stimuli, and is thus related to, although distinct from, exploration. We present 24 predictions that arise from our new theoretical framework, examining the extent to which they are supported by the existing empirical evidence and contrasting them with the predictions of four major alternative hypotheses about play. We argue that our "training for the unexpected" hypothesis can account for some previously puzzling kinematic, structural, motivational, emotional, cognitive, social, ontogenetic, and phylogenetic aspects of play. It may also account for a diversity of individual methods for coping with unexpected misfortunes.
2664846|Annual changes in daylength figure prominently in the generation of seasonal rhythms in reproduction, and a wide variety of mammals use ambient photoperiod as a proximate cue to time critical reproductive events. Nevertheless, within many reproductively photoperiodic mammalian species, there exist individuals-termed "photoperiod nonresponders"-that fail to adopt a seasonal breeding strategy and instead exhibit reproductive competence at a time of year when their conspecifics are reproductively quiescent. Photoperiod nonresponsiveness has been principally characterized by laboratory observations-over half of the species known to be reproductively photoperiodic contain a proportion of nonresponsive individuals. The study of nonresponders has generated basic insights regarding photic regulation of reproduction in mammals. The neuroendocrine mechanisms by which the short-day photoperiodic signal is degraded or lost in nonresponders varies between species: differences in features of the circadian pacemaker, which provides photoperiodic input to the reproductive neuroendocrine system, have been identified in hamsters; changes in the responsiveness of hypothalamic gonadotrophs to melatonin and as-yet-unspecified inhibitory signals have been implicated in voles and mice. Individuals that continue to breed when their conspecifics refrain might enjoy higher fitness under certain circumstances. Statements regarding the adaptive function of reproductive nonresponsiveness to photoperiod require additional information on the costs (metabolic and fitness) of sustaining reproductive function during the winter months and how these costs vary as a function of environmental conditions. Reproductive nonresponders thus continue to represent a challenge to theories that extol the adaptive function of seasonality. Several nonexclusive hypotheses are proposed to account for the maintenance of nonresponsive individuals in wild rodent populations.
2664497|Evolutionary origins of alcohol consumption have rarely been considered in studies of ethanol addiction. However, the occurrence of ethanol in ripe and decaying fruit and the substantial heritability of alcoholism in humans suggest an important historical association between primate frugivory and alcohol consumption. Olfactory localization of ripe fruit via volatilized alcohols, the use of ethanol as an appetitive stimulant, and the consumption of fruits with substantial ethanol content potentially characterize all frugivorous primates, including hominoids and the lineage leading to modern humans. Patterns of alcohol use by humans in contemporary environments may thus reflect a maladaptive co-option of ancestral nutritional strategies. Although diverse factors contribute to the expression of alcoholism as a clinical syndrome, historical selection for the consumption of ethanol in the course of frugivory can be viewed as a subtle yet pervasive evolutionary influence on modern humans.
2664498|Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most commonly diagnosed psychiatric condition. Many believe that the central disability is impaired inhibition, which leads to reduced abilities in social skills, self-control, organization and time management. The behaviors identified by clinicians as problematic-inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity-have been incorporated into several evolutionary models as selectively adaptive cognitive skills for surviving the challenges of a variable Pleistocene environment. We propose that the "disabilities" exhibited by individuals with ADHD are maladaptive, and we concur with Barkley that there is a central impairment in the behavioral inhibition system. The underlying neural anatomy and physiology support the possibility that neurotransmitter pathology may have an impact on other interlinked systems (including language), and may also account for the frequent comorbidity of aggression, anxiety, depression, and learning disabilities (many of which are language-related). Language skills compete with other cognitive activities for the attentional system, and thus the evolution of language could not in fact be independent of the evolution of attention. If language represents the ultimate expression of the attentional system, and some individuals with ADHD are seriously impaired in the coordination of interlinked neural systems (including language), then ADHD fits Jerome Wakefield's definition of "harmful dysfunction," and communication impairments should be investigated more thoroughly by clinicians.
2664968|It is widely agreed that fecundity selection and sexual selection are the major evolutionary forces that select for larger body size in most organisms. The general, equilibrium view is that selection for large body size is eventually counterbalanced by opposing selective forces. While the evidence for selection favoring larger body size is overwhelming, counterbalancing selection favoring small body size is often masked by the good condition of the larger organism and is therefore less obvious. The suggested costs of large size are: (1) viability costs in juveniles due to long development and/or fast growth; (2) viability costs in adults and juveniles due to predation, parasitism, or starvation because of reduced agility, increased detectability, higher energy requirements, heat stress, and/or intrinsic costs of reproduction; (3) decreased mating success of large males due to reduced agility and/or high energy requirements; and (4) decreased reproductive success of large females and males due to late reproduction. A review of the literature indicates a substantial lack of empirical evidence for these various mechanisms and highlights the need for experimental studies that specifically address the fitness costs of being large at the ecological, physiological, and genetic levels. Specifically, theoretical investigations and comprehensive case studies of particular model species are needed to elucidate whether sporadic selection in time and space is sufficient to counterbalance perpetual and strong selection for large body size.
2664969|We review the literature on centrioles, kinetosomes, and other microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs) in animal, plant, and protist cells in the context of the Henneguy-Lenhossk theory of 1899. This 100-year-old cytological theory, valid today, defines centrioles and kinetosomes as identical, homologous but developmentally distinguishable structures. Centrioles (paired constituents of mitotic centrosomes in animal cells) become kinetosomes (ciliary basal bodies) when their 9(2)+2 microtubular axonemes grow outward. During mitosis in Chlamydomonas, the kinetosomes are segregated at the poles of the mitotic spindle. Mitotic centrioles function as organelles of motility in many protists, though nowhere is this centriole-kinetosome relation more clearly seen than in the karyomastigont structure (kinetosome-nucleus-Golgi complex organellar system) of the trichomonads and other amitochondriate parabasalids. Constituent sequences of mitotic spindle-centriole-kinetosome proteins (-tubulin, pericentrin, and the cyclin-dependent kinases Cdc2 and Cdc3, members of the centrin family) are conserved across taxa, occurring in animal and protist centrioles, plant MTOCs, and fungal spindle pole bodies. We review ultrastructural and molecular data on these and other important MTOC proteins, and present a model whereby the cytological arrangement of centrioles (i.e., orthogonal pairs as in centrosomes) may have originated. We compare and contrast endogenous and exogenous (bacterial symbiont integration) models for the evolution of centriole-kinetosomes (c-ks), with illustrative examples from Kingdom Protoctista.
2664253|Leading Moravian sheep breeders, who joined with university professors and other educated citizens to form a Sheep Breeders' Society in 1814, looked to science to provide a reliable basis for breeding. Their activities reached a climax in the 1830s, when they defined and focused on heredity as the central research goal. Among the members taking part was Abbot Cyrill F Napp, who in 1843 would accept Mendel into the monastery. The contributions of Abbot Napp to the sheep breeders' view of heredity are here described. After 1900, when Moravian animal breeding sought to embrace Mendelism, in competition with other theories, a major influence was exerted by Jaroslav Krizenecky (1896-1964). In 1963, Krizenecky accepted responsibility for establishing the Mendel Museum (Mendelianum) in Brno as a vehicle for historical research into the origin and essence of Mendel's discovery.
2664252|Approximately two-thirds of women experience nausea or vomiting during the first trimester of pregnancy. These symptoms are commonly known as morning sickness. Hook (1976) and Profet (1988) hypothesized that morning sickness protects the embryo by causing pregnant women to physically expel and subsequently avoid foods that contain teratogenic and abortifacient chemicals, especially toxic chemicals in strong-tasting vegetables, caffeinated beverages and alcohol. We examined this hypothesis by comprehensively reviewing the relevant medical, psychological and anthropological literature. In its support, (i) symptoms peak when embryonic organogenesis is most susceptible to chemical disruption (weeks 6-18), (ii) women who experience morning sickness are significantly less likely to miscarry than women who do not (9 of 9 studies), (iii) women who vomit suffer fewer miscarriages than those who experience nausea alone, and (iv) many pregnant women have aversions to alcoholic and nonalcoholic (mostly caffeinated) beverages and strong-tasting vegetables, especially during the first trimester. Surprisingly, however, the greatest aversions are to meats, fish, poultry, and eggs. A cross-cultural analysis using the Human Relations Area Files revealed 20 traditional societies in which morning sickness has been observed and seven in which it has never been observed. The latter were significantly less likely to have animal products as dietary staples and significantly more likely to have only plants (primarily corn) as staples than the 20 societies in which morning sickness occurred. Animal products may be dangerous to pregnant women and their embryos because they often contain parasites and pathogens, especially when stored at room temperatures in warm climates. Avoiding foodborne microorganisms is particularly important to pregnant women because they are immunosuppressed, presumably to reduce the chances of rejecting tissues of their own offspring (Haig 1993). As a result, pregnant women are more vulnerable to serious, often deadly infections. We hypothesize that morning sickness causes women to avoid foods that might be dangerous to themselves or their embryos, especially foods that, prior to widespread refrigeration, were likely to be heavily laden with microorganisms and their toxins. The alternative hypotheses that morning sickness is (i) an epiphenomenon of mother-offspring genetic conflict or hormones associated with viable pregnancies, or (ii) an indicator to potential sexual partners and kin that the woman is pregnant, resulting in reduced sexual behavior and increased nepotistic aid, were not well supported. Available data are most consistent with the hypothesis that morning sickness serves an adaptive, prophylactic function.
2665190|Parasitism is one of the most successful modes of life displayed by living organisms, as measured by how often it evolved and how many parasitic species are presently in existence. Studying the diversity of parasites is particularly relevant because sympatric diversification may be important in some parasite taxa, and because of the opportunity for independent tests of evolutionary hypotheses in the many separate lineages in which parasitism evolved. Our incomplete knowledge of existing parasite species-the result of a range of phenomena that includes inadequate sampling effort or the lumping of different cryptic species under one name-is not always a major obstacle for the study of parasite diversity. Patterns in the diversity of parasites may be associated with either host or parasite characteristics. The distribution of parasite diversity among host taxa does not simply reflect the species diversity of the host taxa themselves; life history and ecological traits of hosts appear to play important roles. These may determine the likelihood that hosts are colonized by parasite species over evolutionary time. It is not yet clear whether some host traits also favor intrahost speciation and diversification of parasites, and the formation of new parasite species. Certain features of parasites may also be associated with speciation and diversification. Only parasite body size has received much attention; the patterns observed are not greatly different from those of free-living species, with small-bodied parasite taxa being more speciose than related large-bodied taxa. Epidemiological parameters such as the basic reproductive rate of parasites, or R<sub>0</sub>, can also generate predictions regarding the distribution or evolution of parasite diversity. For instance, parasite taxa characterized by high R<sub>0</sub> values may be more speciose than related taxa with lower values of R<sub>0</sub>; such predictions remain untested. Large-scale biogeographical patterns of diversity have only been well studied for metazoan parasites of marine fish; for these parasites, latitudinal patterns can be explained by effects of temperature on speciation rates and epidemiological variables, though other causes are possible. The emphasis for future research must shift from pattern description to the elucidation of the processes responsible for the structure and diversity of parasite faunas. A better integration of ecological and historical (or phylogenetic) approaches to the study of parasite diversity should make this objective possible.
2665189|Conventional models predict that low genetic relatedness among parasites that coinfect the same host leads to the evolution of high parasite virulence. Such models assume adaptive responses to hard selection only. We show that if soft selection is allowed to operate, low relatedness leads instead to the evolution of low virulence. With both hard and soft selection, low relatedness increases the conflict among coinfecting parasites. Although parasites can only respond to hard selection by evolving higher virulence and overexploiting their host, they can respond to soft selection by evolving other adaptations, such as interference, that prevent overexploitation. Because interference can entail a cost, the host may actually be underexploited, and virulence will decrease as a result of soft selection. Our analysis also shows that responses to soft selection can have a much stronger effect than responses to hard selection. After hard selection has raised virulence to a level that is an evolutionarily stable strategy, the population, as expected, cannot be invaded by more virulent phenotypes that respond only to hard selection. The population remains susceptible to invasion by a less virulent phenotype that responds to soft selection, however. Thus, hard and soft selection are not just alternatives. Rather, soft selection is expected to prevail and often thwart the evolution of virulence in parasites. We review evidence from several parasite systems and find support for soft selection. Most of the examples involve interference mechanisms that indirectly prevent the evolution of higher virulence. We recognize that hard selection for virulence is more difficult to document, but we take our results to suggest that a kin selection model with soft selection may have general applicability.
2665188|A variety of natural products and synthetic chemicals, known collectively as endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs), mimic or interfere with the mechanisms that govern vertebrate reproductive development and function. At present, research has focused on (i) the morphological and functional consequences of EDCs; (ii) identifying and determining the relative potencies of synthetic and steroidal compounds that have endocrine-disrupting effects; (iii) the mechanism of action of EDCs at the molecular level; and (iv) the recognition that in "real life," contamination usually reflects mixtures of EDCs. Future research must examine (i) the interactive nature of EDCs, particularly whether the threshold concept as developed in traditional toxicological research applies to these chemicals; (ii) when and how EDCs act at the physiological level, particularly how they may organize the neural substrates of reproductive physiology and behavior; (iii) the various effects these compounds have on different species, individuals, and even tissues; and (iv) how adaptations may evolve in natural populations with continued exposure to EDCs. Several predictions are offered that reflect these new perspectives. Specifically, (i) the threshold assumption will be found not to apply to EDCs because they mimic the actions of endogenous molecules (e.g., estrogen) critical to development; hence, the threshold is automatically exceeded with exposure. (ii) Behavior can compound and magnify the effects of EDCs over successive generations; that is, bioaccumulated EDCs inherited from the mother not only influence the morphological and physiological development of the offspring but also the offsprings' reproductive behavior as adults. This adult behavior, in turn, can have further consequences on the sexual development of their own young. (iii) The sensitivity of a species or an individual to a compound is related to species (individual)-typical concentrations of circulating gonadal steroid hormones. Related to this is the recent finding that alternate forms of the putative receptors are differentially distributed, thereby contributing to the different effects that have been observed. (iv) Except in extraordinary situations, populations often continue to exist in contaminated sites. One possible explanation for this observation that needs to be considered is that animals can rapidly adapt to the nature and level of contamination in their environment. It is unlikely that successive generations coincidentally become insensitive to gonadal steroid hormones fundamentally important as biological regulators of development and reproduction. Rather, adaptive alterations in the genes that encode steroid receptors may occur with chronic exposure to EDCs, allowing the sex hormone receptor to discriminate natural steroids from EDCs.
10.1086/596461|Studies of mate choice in vertebrates have focused principally on birds, in which male ornaments are often highly developed, and have shown that females commonly select mates on the basis of particular phenotypic characteristics that may reflect their genetic quality. Studies of female mate choice in mammals are less highly developed, and they have commonly focused on female mating preferences that are likely to be maintained by benefits to the female's own survival or breeding success. However, recent experimental studies of mate choice in mammalsespecially rodentsprovide increasing evidence of consistent female preferences that appear likely to generate benefits to the fitness of offspring. As yet, there is no compelling evidence that female mating preferences are less highly developed in female mammals than in female birds, although these preferences may more often be masked by the effects of male competition or of attempts by males to constrain female choice.
10.1086/596463|Sensory organs represent the interface between the central nervous system of organisms and the environment in which they live. To date, we still lack a true integration of ecological and evolutionary perspectives in our understanding of many sensory systems. We argue that scientists working in sensory ecology should expand the bridge between sensory and evolutionary biology, and, in working toward this goal, we advocate a combination of the experimental rigor of the sensory physiologist with population-based as well as evolutionary views.
10.1086/596462|In this paper, we discuss, from both biological and cultural perspectives, the ancient human-plant liaison that gave rise to Near Eastern agriculture. We explain the biological aspects of Near Eastern plant domestication by a comparative analysis of legume vs. cereal crop evolution. This comparison is illustrated by the natural distribution, ecological affinity, physiology, population structure, floral biology, growth habit, plant stature, seed dispersal mode, and seed dormancy of both wild and domesticated plants of these crop groups. We discuss the differences between Near Eastern legumes and cereals with regard to each of the above aspects, and we highlight the relevance of these differences with regard to Neolithic decision-making, adoption for farming, and subsequent evolution under domestication. We reached the following conclusions: (1) Near Eastern legumes underwent different evolutionary trajectories under domestication as compared with their companion cereals, despite apparent similarities between selection under domestication of both crop groups. (2) Careful comparison of pea, lentil, and chickpea shows that each of the Near Eastern legume crops has a unique evolutionary history in its own right, and this also holds true for the cereal crops. (3) The evolutionary history of each of the Near Eastern crops, prior to as well as after domestication, is well-reflected in its adaptation profile in present-day cropping systems, which determines each crop's relative economic importance in different world regions (e.g., chickpea is a major pulse in the Indian subcontinent, and pea is a more important crop in temperate regions, while barley has the widest adaptation, extending from high-latitude temperate regions to semi-arid Mediterranean systems). (4) Ancient choice-making, as reflected in the founder crops repertoire, involved nutritional considerations that may have outweighed grain yield per area and/or time unit criteria.
QRB1311|Biogeographers study all patterns in the geographic variation of life, from the spatial variation in genetic and physiological characteristics of cells and individuals, to the diversity and dynamics of biological communities among continental biotas or across oceanic archipelagoes. The field of island biogeography, in particular, has provided some genuinely transformative insights for the biological sciences, especially ecology and evolutionary biology. Our purpose here is to review the historical development of island biogeography theory during the 20th century by identifying the common threads that run through four sets of contributions made during this period, including those by
QRB1541|Contemporary Darwinian medicine is a stillexpanding new discipline, one of whose principal aims is to arrive at an evolutionary understanding of those aspects of the body that leave it vulnerable to disease. Historically, there was a precedent for this research; between 1880 and 1940, several scientists tried to develop some general evolutionary theories of disease as arising from deleterious traits that escape elimination by natural selection. In contrast, contemporary Darwinian medicine uses evolutionary theory to consider all the possible reasons why selection has left humans vulnerable to disease.
10.1086/598822|This review describes new developments in the study of transgenerational epigenetic inheritance, a component of epigenetics. We start by examining the basic concepts of the field and the mechanisms that underlie epigenetic inheritance. We present a comprehensive review of transgenerational cellular epigenetic inheritance among different taxa in the form of a table, and discuss the data contained therein. The analysis of these data shows that epigenetic inheritance is ubiquitous and suggests lines of research that go beyond present approaches to the subject. We conclude by exploring some of the consequences of epigenetic inheritance for the study of evolution, while also pointing to the importance of recognizing and understanding epigenetic inheritance for practical and theoretical issues in biology.
10.1086/605079|Character displacement is the process by which traits evolve in response to selection to lessen resource competition or reproductive interactions between species. Although character displacement has long been viewed as an important mechanism for enabling closely related species to coexist, the causes and consequences of character displacement have not been fully explored. Moreover, character displacement in traits associated with resource use (ecological character displacement) has been largely studied independently of that in traits associated with reproduction (reproductive character displacement). In this review, we underscore the commonalities of these two forms of character displacement and discuss how they interact. We focus on the causes of character displacement and explore how character displacement can have downstream effects ranging from speciation to extinction. In short, understanding how organisms respond to competitive and reproductive interactions with heterospecifics offers key insights into the evolutionary causes and consequences of species coexistence and diversification.
10.1086/605078|Communal egg-laying is widespread among animals, occurring in insects, mollusks, fish, amphibians, reptiles, and birds, just to name a few. While some benefits of communal egg-laying may be pervasive (e.g., it saves time and energy and may ensure the survival of mothers and their offspring), the remarkable diversity in the life histories of the animals that exhibit this behavior presents a great challenge to discovering any general explanation. Reptiles and amphibians offer ideal systems for investigating communal egg-laying because they generally lack parental carea simplification that brings nest site choice behavior into sharp focus. We exhaustively reviewed the published literature for data on communal egg-laying in reptiles and amphibians. Our analysis demonstrates that the behavior is much more common than previously recognized (occurring in 481 spp.), especially among lizards (N = 255 spp.), where the behavior has evolved multiple times. Our conceptual review strongly suggests that different forces may be driving the evolution and maintenance of communal egg-laying in different taxa. Using a game theory approach, we demonstrate how a stable equilibrium may occur between solitary and communal layers, thus allowing both strategies to co-exist in some populations, and we discuss factors that may influence these proportions. We conclude by outlining future research directions for determining the proximate and ultimate causes of communal egg-laying.
QRB4527|Paradoxically, men report better health and quality of life than women, but men experience higher mortality rates than women at most ages. One conclusion from these findings is that men have been selected to disregard signs of ill health, or even to deceive themselves about their health, to their detriment because presenting themselves as healthy has fitness benefits. We hypothesize that men have been sexually selected to present themselves to women as healthy but that the cost of not attending to their minor health problems results in earlier mortality than women. We present a review of the human and primate literature that supports health selection theory, the hypothesis that females have preferentially selected males who present themselves as healthy.
QRB4872|Environmental sex reversal (ESR), which results in a mismatch between genotypic and phenotypic sex, is well documented in numerous fish species and may be induced by chemical exposure. Historically, research involving piscine ESR has been carried out with a view to improving profitability in aquaculture or to elucidate the processes governing sex determination and sexual differentiation. However, recent studies in evolution and ecology suggest research on ESR now has much wider applications and ramifications. We begin with an overview of ESR in fish and a brief review of the traditional applications thereof. We then discuss ESR and its potential demographic consequences in wild populations. Theory even suggests sex-reversed fish may be purposefully released to manipulate population dynamics. We suggest new research directions that may prove fruitful in understanding how ESR at the individual level translates to population-level processes. In the latter portion of the review we focus on evolutionary applications of ESR. Sex-reversal studies from the aquaculture literature provide insight in to the evolvability of determinants of sexual phenotype. Additionally, induced sex reversal can provide information about the evolution of sex chromosomes and sex-linked traits. Recently, naturally occurring ESR has been implicated as a mechanism contributing to the evolution of sex chromosomes.
QRB4898|Ecological succession is arguably the most enduring contribution of plant ecologists and its origins have never been contested. However, we show that French entomologist Pierre Mgnin, while collaborating with medical examiners in the late 1800s, advanced the first formal definition and testable mechanism of ecological succession. This discovery gave birth to the twin disciplines of carrion ecology and forensic entomology. As a novel case of multiple independent discovery, we chronicle how the disciplines of plant and carrion ecology (including forensic entomology) accumulated strikingly similar parallel histories and contributions. In the 1900s, the two groups diverged in methodology and purpose, with carrion ecologists and forensic entomologists focusing mostly on case reports and observational studies instead of hypothesis testing. Momentum is currently growing, however, to develop the ecological framework of forensic entomology and advance carrion ecology theory. Researchers are recognizing the potential of carcasses as subjects for testing not only succession mechanisms (without assuming space-for-time substitution), but also aggregation and coexistence models, diversity-ecosystem function relationships, and the dynamics of pulsed resources. By comparing the contributions of plant and carrion ecologists, we hope to stimulate future crossover research that leads to a general theory of ecological succession.
QRB5201|Organisms adapt developmental and physiological features to local and transient conditions in part by modulating transcription, translation, and protein functions, usually without changing DNA sequences. Remarkably, these epigenetic changes sometimes endure through meiosis and gametogenesis, thereby affecting phenotypic variation across generations, long after epigenetic changes were triggered. Transgenerational effects challenge our traditional understanding of inheritance. In this review, we focus on patterns of inheritance, molecular features, mechanisms that lead from environmental and genetic perturbations to phenotypic variation in later generations, and issues about study design and replication.
QRB5214|The geographic distributions of all species are limited, and the determining factors that set these limits are of fundamental importance to the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology. Plant and animal ranges have been of primary concern, while those of parasites, which represent much of the Earths biodiversity, have been neglected. Here, we review the determinants of the geographic ranges of parasites and pathogens, and explore how parasites provide novel systems with which to investigate the ecological and evolutionary processes governing host/parasite spatial distributions. Although there is significant overlap in the causative factors that determine range borders of parasites and free-living species, parasite distributions are additionally constrained by the geographic range and ecology of the host species population, as well as by evolutionary factors that promote host-parasite coevolution. Recently, parasites have been used to infer population demographic and ecological information about their host organisms and we conclude that this strategy can be further exploited to understand geographic range limitations of both host and parasite populations.
QRB5093|Some adaptationist explanations are regarded as maximally solid and others fanciful just-so stories. Just-so stories are explanations based on very little evidence. Lack of evidence leads to circular-sounding reasoning: this trait was shaped by selection in unseen ancestral populations and this selection must have occurred because the trait is present. Well-supported adaptationist explanations include evidence that is not only abundant but selected from comparative, populational, and optimality perspectives, the three adaptationist subdisciplines. Each subdiscipline obtains its broad relevance in evolutionary biology via assumptions that can only be tested with the methods of the other subdisciplines. However, even in the best-supported explanations, assumptions regarding variation, heritability, and fitness in unseen ancestral populations are always present. These assumptions are accepted given how well they would explain the data if they were true. This means that some degree of circularity is present in all evolutionary explanations. Evolutionary explanation corresponds not to a deductive structure, as biologists usually assert, but instead to ones such as abduction or Bayesianism. With these structures in mind, we show the way to a healthier view of circularity in evolutionary biology and why integration across the comparative, populational, and optimality approaches is necessary.
QRB5085|Broadening contingents of ecologists and environmental scientists have recently begun to promote ecological resilience both as a conceptual framework and as a practical goal. As some critics have noted, this growing interest has brought with it a multiplication of notions of ecological resilience. This paper reviews how and why the notion of ecological resilience has been adopted, used, and defended in ecology since its introduction by C. S. Holling in
QRB4846|Most developmental biologists equate tunicates to the sessile ascidians, including
QRB5215|Evolutionary theory predicts rigorous competition in nature and selfish behavior is thus seen as its inevitable consequence. Evidence of altruistic and cooperative behavior therefore appears at odds with evolutionary theory. However, evolutionary psychology suggests that past environments may be different from the current environments that humans inhabit. Here it is hypothesized that competition in two past environments might have led to strategies that favored altruism and cooperation toward nonkin. First, the expansion of the human brain is seen as requiring long-term, quality parental investment to sustain it. Altruistic displays could well have signaled an ability and willingness to provide such parental investment in a potential mate and been favored as a result. Second, the development of extra-somatic weapons is seen as leading to competition within hominin groups becoming more costly as disputes would have become lethal. A cooperative strategy could have achieved greater net fitness if the benefits of reduced involvement in such lethal disputes exceeded the costs of cooperation. Genes associated with human altruism and cooperation toward nonkin could thus have increased in frequency and come to be expressed in modern human populations despite the environments in which they evolved no longer being fully evident in the modern world.
QRB5135|Microbial model systems have made major contributions across the life sciences. Their influence extends beyond strictly microbiological research to inform and enhance general biological understanding. To cast light on how microbial populations and communities function as model systems, we examine their use in historical and contemporary research on evolutionary and ecological dynamics. We assess the pros and cons of microbial model systems, and identify specific ways in which they benefit research. Analyzing microbial model systems is of particular value as biologists become increasingly aware of the microbial world and its interactions with the rest of life.
QRB5456|We propose that plant foods containing high quantities of starch were essential for the evolution of the human phenotype during the Pleistocene. Although previous studies have highlighted a stone tool-mediated shift from primarily plant-based to primarily meat-based diets as critical in the development of the brain and other human traits, we argue that digestible carbohydrates were also necessary to accommodate the increased metabolic demands of a growing brain. Furthermore, we acknowledge the adaptive role cooking played in improving the digestibility and palatability of key carbohydrates. We provide evidence that cooked starch, a source of preformed glucose, greatly increased energy availability to human tissues with high glucose demands, such as the brain, red blood cells, and the developing fetus. We also highlight the auxiliary role copy number variation in the salivary amylase genes may have played in increasing the importance of starch in human evolution following the origins of cooking. Salivary amylases are largely ineffective on raw crystalline starch, but cooking substantially increases both their energy-yielding potential and glycemia. Although uncertainties remain regarding the antiquity of cooking and the origins of salivary amylase gene copy number variation, the hypothesis we present makes a testable prediction that these events are correlated.
2818612|The Neotropical Region, which is defined on the basis of its living mammals, is comprised of the Brazilian, Patagonian, and West Indian Subregions. The Middle American Province of the Brazilian Subregion was the primary center of origin, evolution, and dispersal for mammals now living in continental South America. The West Indies also derived its fauna from Middle America, and perhaps also from South America. Faunal interchange between these regions must have taken place since the Middle Tertiary, at the latest. By the time the Isthmian land bridge between Middle and South America was completed during the Pliocene-Pleistocene transition, nearly all modern genera of Neotropical mammals were already differentiated within their present geographic ranges. Five faunal strata of Neotropical mammals are identified on the basis of postulated centers of origin of the ancestral stock, dispersal routes of colonizers, known grades of differentiation of living descendents, and the meager fossil evidence. The living fauna is classified ecologically as sylvan, pastoral, fluviatile, and versatile. The faunas of widely separated and ecologically contrasting biotic areas are then described, and some of the biological factors controlling evolution and dispersal are briefly discussed.
2819224|One group of lizards-the iguanid genus Anolis in the West Indies-is now sufficiently well known to permit an empirical test of ecological theories of colonization in terms of these relatively slowly colonizing forms. Investigation of one special aspect-recent colonization of small distant islands-leads to the following conclusions: (1) Succesfully colonizing species are a small and specialized fraction of the number available for colonization. (2) They are "versatile" species-creatures of the ecotone, physiologically and ecologically tolerant of many conditions and requiring of few. (3) Below some critical island size a colonizing species may by ecological release exclude all congeners. In Anolis this size of island is large (e.g., 560 mi
2819438| At the turn of the twentieth century a number of the younger biologists (born after 1860) became dissatisfied with the prevailing interests and methods of research of their elders. An all-consuming interest in evolutionary relationships dominated many fields of biology, including embryology, cytology, genetics, paleontology, and taxonomy. Under the name of "general morphology," work was largely directed at elucidating phylogenetic relationships, often to the exclusion of legitimate problems in the various fields. The heavy emphasis on evolutionary considerations was largely European in origin, having spread to the United States through the many American biologists who were trained abroad in the early and middle nineteenth century. With the rise of American graduate education in the 1870's, a new generation of biologists began to escape the dominant European influences. Thomas Hunt Morgan (1866-1945) offers a good example of the attempt of younger men at this time to emancipate fields such as embryology, genetics, and evolution from the domination of descriptive morphology. In reaction to descriptive and speculative methods of the past, Morgan, in close association with European emigr Jacques Loeb, stronlgy supported and experimental, mechanistic outlook in biology which to some extent foreshadowed the dominant reductivist attitude of the present day. 
2819439|Possible selective advantages, including some new ones, for hermaphroditism are reviewed. It is proposed that hermaphroditism should evolve under the following conditions: (a) where it is hard to find a mate; (b) where one sex benefits from being larger or smaller than the other; or (c) where there are small, genetically isolated populations. Some conceptual problems and a comparative means of study are discussed. The literature is reviewed to show the conditions under which hermaphroditism may have evolved. It is concluded that all thee explanations have some validity.
2819437|A group of papers on the mammalian faunas of Africa, the Neotropical region, and Australia (Quart. Rev. Biol., 43: 265-300; 373-408, 1968; 1-70, 1969) is reviewed from a comparative standpoint and certain general concepts relative to faunal evolution and distribution on those continents are developed. On the basis of current taxonomic information Africa has 51 families and 756 species of mammals, Neotropica 50 and 810, and Australia 18 and 364. If the section of Africa that has a rainfall of less than 5 inches per annum be excluded (the Sahara Desert covers almost one-third of the continent) the number of families and species per 100,000 square miles are comparable: Africa, 0.63 (9.39); Neotropica, 0.70 (11.3); Australia, 0.55 (11.03). Africa has the most diversified fauna. Neotropica owes its numerical richness to large faunas of rodents and bats. Stemming from their different basal stocks and different histories of isolation and faunistic interchange with adjacent continents, the three continents differ fundamentally in their faunal compositions, levels of endemism and dominant groups. Differences in rainfall and degree of development of different vegetation types (present and former) explain the predominantly savannah nature of the Africa fauna and the prominence of rain forest elements in Neotropica. The impoverishment of the Neotropical large mammal fauna, however, must be explained partly on historic grounds (extinction without replacement). Factors affecting faunistic richness include continental area, latitudinal position, percentage of the continent lying within the tropics, relative amounts of tropical rain forest, savannah, and desert, degree of biotic and physiographic diversity, past opportunities for acquiring new species from outside, and for evolving new ones within the continent. Although the continents differ greatly in these factors, some degree of balance is discernible in the number of species occupying the various major adaptive zones or ways of life. Thus, small terrestrial omnivores and rabbit-sized terrestrial herbivores make up about the same percentages of the total fauna of each continent. One of the most striking events in the evolution of Southern Hemisphere faunas was the colonization of South America by North American mammals in the late Tertiary. Authorities disagree about the time this colonization began. On the basis of fossil evidence, paleontologists Simpson, Patterson, and Pascual date the formation of the land-bridge as late Pliocene and the major interchange as Pleistocene. Neontologist Hershkovitz, on the other hand, arguing from the degree of differentiation achieved by many of the northern groups in Neotropica, suggests widespread colonization before the land-bridge and a somewhat earlier date for its completion.
2820209|Radar observations often show nocturnal migrants well oriented under opaque layers of cloud, and perhaps even inside or between cloud layers. Some homing pigeons can orient towards home from unfamiliar territory under overcast skies. In searching for non-visual sensory capabilities of birds it is important to consider not only their sensory physiology but also the atmospheric ecology of migration when neither sky nor ground is visible. Either inertial naviation or orientation to the earth's magnetic field requires considerably greater sensitivity than any yet demostrated in birds. Natural or artificial sounds from the surface, or even ground echoes of flight calls, might facilitate orientation under some conditions. Birds communicating by flight calls might detect the differential wind drift experienced by upper and lower members of a flock, and thus determine the direction of wind shear. Under many meteorological conditions such patterns of air movement as roll vortices or internal gravity waves produce readily detectable updrafts capable of providing both lift and information about the direction of the wind or wind shear.
2820210|A critical discussion of developmental processes in the cellular slime molds is presented. The concept of timing sequence, consisting of a set of gene-product units (GPUs) linked by interactions, is proposed to describe significant changes during development of any organism. It is shown how the contrasting outlooks and experimental approaches of the two major laboratories involved in biochemical work on slime molds may be brought together under this framework. Three timing sequences which may be applicable to the particular case of cellular slime molds are presented and discussed in detail. Attention is called to experiments which will most rapidly reveal the actual timing sequence.
3037130|Hormones play key roles in the regulation of animal and plant life histories, particularly in the timing of transitions between prematurational stages and in the scheduling of reproduction. Furthermore, hormonal mechanisms are subject to information about the external and internal environment of the individual. Within an evolutionary radiation, the same hormone subsets often regulate the schedules of development as well as adult reproduction and related activities and, moreover, are involved in mechanisms of senescence. We propose that the pleiotropic and epistatic effects from hormonal and neural mechanisms are an important substratum for life history evolution. This analysis of hormonal mechanisms in senescence implicates a role for antagonistic pleiotropy in selection for particular subsets of hormonal mechanisms that can be traced throughout prematurational and postmaturational stages. In the example of the vertebrate MHC (major histocompatibility complex), polymorphic loci have been assembled with pleiotropic actions on several regulatory axes affecting reproduction and other fitness components. We argue that the MHC and other complex loci may be considered as life history gene complexes, with pleiotropic influences throughout the lifespan. While analyses of this kind might suggest that life histories could be evolutionarily rigid, in our interpretation the population genetics that is involved provides a theoretical basis for great flexibility in hormonal regulation during life history evolution. It is possible that life history evolution among taxonomic groups may sometimes be chaotic, which would frustrate strong inferences by the comparative method in the study of life histories between taxonomic groups.
3035823|I propose that the very earliest cell could not have contained intracellular parasites in the sense of independent, self-benefiting agents that were detrimental to their host. Before there were effective ways to extract energy by methanogenesis and photosynthesis, the world ecosystem, I have argued, was very sparse and essentially monophyletic (Koch, 1994). During much or all of this time, nontransmissible agents, comparable to plasmids, would have been selected against as long as they could not synchronize their growth with that of their single-celled host. Even when such an adaptation was initiated, it must have been one that was likely crude and imperfect, and frequently failed. The transmission of genetic material via subcellular vectors would have depended on the later development of special mechanism for the introduction of nucleic acids into living cells. only after living forms became abundant could and efficient and effective transmissible intracellular pathogen prosper, because by then a trnsmissible agent could be destructive to its host and more successfully to a new host. The implication is that much of the earliest evolution of either the host's cellular functions or the parasite's techniques and strategies proceeded without gene transfer. Support for these ideas is presented, starting from hypotheses concerning the nature of the first life forms and leading to a scenario for the development of transmissible intracellular pathogens.
3035822|A fundamentally new psychology related to the ability to conceive of limited aspects of the self may have envolved in the ancestor of the great ape/human clade. Existing models of the evolution of primate intelligence do not provide an adequate explanation of the apparent restriction of this phenomenon. We propose that the capacity for self-conception envolved as a psychological mechanims enabling large-bodied, highly arboreal apes to cope with problems posed by the need to negotiate their way through a habitat that was fragile due to their body size. First, we briefly outline the case for believing that a new psychology related to self-conception envolved during the Miocene in the ancestor of the great ape/human clade. Next, we examine the existing models of the evolution of primate intelligence and assess their ability to account for the evolution of self-conception. Finally, we offer details of our alternative model, along with a series of predictions that can be derived from it.
3035824|A common assumption historically in ecology is evident in the term "balance of nature." The phrase usually implies that undisturbed nature is ordered and harmonius, and that ecological systems return to a previous equilibrium after disturbances. The more recent concepts of point equilibrium and static stability, which characterize the classical equilibrium paradigm in ecology, are traceable to the assumptions implicit in "balance of nature." The classical equilibrium view, however, has failed not only because equilibrium conditions are rare in nature, but also because of our past inability to incorporate heterogeneity and scale multiplicity into our quantitative expresssions for stability. The theories and models built around these equlibrium and stability principles have misrepresented the foundations of resource management, nature conservation, and environemtnal protection. In this paper, we sysntesize recent developments that advance our understandings of equilibrium vs. nonequilibrium, homogeneity vs. heterogeneity, determinism vs. stochasticity, and single-sclae phenomenon vs. hierarchical linkages in ecological systems. The integration of patch dynamics with hierarchy theory has led to new perspectives in spatial and temporal dynamics, with explicit linkage between scale and heterogeneity. The major elements of the hierarchical patch dynamics paradigm include the idea of nested hirarchies of patch mosaics, ecosystem dynamics as a composite of patch changes in time and space, the pattern-process-scale perspecitve, the nonequilibrium perspective, and the concepts of incorporation and metastability. Both enviromental stochasticities and biotic feedback interactions can cause instability and contribute to the dynamcis observed a various scales. Stabilizing mechanisms that dampen these destabilizing forces include spatial incorporation, environmental disturbances, biological compensatory mechanisms, and heterogeneity absorpion. Hierarchical patch dynamics incorporates certain "emergent properties" of ecological system, such as metastabilityor persistence at the meta-scale, as opposed to the transient dynamics that usually characterize local phenomena. In contrast to the stability that derives from an assumed self-regulation in a closed system, the concepts of incorporation and metastability deal explicity with multiple-scale processes and the consequences of heterogeneity. The most imporatant contribution of hierarchical patch dynamics lies in the framework provided for explicitly incorporating heterogeneity and scale, and for integrating equilibrium, multiple equilibrium, and nonequilibrium perspectives.
3036240|Almost all human population exhibit seasonal variation in births, owing mostly to seasonal variation in the frequency of conception. This review focuses on the degree to which environmental factors like nutrition, temperature and photoperiod contribute to these seasonal patterns by acting directly on the reproductive axis. The reproductive strategy of humans is basically that of the apes: Humans have the capacity to reproduce continuously, albeit slowly, unless inhibited by environmental influences. Two, and perhaps three, environmental factors probably act routinely as seasonal inhibitors in some human populations. First, it seems likely that ovulation is regulated seasonally in populations experiencing seasonal variation in food availability. More specifically, it seems likely that inadequate food inatake or the increased energy expenditure required to obtain food, or both, can delay menarche, suppress the frequency of ovulation in the nonlactating adult, and prolong lactational amenorrhea in these populations on a seasonal basis. This action is most easily seen in tropical subsistence societies where food availability often varies greatly owing to seasonal variation in rainfall; hence births in these populations often correlate with rainfall. Second, it seems likely that seasonally high temperatures suppress spermatogenesis ecough to influence the incidence of fertilization in hotter latitudes, but possibly only in males wearing clothing that diminishes scrotal cooling. Since most of our knowledge about this phenomenon comes from temperate latitudes, the sensitivity of spermatogenesis in both human and nonhuman primates to heat in the tropics needs further study. It is quite possible that high temperatures suppress ovulation and early embryo survival seasonally in some of these same populations. Since we know less than desired about the effect of heat stress on ovulation and early pregnancy in nonhuman mammals, and nothing at all about it in humans or any of the other primates, this is an important area for future research. Thrid, correlational data suggest that there may be some degree of regulation of reproduction by photoperiod in humans at middle to higher latitudes. Populations at these latitudes often show a peak in presumed conceptions associated with the vernal equinox. On the other hand, evidence gathered by neuroendocrinologists tends to argue against reproductive photoresponsiveness in humans.
3036241|Persistence of individual differences in animal behavior in reactions to various environmental challenges could reflect basic divergences in temperament, which might be used to predict details of adaptive response. Although studies have been carried out on fear and anxiety in various species, including laboratory, domestic and wild animals, no consistent definition of fearfulness as a basic trait of temperament has emerged. After a classification of the events that may produce a state of fear, this article describes the great variability in behavior and in physiological patterns generally associated with emotional reactivity. The difficulties of proposing fearfulness-the general capacity to react to a variety of potentially threatening situations-as a valid basic internal variable are then discussed. Although there are many studies showing covariation among the psychobiological responses to different environmental challenges, other studies find no such correlations and raise doubts about the interpretation of fearfulness as a basic personality trait. After a critical assessment of methodologies used in fear and anxiety studies, it is suggested that discrepancies among results are mainly due to the modulation of emotional responses in animals, which depend on numerous genetic and epigenetic factors. It is difficult to compare results obtained by different methods from animals reared under various conditions and with different genetic origins. The concept of fearfulness as an inner trait is best supported by two kinds of investigations. First, an experimental approach combining ethology and experimental psychology produces undeniable indicators of emotional reactivity. Second, genetic lines selected for psychobiological traits prove useful in establishing between behavioral and neuroendocrine aspects of emotional reactivity. It is suggested that fearfulness could be considered a basic feature of the temperament of each individual, one that predisposes it to respond similarly to a variety of potentially alarming challenges, but is nevertheless continually modulated during development by the interaction of genetic traits of reactivity with environmental factors, particularly in the juvenile period. Such interaction may explain much of the interindividual variability observed in adaptive responses.
3035722|A large fraction, sometimes the largest fraction, of a eukaryotic genome consists of repeated DNA sequences. Copy numbers range from several thousand to millions per diploid genome. All classes of repetitive DNA sequences examined to date exhibit apparently general, but little studied, patterns of "concerted evolution." Historically, concerted evolution has been defined as the nonindependent evolution of repetitive of repetitive DNA sequences, resulting in a sequence similarity of repeating units that is greater within than among species. This intraspecific homogenization of repetitive sequence arrays is said to take place via the poorly understood mechanisms of "molecular drive." The evolutionary populations dynamics of molecular drive remains largely unstudied in natural populations, and thus the potential significance of these evolutionary dynamics for population differentiation is unknown. This review attemps to demonstrate the potential importance of the mechanisms responsible for concerted evolution in the differentiation of populations. It contends that any natural grouping that is characterized by reproductive isolation and limited gene flow is capable of exhibiting concerted evolution of repetitive DNA arrays. Such effects are known to occur in protein and RNA-coding repetitive sequences, as well as in so-called "junk DNA," and thus have important implications for the differentiation and discrimination of natural populations.
3035721|Processes governing metamerization and the subsequent differentiation of metameres are well known in Drosophila. It is little known, However, to what extent the metameric patterns in Drosophila can be extended to other arthropods and related metameric animals, how the known diversity of metameric patterns and processes should be evolutionarily interpreted, and what the relationship is between their morphological and developmental features. We review the aspects of Drosophila development that involve compartmentalization, parasegmentation, (meta)segmentation, patterns of muscke development, clonal compositions of metameric domains, and the correpsondence between clonally and/or genetically defined boundaries and adult structures. These regularities are compared with what little is known of these phenomena in other insects, crustaceans, millipedes, centipees, onychophorans, and polychaete and clitellate annelids. Both parasegmental and metasegmental metamerism are probably characteristic of all the arthropods and annelids. Developmentally, the annelid segments (as well as segments of the hypothetical soft-bodied prearthropod ancestor) cannot be identified with parasegments (sensu Minelli and Bortoletto). The alleged primary segments (sensu Snodgrass) do not correspond to any identified developmental body metameres in arthropods; moreover, they aree not recapitulated during ontogeny, and "primary" as parasegmentation and metasegmentation, while developmentally the latest of them. The anteriormost areas of the definite segments (metasegments) do not show any traces of being secondarily incorporated in these metasegments as required by the established hypothesis of concurrent phylogenetic and ontogenetic switch from primary to secondary body segmentation.
2823106|The biological, social, and legal aspects of work on the fertilization of human ova in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos into the uterus of the mother are considered by a scientist engaged in these studies. The initial parts of the review provide descriptions of studies on the control of ovulation, and the methods developed for the culture of cleaving animal and human embryos. The main part of the review is devoted to the moral and ethical aspects of such studies. An outline description is given, first, of the development of clinical methods in various fields, together with a consideration of the methods of fetal screening necessary in work on the reimplantation of human embryos. The position of the infertile patients, in relation to the development of studies on fertilization in vitro, is then discussed, including the assessment of some opinions expressed on the therapeutic nature of treatments based on the reimplantation of embryos. A brief description of genetic engineering, including its imminence, practicability, and dangers, is then given. Some theological, philosophical, and legal aspects of fertilization in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos are debated in the final sections of the review. These sections include a commentary on current discussions about the philosophical and theological aspects of the work. Descriptions are given of some examples in law relevant to clinical attempts to alleviate infertility. together with a consideration of the legal relationship between patients, offspring, and those doctors and scientists engaged in these clinical studies.
2825234|This review organizes ideas on the evolution of life histories. The key life-history traits are brood size, size of young, the age distribution of reproductive effort, the interaction of reproductive effort with adutl mortality, and the variation in these traits among an individual's progeny. The general theoretical problem is to predict which combinations of traits will evolve in organisms living in specified circumstances. First consider single traits. Theorists have made the following predictions: (1) Where adult exceeds juvenile mortality, the organism should reproduce only once in its lifetime. Where juvenile exceeds adult mortality, the organism should reproduce several times. (2) Brood size should maximize the number of young surviving to maturity, summed over the lifetime of the parent. But when optimum brood-size varies unpredictably in time, smaller broods should be favored because they decrease the chances of total failure on a given attempt. (3) In expanding populations, selection should minimize age at maturity. In stable populations, when reproductive success depends on size, age, or social status, or when adult exceeds juvenile mortality, then maturation should be delayed, as it should be in declining populations. (4) Young should increase in size at birth with increased predation risk, and decrease in size with increased resource availability. Theorists have also predicted that only particular combinations of traits should occur in specified circumstances. (5) In growing populations, age at maturity should be minimized, reproductive effort concentrated early in life, and brood size increased. (6) One view holds that in stable environments, late maturity, multiple broods, a few, large young, parental care, and small reproductive efforts should be favored (K-selection). In fluctuating environments, early maturity, many small young, reduced parental care, and large reproductive efforts should be favored (r-selection). (7) But another view holds that when juvenile mortality fluctuates more than adult mortality, the traits associated with stable and fluctuating environments should be reversed. We need experiments that test the assumptions and predictions reviewed here, more comprehensive theory that makes more readily falsifiable predictions, and examination of different definitions of fitness.
2825235|Much evidence suggests that intrinsic molecular or cellular aging mechanisms need not be invoked to explain most age-related cellular changes and pathological conditions. Analysis of a widely scattered literature indicates that hormones and neural factors regulate a great number of cellular aging phenomena of mammals. It is proposed that age-related changes after maturation result from an extension of the neural and endocrine mechanisms that control earlier development and that produce a regulatory cascade of changing neural, endocrine, and target-tissue interactions.
2823123|In order to understand better the evolution and adaptive value of hibernation, ecological aspects and experimental studies of closely related hibernators, the Marmotini, are examined. The central hypthesis is that annual changes in the environment integrate three or, perhaps, four physiological processes: torpor, reproduction, consumption of food, and metabolism. Reproduction occurs promptly after emergence from hibernation. For most species, the breeding season is very short. Although the experimental data are rather meager, no variation in external factors has consistently altered the season of reproduction. Consumption of food and change in weight increases until July or September and then decreases. The large members of the Marmotini store their energy as fat, but small species store their energy as seeds and nuts. Experiments to test the hypothesis that some aspect of the supply, such as fat content, might vary seasonally have produced negative results. Complex experiments on the length of the photoperiod on woodchucks and several species of ground squirrels failed to alter the annual cycle of consumption of food. Animals kept in constant conditions showed a cycle of about 11 months, but woodchucks sent to Australia changed their cycle in two years to match the seasons of the southern hemisphere. Experiments with temperature and torpor and castration did not alter the annual rhythm. Metabolism has an annual cycle of increase and decrease, even in animals that are not permitted to become torpid. Factors that might influence torpor have been extensively tested in laboratory experiments. Individuals kept at low temperature without food will enter torpor in any month of the year. In summer it is necessary to deprive an animal of food for 3 to 4 weeks to initiate torpor, but in winter, 3 to 4 hours may suffice. Various lengths of photoperiod or changes of photoperiod throughout the year have failed to cause animals to enter torpor or to arouse. A reduction of the consumption of food or absence of food was necessary for torpor. Deprivation of water seems to induce torpor. An annual cycle of consumption of food (and water) dominates the control of the occurrence of hibernation. In nature when the decline in consumption coincides with low temperatures, the animals begin hibernation. The consumption of food follows and annual rhythm which apparently becomes synchronized with the environment at about the age of two years. Endogenicity of the rhythm is demonstrated by several sets of evidence: (1) the rhythm runs freely at about 11 months duration; (2) the period is independent of the temperature; (3) entrainment has been demonstrated. As yet, no data demonstrating a phase response curve has become available. The adaptive value of the annual rhythm is apparent. Torpor is a splendid mechanism for conserving energy in the season of scarcity by lowering the metabolic functions. The existence of a biological alarm clock is necessary to arouse the individual. After arousal the individuals consume little food, but at the season of abundance, they consume large quantities. Interpretation of the results described in this review recognizes that some physiological processes are controlled by annual clocks and others by circadian clocks. For example, the analysis of the relation of photoperiod to the increase in size of gonads of many birds and mammals suggests that a circadian rhythm controls the cycle. But a woodchuck requires two years when individuals are transplanted to a different hemisphere to change their cycle of consumption. Thus, it is possible that the circannual rhythm controls some physiological functions, while a circadian clock controls other functions.
2823629|In recent years, the evidence suggesting that honey bees communicate with a "dance language" has been strongly attacked on both theoretical and experimental grounds. An alternative theory has been proposed by which bees are supposed to use only odors to locate sources of food. A review of the evolution of the controversy isolates and analyzes the main issues. Early experiments which sought to add controls for forager odors are shown to be inherently ambiguous. The fundamental problem in this important dispute has been that dancing bees advertise a food location with site-specific odor information as well as symbolic distance and direction coordinates. A new technique has overcome this problem and demonstrated that von Frisch's dance language theory is, on the whole, correct. The apparently contradictory results of Wenner and his colleagues are shown to be due to their techniques for training bees. The dance-language controversy raises issues beyond how bees communicate. These include whether and when "evolutionary" arguments are useful, and to what extent Kuhn's scientific revolution paradigm fits the dispute.
2823630|Females are larger than males in more species of mammals than is generally supposed. A provisional list of the mammalian cases is provided. The phenomenon is not correlated with an unusually large degree of male parental investment, polyandry, greater aggressiveness in females than in males, greater development of weapons in females, female dominance, or matriarchy. The phenomenon may have evolved in a variety of ways, but it is rarely, if ever, the result of sexual selection acting upon the females sex. The most common selective pressures favoring large size in female mammals are probably those associated with the fact that a big mother is often a better mother and those resulting from more intense competition among females for some resource than among males. It appears that, in general, more than one such pressure must affect the females of a species, and that their combined effects must not be countered by even stronger selective pressures favoring large size in males, before the result is that of larger size in the female sex. Sexual selection may often be operating upon the male sex in mammals even when it is the smaller. Present knowledge about the species of mammals in which females are larger than males is quite rudimentary. Much more information is needed before we will be able to speak of the selective pressures accounting for the phenomenon with any reasonable degree of certainty. Perhaps the most fruitful approach would be a series of field studies of groups of related species in which females are larger in some species and males are larger in others.
2824863|Lizards thermoregulate by behavioral and physiological adjustments. The resultant control over metabolic processes is generally assumed to be beneficial. However, these thermoregulatory adjustments have associated costs which, if extensive, make thermoregulation impractical. We extend this idea into an abstract mathematical, cost-benefit model of thermoregulation in lizards. Investigation of the model leads to a set of predictions which includes: (1) the physiologically optimal temperature is not always the ecologically optimal temperature; (2) thermoregulation is beneficial only when associated costs are low; (3) thermal specialists will normally thermoregulated more carefully than thermal generalists unless costs are high; and (4) lizards will thermoregulate more carefully if productivity of the habitat is increased or if exploitation competition is reduced. Data on lizards, where available, generally agree with these predictions.
2824864|The relationship between biological and cultural evolution is of major importance to the study of human ecology and social behavior. This paper argues that to an important and generally unrecognized extent, culture may evolve by the selective retention of non-genetic of traits that enhance the ability of individual human beings to survive and reproduce in a given environment. This implies that biological and cultural evolution may be truly complemetary. If so, it makes no sense either to view biological and cultural adaptations as independent phenomena or to assert that all forms of adaptation result from natural selection. The possible coevolution of human biology and culture therefore has important implications for understanding why people do what they do. In an attempt to asses the validity of a coevolutionary approach to human behavior, one of the favorite topics of the biology versus culture, instinct versus learning controversy is reconsidered: intergroup aggression. First, a model is proposed to account for the presence or absence of intergroup aggression resulting from resource competition between human social groups. From combined measures of resource deprivation and relative capability, the model predicts conditions where aggressive intergroup behavior would have a net benefit for the survival and reproduction of the individual aggresors despite its inherent costs. These predictions are then compared with several examples in a review of war and peace among small, stateless human societies. The evidence is consisten which the hypothesis that individuals maximize their survival and reproduction by living in social groups and participating in collective aggression when access to scare resources at stake. It is concluded that aggressive intergroup behavior may often be adaptive for individuals under conditions of resource competition and that this may help to explain the prevalence of warfare among human societies.
2827599|Is there, as claimed, scientific support for "scientific creationism"? If so, arguments that scientific creationism is a legitimate scientific discipline deserving "equal time" with evolution in public-school science classes would be strengthened. An early study (Cole and Scott, 1982) revealed that 28 prominent creationists did not publish articles dealing with empirical, experimental or theoretical evidence for the scientific creationist "model" in over 4000 journals covered by the data-retrieval system SCISEARCH. To see if other scientific creationists were publishing proofs of creation, we surveyed editors of 68 journals to which scientific creationists would be likely to submit articles on this subject. Out of over 135,000 submissions from 1980 to 1983, only 18 dealt with empirical, experimental, or theoretical support for scientific creationism, and 12 of these went to one science education journal alone. No creationist articles have been published, although three were still under review at the time of this study. Papers were rejected due to poor scholarship, with editors commenting that the articles appeared to have been written by laymen rather than professional scientists. A number of differences are apparent in comparing the scholarship found in "in house" creation science sources and "mainline" scientific journals. Although scientific creationists complain that "completely scientific papers" would be rejected out of hand by "mainline" journals, it is obvious that none have been submitted. Outside of creationism outlets, then, there is no "scientific" creationism. We have documented this as a service to the teachers, professors, and lawyers who are striving to maintain high standards of science education in the face of pressures to introduce non-scientific concepts into the public school classroom.
2827598|Infanticide in a variety of species, has been reported anecdotally in the scientific literature for many years. Hypotheses concerning its underlying causes have ranged from infanticide as a means of population control, and hence adaptive to groups of organisms, to infanticide as a maladaptive social pathology in populations subjected to severe overcrowding. Recently, infanticide has been viewed as an adaptive behavioral "strategy" that may enhance the reproductive success of individual animals, particularly males. This "sexual selection" hypothesis suggests that males benefit from killing unrelated young because they eliminate parental investment in offspring they have not sired. The loss of a nursing infant also removes the endocrine inhibition o estrus in potential mates and permits the siring of additional offspring sooner than would be possible if the female continued to lactate. Many researchers have studied the role of infanticide in nature, especially in primates. While many studies suggest that infanticide enhances the fitness of male primates, there are no data that demonstrates differences in lifetime reproductive success between infanticidal and non-infanticidal males. Many published accounts have attributed infant mortality to "presumed infanticide." Female counterresponses to infanticide by males have been suggested, but have not been examined systematically. Whether any female primates normally kill unrelated young is unknown. Infanticide research in laboratories or zoos is excluded for most species (especially primates) because those environments can only approximate natural conditions, and because most scientists consider such research unethical. These problems have been overcome to some extent by examining infanticide in rodents in both the laboratory and field. Because both male and female rodents may be infanticidal, a more comprehensive approach to sudying and understanding this behavior is possible. Statistically reliable sample sizes, carefully controlled environments and manipulations, and comparisons of behavior among species and among genetically homogeneous strains of rodents have also contributed to a dynamic new effort to understand the causes and functions of infanticidal behavior. This article discusses the many studies of rodent infanticide that have emerged in this decade. We summarize this work and analyze the way in which different methodologies and perspectives may have contributed to the conflicting results and conclusions apparent in the literature on rodent infanticide. Data from laboratory studies are compared and placed in context with what is known about the social structures and population dynamics of rodents in nature. In this article we maintain that infanticide is an overt behavioral manifestation with many motivational bases; the same behavior may increase individual fitness of both males and females, but for different reasons. We demonstrate that generalizations about the function or evolution of infanticide in rodents based upon data from one species or strain of rodent are at present unwarranted. Finally, questions and interdisciplinary avenues for future research are suggested.
2827600|Current unease over the adequacy of neo-Darwinism as an explanation of many evolutionary events has led to a refurbishing of ideas expressed during the 1940s (and later) by Richard Goldschmidt; these include the concepts of "macromutations" and "hopeful monsters." Because Goldschmidt's ideas in their original form were defined, tested, and found wanting, a revival of their descriptive labels generates confusion and should be discouraged. Many persons who are opposed to neo-Darwinism believe that much of molecular genetics lies outside the conceptual framework of population genetics; this belief is wrong. As a branch of genetics, population genetics embraces (indeed, must embrace) molecular findings, many of which have already been incorporated into the fabric of population and evolutionary genetics.
2829806|The firefly flash is a signal in a courtship system based upon timing patterns controlled by the brain. Courtship flash codes supply both species and sex identification and rely on precise timing and stereotypy of one or a few temporal parameters to preserve information. The flash control system is physiologically complex. It involves random physiological fluctuations that tend to introduce variability into communication and thus to degrade information transfer. To understand the physiological basis of flash communication it is therefore essential to establish the limits of fluctuation within which the entire system must operate. The physiological processes that are so variable involve sensory reception, central integration, and the output of an unusual neuroeffector (the firefly lantern). For example, the pattern generators of fireflies must be primed to operate with sufficient precision. Insufficiently primed animals produce flashes of abnormal kinetics and timing. Flashing behavior of fireflies is greatly affected by the animal's state of arousal; quiescent fireflies are induced to flash with difficulty, whereas excited animals produce rapid and varied luminescent emissions. Also, the firefly's visual apparatus is highly specialized for the reception of fast transient flashes, and its ability to process other types of photic information remains unknown. Finally, and perhaps most significantly, the flash pattern generators of fireflies can be entrained by incoming flashes to produce, in females, responses of appropiate delay; and in males, flash synchrony. Lloyd (1981b) has proposed that aggressive mimicry by Photuris femmes fatales has had a great evolutionary impact on the flash codes of prey firefly species. This mimicry may represent a simple entrainment of Photurius females to a wide array of flash patterns. The precision of flash behavior should be measured in females of known physiological state and previous flash history in order to asses the effect of mimicry on firefly courtship behavior.
2829808|Auditory signals mediate two important classes of behavior for crickets. In one of these-mating behavior-male crickets produce species-specific calling songs that serve to attract conspecific females for mating. The production of calling songs by males and their recognition by females requires the "coupling" or coordination of two different behavioral acts around a specific acoustic signal. Two hypotheses about how this "behavioral coupling" might be achieved in crickets as well as in other animals are discussed in this review. In addition, the problems of how temporal patterns of the male's calling song might be encoded and recognized by females is discussed in terms of two current hypotheses-the 30 Hz "simplicity" hypothesis and the more complex "trade-off" hypothesis. A second class of behaviors is also medicated by acoustic signals: predator detection. Evidence is presented that crickets, which fly at night, are subject to predation by insectivorous bats that use ultrasonic biosonar signals to detect them. The behavior displayed by crickets in response to ultrasonic stimulation closely resembles that of moths and green lacewings, which are two insects that are known to be preyed upon by bats.
2829807|Insects react to the colors, odors, tastes, and chemical reactivity of organic molecules with stereotyped behaviors and physiological changes. Specific examples are chosen to illustrate the responses of insects to subtle changes in molecular properties such as shape, functionally, branching, polarity, stereochemistry, and chirality. The intricate sociochemical interactions possible in termites are exampined in detail.
2828392|Insular lizards, birds, and mammals in high-density populations often exhibit reduced situation-specific aggression toward conspecifics. This aggressive behavior can be expressed in the form of (1) reduced territory sizes, (2) increased territory overlap with neighbors, (3) acceptance of subordinates on the territory, (4) reduced aggressiveness to certain classes of conspecifics, or (5) abandonment of territorial defense. These behavioral traits can be explained by two nonexclusive hypotheses. The resource hypothesis suggests that territorial behavior is primarily adjusted to resource densities, and that resources are more abundant on islands than on the mainland (e.g., because of a lack of competing species). The defense hypothesis suggests that, in addition to any effects of resources, the costs of defense againsts both territorial intruders and contenders for vacant territories are higher on islands. Recent theoretical and empirical studies indicate that these behavioral changes can occur as a result of elevated defense costs, independent of resource densities. Reduced predation, more benign climates, and an absence of habitat sinks on islands would all tend to increase the density of potential intruders and contenders, and hence the costs of defense for owners of insular territories. The two hypotheses differ in their predictions about the rates of biomass production (growth or reproduction) for holders of insular territories. Reproductive and growth data from insular mainland pairs indicate the importance of elevated defense costs, and also suggest that many insular vertebrates reallocate their breeding resources so as to produce young that are more competitive. The suite of ecological and behavioral traits exhibited by insular territorial vertebrates can best be explained by three factors operating in concert: higher available resource densities, higher defense costs, and (sometimes) a reallocation of resources to produce young that are more competitive.
2828391|The glycosyltransferases may be the evolutionary precursors of the immunoglobulins, although critical evidence for this hypothesis is not yet available. The transferases add sugars to non-glycosylated proteins, lipids, and organic molecules, as well as to oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, and glycolipids. The enzymes are specific, extremely polymorphic, occasionally inducible, and may be structurally related to one another. Circumstantial evidence links the transferases to both the MHC and T/t loci in the mouse. Finally, antibodies against purified transferases are difficult to produce and sometimes they react with immunoglobulins. The present hypothesis predicts that transferases should show some sequence homology with immunoglobulins, and that some MHC proteins will be glycosyltransferases.
2828504|Developmental constraints (defined as biases on the production of variant phenotypes or limitations on phenotypic variability caused by the structure, character, composition, or dynamics of the developmental system) undoubtedly play a significant role in evolution. Yet there is little agreement on their importance as compared with selection, drift, and other such factors in shaping evolutionary history. This review distinguishes between "universal" and "local" constraints; it deals primarily with the latter, which apply to a limited range of taxa. Such constraints, typically, can be broken even within the taxa to which they apply, though with varying degrees of difficulty. The origin of constraints is discussed, five distinctive of constraint being explicitly considered. Three means of identifying constraints are set forth, as well as four means of distinguishing developmental from selective constraints. None of the latter (use of a priori adaptive predictions, direct measurement of selection, direct measurement of heritable variation, and use of the comparative method) is foolproof. In the final section, three larger issues regarding the role of developmental constraints in evolution are discussed: the extent to which evolutionary stasis can be explained in developmental terms, the extend to which evolutionary trends and patterns might be a consequence of developmental constraints, and the extent to which various genetic and developmental mechanisms have evolved in virtue of the need of lineages to manifest evolutionary plasticity (or adaptability) if they are to survive. Although no definitive conclusions are reached on these larger issues, we bring recent advances in developmental biology, evolutionary theory, and (to a limited extent) molecular biology to bear on them.
2828505|This review is concerned with the mechanical forces that cause epithelial sheets to invaginate during morphogenesis. Interest in this problem is currently increasing and a variety of models, each with a different emphasis, have been formulated to explain mechanical aspects of epithelial folding. A critical evaluation of the experimental evidence bearing on this problem leads to the following conclusions. (1) The most popular model of invagination, one based on microfilament-mediated cell shape change, should be re-examined, given the limitations of the experimental evidence usually offered in its support. Recent experiments with permeabilized epithelia offer a promising approach for confirming the validity of this model. (2) Current hypotheses based on disparities in the adhesive properties of epithelial cells are consistent with available data, but appear to be impossible to test directly at this time. (3) There is evidence that suggests that cell growth and division are involved in invagination during the branching morphogenesis of some epithelio-mesenchymal organs, but it has been shown that these processes are not involved in other cases. (4) Recent studies demonstrate that some epithelial invaginations are accompanied by movements of cells, both in the form of rearrangement (exchange of nearest neighbors) and involution (flow of surrounding cells into the invaginating region). (5) A general conclusion that may be drawn from the data now available is that several different mechanisms of epithelial folding operate during morphogenesis.
2828507|Genetics textbooks have been remarkably unaffected by the discovery of fraud in the work of British psychologist Sir Cyril Burt or by the resulting critical review of other classic studies on the genetics of intelligence. Although Burt's name has nearly vanished from current textbooks, his results continue to be cited in textbook discussions of the heritability of intelligence, as do the results of other studies now recognized as methodologically inadequate. Moreover, genetics textbooks consistently employ confused or misleading definitions of the concept of heritability that, together with the reporting of discredited data, perpetuate a fundamentally inaccurate understanding of the genetics of intelligence. This situation is largely attributable to the practice-generic to textbook writing but in this case taken to an extreme-of authors' liberal borrowing from one another or from a few apparently authoritative works (including earlier textbooks). The extent to which authors rely on these sources for their discussion of the genetics of intelligence is apparently a function both of the controversiality of the subject and of authors' technical insecurity, perhaps reinforced by prior assumptions about the influence of genes on variations in intellectual performance.
2830331|This paper proposes that the mammalian immune response known as "allergy" evolved as a last line of defense against the extensive array of toxic substances that exist in the environment in the form of secondary plant compounds and venoms. Whereas nonimmunological defenses typically can target only classes of toxins, the immune system is uniquely capable of the fine-tuning required to target selectively the specific molecular configurations of individual toxins. Toxic substances are commonly allergenic. The pharmacological chemicals released by the body's mast cells during an IgE antibody-mediated allergic response typically cause vomiting, diarrhea, coughing, tearing, sneezing, or scratching, which help to expel from the body the toxic substance that triggered the response; individuals frequently develop aversions to substances that have triggered such responses. A strong allergic response often includes a decrease in blood pressure, which slows the rate at which toxins circulate to target organs. The immune system identifies as toxic the following kinds of substances: (1) those low-molecular-weight substances that bind covalently to serum proteins (e.g., many plant toxins); (2) nontoxic proteins that act as carriers of toxins with low molecular weights (e.g., plant proteins associated with plant toxins); (3) specific substances of high molecular weight that harmed individuals in ancestral mammalian populations for a span of time that was significant from the standpoint of natural selection (e.g., the toxic proteins of bee venom). Substances that bind covalently to serum proteins generally are acutely toxic, and because many of these substances also bind covalently to the DNA of target cells, they are potentially mutagenic and carcinogenic as well. Thus, by protecting against acute toxicity, allergy may also defend against mutagens and carcinogens. The toxin hypothesis explains the main phenomena of allergy: why IgE-mediated allergies usually occur within minutes of exposure to an allergen and why they are often so severe; why the manifestations of allergy include vomiting, diarrhea, coughing, sneezing, scratching, tearing, and a drop in blood pressure; why covalent binding of low-molecular-weights substances to serum proteins frequently causes allergy; why allergies occur to many foods, pollens, venoms, metals, and drugs; why allergic cross-reactivity occurs to foods and pollen from unrelated botanical families; why allergy appears to be so capricious and variable; and why allergy is more prevalent in industrial societies than it is in foraging societies. This hypothesis also has implications for the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of allergy.
2830330|While evolution by natural selection has long been a foundation for biomedical science, it has recently gained new power to explain many aspects of disease. This progress results largely from the disciplined application of what has been called the adaptationist program. We show that this increasingly significant research paradigm can predict otherwise unsuspected facets of human biology, and that it provides new insights into the causes of medical disorders, such as those discussed below: 1. Infection. Signs and symptoms of the host-parasite contest can be categorized according to whether they represent adaptations or costs for host or parasite. Some host adaptations may have contributed to fitness in the Stone Age but are obsolete today. Others, such as fever and iron sequestration, have been incorrectly considered harmful. Pathogens, with their large populations and many generations in a single host, can evolve very rapidly. Acquisition of resistance to antibiotics is one example. Another is the recently demonstrated tendency to change virulence levels in predictable ways in response to changed conditions imposed incidentally by human activities. 2. Injuries and toxins. Mechanical injuries or stressful wear and tear are conceptually simpler than infectious diseases because they are not contests between conflicting interests. Plant-herbivore contests may often underlie chemical injury from the defensive secondary compounds of plant tissues. Nausea in pregnancy, and allergy, may be adaptations against such toxins. 3. Genetic factors. Common genetic diseases often result from genes maintained by other beneficial effects in historically normal environments. The diseases of aging are especially likely to be associated with early benefits. 4. Abnormal environments. Human biology is designed for Stone Age conditions. Modern environments may cause many diseases-for example, deficiency syndromes such as scurvy and rickets, the effects of excess consumption of normally scarce nutrients such as fat and salt, developmental diseases such as myopia, and psychological reactions to novel environments. The substantial benefits of evolutionary studies of disease will be realized only if they become central to medical curricula, an advance that may at first require the establishment of one or more research centers dedicated to the further development of Darwinian medicine.
2831327|Data on 15 physical characteristics of contenders in 137 championship prizefights in three weight categories (light-, middle-, and heavyweights) have been analysed. These data are seen as being drawn from a highly culled population, and as bearing on what are, in effect, components of fitness. In heavyweights, the analysis suggests that these characteristics are indeed related to winning or losing (i.e., they are selectively important). As an overwhelmingly general rule, however, winners and losers do not differ significantly with respect to these measures nor, for the lighter weight classes, is there evidence of stabilizing selection. The exceptions to this general rule are discussed ("just-so" story): under some circumstances, a correlation between total fitness and one of its components may be detected in a highly selected population. Under most circumstances, on the contrary, this correlation all but vanishes.
2831326|Ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences have been aligned and compared in a number of living organisms, and this approach has provided a wealth of information about phylogenetic relationships. Studies of rDNA sequences have been used to infer phylogenetic history across a very broad spectrum, from studies among the basal lineages of life to relationships among closely related species and populations. The reasons for the systematic versatility of rDNA include the numerous rates of evolution among different regions of rDNA (both among and within genes), the presence of many copies of most rDNA sequences per genome, and the pattern of concerted evolution that occurs among repeated copies. These features facilitate the analysis of rDNA by direct RNA sequencing, DNA sequencing (either by cloning or amplification), and restriction enzyme methodologies. Constraints imposed by secondary structure of rRNA and concerted evolution need to be considered in phylogenetic analyses, but these constraint do not appear to impede seriously the usefulness of rDNA. An analysis of aligned sequences of the four nuclear and two mitochondrial rRNA genes identified regions of these genes that are likely to be useful to address phylogenetic problems over a wide range of levels of divergence. In general, the small subunit nuclear sequences appear to be best for elucidating Precambrian divergences, the large subunit nuclear sequences for Paleozoic and Mesozoic divergences, and the organellar sequences of both subunits for Cenozoic divergences. Primer sequences were designed for use in amplifying the entire nuclear rDNA array in 15 sections by use of the polymerase chaim reaction; these "universal" primers complement previously described primers for the mitochondrial rRNA genes. Pair of primers can be selected in conjunction with the analysis of divergence of the rRNA genes to address systematic problems throughout the hierarchy of life.
2831325|Insects as a group have been especially successful in adapting to subzero temperatures. Typically, an integration of behavioral and developmental adaptations, as well as physiological and biochemical ones, are required to achieve overwintering success. In keeping with the tremendous adaptive radiation of the group, individual species often exhibit considerable variation in the particular set of adaptations by which they achieve the ability to survive subzero temperatures. Two fundamental physiological mechanisms are (1) freeze tolerance, adaptations that confer the abilty to survive extracellular ice formation, and (2) freeze avoidance (freeze resistance), adaptations that prevent freezing. Different populations of the same species, however, may exhibit different mechanisms, and even the same population may vary its overwintering mechanism from year to year. Feeze-avoidance adaptations usually involve production of antifreezes. These may be antifreeze proteins or colligative-type antifreezes, such as glycerol, which are often produced in molar concentrations. Antifreezes function not only to depress the freezing point, but also to extend the ability to supercool, an important factor since most species are protected by the cuticle from inoculation by external ice. Supercooling may also be extended by the removal of ice nucleators from the body fluids, either on an evolutionary-time scale or on a seasonal basis. Freeze-tolerance adaptations are likewise quite diverse. Most freeze-tolerant insects accumulate high levels of cryoprotectants, usually polyols (i.e., glycerol and sorbitol) and sugars (i.e., trehalose). The potential role of less traditional cryoprotectants, such as amino acids and methylamines, has not been properly investigated. Many freze-tolerant species produce extracellular ice nucleators, typically hemolymph proteins, which induce nucleation at fairly high subzero temperatures and thereby inhibit lethal intracellular ice formation. Some freeze-tolerant insects, however, have removed ice nucleators completely and supercool to - 50 to - 60
2830229|Sex-determining mechanisms in reptiles can be divided into two convenient classifications: genotypic (GSD) and environmental (ESD). While a number of types of GSD have been identified in a wide variety of reptilian taxa, the expression of ESD in the form of temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in three of the five major reptilian lineages has drawn considerable attention to this area of research. Increasing interest in sex-determining mechanisms in reptiles has resulted in many data, but much of this information is scattered throughout the literature and consequently difficult to interpret. It is known, however, that distinct sex chromosomes are absent in the tuatara and crocodilians, rare in amphisbaenians (worm lizards) and turtles, and common in lizards and snakes (but less than 20% of all species of living reptiles have been karyotyped). With less than 2 percent of all reptilian species examined, TSD apparently is absent in the tuatara, amphisbaenians and snakes; rare in lizards, frequent in turtles, and ubiquitous in crocodilians. Despite considerable inter-and intranspecific variation in the threshold temperature (temperature producing a 1:1 sex ratio) of gonadal sex determination, this variation cannot confidently be assigned a genetic basis owing to uncontrolled environmental factors or to differences in experimental protocol among studies. Laboratory studies have identified the critical period of development during which gonadal sex determination occurs for at least a dozen species. There are striking similarities in this period among the major taxa with TSD. Examination of TSD in the field indicates that sex ratios of hatchlings are affectd by location of the nests, because some nests produce both sexes whereas the majority produce only one sex. Still, more information is needed on how TSD operates under natural conditions in order to fully understand its ecological and conservation implications. TSD may be the ancestral sex-determining condition in reptiles, but this result remains tentative. Physiological investigations of TSD have clarified the roles of steroid hormones, various enzymes, and H-Y antigen in sexual differentiation, whereas molecular studies have identified several plausible candidates for sex-determining genes in species with TSD. This areas of research promises to elucidate the mechanism of TSD in reptiles and will have obvious implications for understanding the basis of sex determination in other vertebrates. Experimental and comparative investigations of the potential adaptive significance of TSD appear equally promising, although much work remains to be performed. The distribution of TSD within and among the major reptilian lineages may be related to the life span of individuals of a species and to the biogeography of these species. Answers to many of the questions and tests concerning TSD in reptiles would be facilitated by controlling the conditions of incubation, by standardizing the experimental design, and by depositing voucher specimens in accessible collections after completion of the study. Goals for future research are discussed.... pure observation of the normal developmental processes proves absolutely unsuited to elucidate the question how the alternative between the two possible sexes is decided, i.e., how the sex is determined. Only experiments can possibly reveal what part is played by hereditary factors and which are the physiological realizators to stimulate the morphological differentiation (Witschi, 1929). In the absence of experimental data, it would be mere speculation to attempt a statements as to nature of the sex-determining factors and the sex-differentiating mechanisms at work in the turtle embryo (Risley, 1933).
2830228|Analysis of ecological constraints on juvenile mammals suggests that energy expended in play behavior does not reduce fitness, but actually increases it. When viewed as a promoter of adaptive energy loss, play can be considered an antipredator strategy. In addition, it may balance a low-protein diet in favor of growth, as well as increase resistance to pathogens and to cold exposure. These short-term benefits result from activation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), which is hypothesized to occur during play. SNS activation increases heat production in brown adipose tissue. The energy-regulation approach generates many predictions that are supported in the literature, and others that can be empirically tested.
2831918|The Hamilton-Zuk hypothesis postulates a causal link between parasitism and the evolution of epigamic traits by intersexual selection. Oversimplified assumptions about basic parasite biology, ambiguous formulation of the hypothesis, and poor communication between ethologists and parasitologists have hampering is testing. The hypothesis is supported at the microevolutionary level if females show significant preference for lightly or uninfected males. if intensity of infection reflects host resistance to parasites that depress host fitness by causing disease, and if intensity of infection is related to the degree of epigamic development. It must be shown that particular parasites cause disease, that the host population is polymorphic for resistance to infection by those species, and that female hosts are capable of distinguishing male hosts with low parasite loads due to heritable aspects of host resistance from males that are uninfected due to chance. The macroevolutionary prediction of the hypothesis, that species displaying strongly developed epigamic characters should host "more parasites" than species with weakly developed epigamic traits, contradicts the microevolutionary dynamic of the hypothesis, and is too ambiguous. We propose a macroevolutionary prediction based on understanding the evolutionary origin of epigamic traits and the evolutionary origin of each host-parasite association. Associations originating in the ancestor in which the epigamic trait appeared corroborate the hypothesis most strongly; those originating prior to the evolution of the epigamic trait corroborate it weakly; those beginning after the origin of the epigamic trait could not have been involved in the origin and spread of the epigamic trait.
2831919|Cognitive psychology is the study of how information, from the senses and from memory, is used in the production of behavior. Investigation of the specifics of behavioral adaptation has already led some behavioral ecologists into the domain of animal cognition. I make several arguments for the benefits and the necessity of a sophisticated assessment by ecologists of the cognitive aspects of behavioral adaptation. First, because cognition typically serves to produce adaptive behavior, cognitive structure and function should reflect ecological demands; studies of cognition in ecological contexts are opportunities to understand adaptation. Furthermore, constraints on cognitive properties may help determine how behavior meets the environment. Studies of spatial memory in food-caching corvids exemplify how cognitive aspects of behavior may both reflect and determine specifics of adaptation. Second, many models in behavioral ecology assume certain cognitive abilities, such as timing or counting. Cognitive theory and methodology should be used to determine whether animals possess these abilities. I have provided examples. Third, consideration of cognitive function can lead to original ideas about the details of behavioral adaptation. Without a thorough integration of cognitive psychology with behavioral ecology, our understanding of the relation between behavior and selective pressures will be compromised.
QRB1270|In recent decades, malaria has become established in zones at the margin of its previous distribution, especially in the highlands of East Africa. Studies in this region have sparked a heated debate over the importance of climate change in the territorial expansion of malaria, where positions range from its neglect to the reification of correlations as causes. Here, we review studies supporting and rebutting the role of climatic change as a driving force for highland invasion by malaria. We assessed the conclusions from both sides of the argument and found that evidence for the role of climate in these dynamics is robust. However, we also argue that over-emphasizing the importance of climate is misleading for setting a research agenda, even one which attempts to understand climate change impacts on emerging malaria patterns. We review alternative drivers for the emergence of this disease and highlight the problems still calling for research if the multidimensional nature of malaria is to be adequately tackled. We also contextualize highland malaria as an ongoing evolutionary process. Finally, we present Schmalhausen's law, which explains the lack of resilience in stressed systems, as a biological principle that unifies the importance of climatic and other environmental factors in driving malaria patterns across different spatio-temporal scales.
QRB1540|Our understanding of insect societies is rapidly expanding due to an emphasis on integrative approaches. Emerging tools enabling the molecular dissection of social behavior, together with novel hypotheses for the evolution of eusociality, are emblematic of this progress. However, an obstacle to a truly integrative approach remains, as social physiologythe basis of group-level coordinationhas generally been neglected by geneticists. In this paper, we begin a synthesis of these fields by first reviewing three classes of social insect organization that mark major transitions in increasing social complexity. We then develop an expansion of the superorganism concept in order to place eusociality into a broad evolutionary context, and we also interpret current molecular and genetic work on the evolution of eusociality. The groundplan hypothesis proposes that eusociality arose via simple changes in the regulation of ancestral gene sets affecting reproductive physiology and behavior, and we argue that this hypothesis is explanatory for the evolution of division of labor (social anatomy) but not for the regulatory systems that ensure group-level coordination of action (social physiology), which we propose is dependent on previously unrelated traits that are brought together into novel genetic networks. We conclude with a review of recent work in sociogenomics that supports our hypotheses.
QRB1266|The positive relationship between a species' geographic distribution and its abundance is one of ecology's most well-documented patterns, yet the causes behind this relationship remain unclear. Although many hypotheses have been proposed to account for distribution-abundance relationships, none have attained unequivocal support. Accordingly, the positive association in distribution-abundance relationships is generally considered to be due to a combination of these proposed mechanisms acting in concert. In this review, we suggest that much of the disparity between these hypotheses stems from differences in terminology and ecological point of view. Realizing and accounting for these differences facilitates integration, so that the relative contributions of each mechanism may be evaluated. Here, we review all the mechanisms that have been proposed to account for distribution-abundance relationships, in a framework that facilitates a comparison between them. We identify and discuss the central factors governing the individual mechanisms, and elucidate their effect on empirical patterns.
QRB2153|Most biologists implicitly define an individual organism as one genome in one body. This definition is based on physiological and genetic criteria, but it is problematic for colonial organisms. We propose a definition based instead on the evolutionary criteria of alignment of fitness, export of fitness by germsoma specialization, and adaptive functional organization. We consider how these concepts apply to various putative individual organisms. We conclude that complex multicellular organisms and colonies of eusocial insects satisfy these three criteria, but that, in most cases (with at least one notable exception), colonies of modular organisms and genetic chimeras do not. While species do not meet these criteria, they may meet the criteria for a broader conceptthat of an evolutionary individualand sexual reproduction may be a specieslevel exaptation for enhancing evolvability. We also review the costs and benefits of internal genetic heterogeneity within putative individuals, demonstrating that high relatedness is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for individuality, and that, in some cases, genetic variability may have adaptive benefits at the level of the whole.
QRB2118|The concept of Irreducible Complexity (IC) has played a pivotal role in the resurgence of the creationist movement over the past two decades. Evolutionary biologists and philosophers have unambiguously rejected the purported demonstration of intelligent design in nature, but there have been several, apparently contradictory, lines of criticism. We argue that this is in fact due to Michael Behe's own incoherent definition and use of IC. This paper offers an analysis of several equivocations inherent in the concept of Irreducible Complexity and discusses the way in which advocates of the Intelligent Design Creationism (IDC) have conveniently turned IC into a moving target. An analysis of these rhetorical strategies helps us to understand why IC has gained such prominence in the IDC movement, and why, despite its complete lack of scientific merits, it has even convinced some knowledgeable persons of the impending demise of evolutionary theory.
QRB2072|Adaptive evolution can cause a species to gain, lose, or modify a function; therefore, it is of basic interest to determine whether any of these modes dominates the evolutionary process under particular circumstances. Because mutation occurs at the molecular level, it is necessary to examine the molecular changes produced by the underlying mutation in order to assess whether a given adaptation is best considered as a gain, loss, or modification of function. Although that was once impossible, the advance of molecular biology in the past half century has made it feasible. In this paper, I review molecular changes underlying some adaptations, with a particular emphasis on evolutionary experiments with microbes conducted over the past four decades. I show that by far the most common adaptive changes seen in those examples are due to the loss or modification of a pre-existing molecular function, and I discuss the possible reasons for the prominence of such mutations.
QRB2148|There has been a recent resurgence of interest in the study of play behavior, marked by much empirical research and theoretical review. These efforts suggest that play may be of greater biological significance than most scientists realize. Here we present a brief synopsis of current play research covering issues of adaptive function, phylogeny, causal mechanisms, and development. Our goal is to selectively highlight contemporary areas of research in which the underlying processes and consequences of play should not be ignored. We elucidate some of the new and burgeoning areas of play research and interpret them from an integrative biological theoretical perspective that highlights areas in need of further experimental, comparative, and field research.
QRB1183|Direct interactions among conspecific and heterospecific animals are often mediated by aggressive behavior. We analyze the ecology and evolution of resource-related heterospecific aggression (HA) by reviewing and meta-analyzing 126 studies, contrasting HA with conspecific aggression (CA), and discussing terminological confusions and conceptual models. HA occurred in 78% of tests (n = 459), suggesting a high prevalence and potential effect on niche use and community structure. The benefits of both CA and HA are linked to resource defensibility and abundance, yet HA can change independently of CA. Ecological inferences about HA are often weak because they assume that interference always results from resource competition, and evolutionary inferences made by comparing HA to CA are also weak because they usually ignore history. We believe that comparisons between situations where a focal species is allopatric from and sympatric with a heterospecific competitor provide better opportunities to test hypotheses about HA. In general, according to our data set, aggression was higher with increased resource overlap as expected, both because CA was greater than HA, and HA was greater within compared to between genera. Progress in understanding HA requires distinguishing traits (aggressive behavior) from interactions (agonism, interference), as well as from the ecological and evolutionary causes (competition, ancestry) and consequences (dominance, territoriality, exclusion) of those interactions.
QRB1478|The occurrence of endoreplication has been repeatedly reported in many organisms, including protists, plants, worms, arthropods, molluscs, fishes, and mammals. As a general rule, cells possessing endoreplicated genomes are largesized and highly metabolically active. Endoreplication has not been frequently reported in neuronal cells that are typically considered to be fully differentiated and nondividing, and which normally contain a diploid genome. Despite this general statement, various papers indicate that giant neurons in molluscs, as well as supramedullary and hypothalamic magnocellular neurons in fishes, contain DNA amounts larger than 2C. In order to study this issue in greater detail here, we review the available data about endoreplication in invertebrate and vertebrate neurons, and discuss its possible functional significance. As a whole, endoreplication seems to be a sort of molecular trick used by neurons in response to the high functional demands that they experience during evolution.
QRB1487|We consider several ways in which a good understanding of modern techniques and principles in physics can elucidate ecology, and we focus on analogical reasoning between these two branches of science. Analogical reasoning requires an understanding of both sciences and an appreciation of the similarities and points of contact between the two. In the current ecological literature on the relationship between ecology and physics, there has been some misunderstanding about the nature of modern physics and its methods. Physics is seen as being much cleaner and tidier than ecology. When compared to this idealized, fictional version of physics, ecology looks very different, and the prospect of ecology and physics learning from one another is questionable. We argue that physics, once properly understood, is more like ecology than ecologists have thus far appreciated. Physicists and ecologists can and do learn from each other, and, in this paper, we outline how analogical reasoning can facilitate such exchanges.
QRB1727|Community ecology is often perceived as a mess, given the seemingly vast number of processes that can underlie the many patterns of interest, and the apparent uniqueness of each study system. However, at the most general level, patterns in the composition and diversity of speciesthe subject matter of community ecologyare influenced by only four classes of process: selection, drift, speciation, and dispersal. Selection represents deterministic fitness differences among species, drift represents stochastic changes in species abundance, speciation creates new species, and dispersal is the movement of organisms across space. All theoretical and conceptual models in community ecology can be understood with respect to their emphasis on these four processes. Empirical evidence exists for all of these processes and many of their interactions, with a predominance of studies on selection. Organizing the material of community ecology according to this framework can clarify the essential similarities and differences among the many conceptual and theoretical approaches to the discipline, and it can also allow for the articulation of a very general theory of community dynamics: species are added to communities via speciation and dispersal, and the relative abundances of these species are then shaped by drift and selection, as well as ongoing dispersal, to drive community dynamics.
QRB1724|Although invasive species are viewed as major threats to ecosystems worldwide, few such species have been studied in enough detail to identify the pathways, magnitudes, and timescales of their impact on native fauna. One of the most intensively studied invasive taxa in this respect is the cane toad (
QRB1722|Science progresses faster when researchers operate within an explicit framework of concepts and theories, but currently biology has no explicit, overarching conceptual framework and few general theories. The single general theory currently recognized is that of evolution, which was put forth by Charles Darwin 150 years ago. Recently,
QRB1525|Assessing the biodiversity of macroinvertebrate fauna in freshwater ecosystems is an essential component of both basic ecological inquiry and applied ecological assessments. Aspects of taxonomic diversity and composition in freshwater communities are widely used to quantify water quality and measure the efficacy of remediation and restoration efforts. The accuracy and precision of biodiversity assessments based on standard morphological identifications are often limited by taxonomic resolution and sample size. Morphologically based identifications are laborious and costly, significantly constraining the sample sizes that can be processed. We suggest that the development of an assay platform based on DNA signatures will increase the precision and ease of quantifying biodiversity in freshwater ecosystems. Advances in this area will be particularly relevant for benthic and planktonic invertebrates, which are often monitored by regulatory agencies. Adopting a genetic assessment platform will alleviate some of the current limitations to biodiversity assessment strategies. We discuss the benefits and challenges associated with DNA-based assessments and the methods that are currently available. As recent advances in microarray and next-generation sequencing technologies will facilitate a transition to DNA-based assessment approaches, future research efforts should focus on methods for data collection, assay platform development, establishing linkages between DNA signatures and well-resolved taxonomies, and bioinformatics.
2816370|Melanocytes may be regarded as unicellular, pigment-secreting glands, largely though not entirely confined to the epidermis, of which they are a constant though often un-recognized cellular component. Their numerical incidence, and their branching form, with numerous dichotomizing processes, are such as to form a reticular system within the epidermis. Evidence is evaluated that they are a race or lineage of cells sui generis and form a self-maintaining system within the epidermis. Their product-melanin granules-is secreted directly into the cytoplasm of neighboring Malpighian cells upon which the processes of the melanocytes terminate in the form of small swellings or end-caps. The several types of branched cells demonstrable within the epidermis by various techniques are discussed in relation to their identity as living melanocytes, or as effete cells of this lineage which, having lost or discharged their pigment, participate in the general out-ward movement of epidermal cells to be lost from the skin surface. The color variants of skin and hair, including spotting and albinism, are the direct result of melanocyte activity, and have been shown to be determined by the action and interaction of multiple genes, some of which operate via the milieu in which the pigment cells reside and others of which appear to act intracellularly and to control the biochemical steps of melanogenesis. The problem of pigment spread is discussed and related to the anatomy of the melanocyte system and to the co-existence of variant types of melanocytes within a single individual.
2816371|A comprehensive review of Soviet microbial genetics during the period 1940-1958, but especially for the years 1950 through 1957, has been based on 297 translated abstracts and 284 full articles. One full paper and 57 abstracts in this total came from the scientific literature of the People's Democracies; the remainder were from the USSR. In addition, 456 titles or brief indicative abstracts were examined. The items covered were grouped into twelve major areas of subject matter, in some of which there was evidence of extensive work, in others of very little. The retarding influence of Lysenko and his group upon the development of genetics, and the almost equally restrictive influence of Lepeshinskaya's doctrine of the origin of cells from non-living matter, were widely evident. Work on Mutation, Adaptation, and Variation was scanty and inferior; but in the area of the Chemistry of Inheritance increased activity and interest are apparent. Drug Resistance and Antibiosis, because of practical outcomes, was an emphasized area; genetic methods are being used to screen for antibiotics. Sexual Recombination was a neglected area. Work on Growth, Cell Division and Cell Theory was strongly under the influence of the Lepeshinskaya school, but there were signs of sharp criticism of those views and an awakening interest in studies like those conducted in the West. Evolution and Ecology was an area dominated by the pro- and anti-Lysenkoist controversy. The effects of altered environments were widely studied; but the role of natural selection as a major factor was mentioned more frequently after 1954. Most papers on microbial Metabolism and Physiology had little orientation toward genetics, but there was some evidence of awakening interest in DNA, adaptive enzyme mechanisms, pure culture techniques, etc. Host-Parasite Relationships, Medical Microbiology, and Immunology make up an are that showed from 1955-56 on an increasing independence of Lysenko and Lepeshinskaya, as discussion, if not laboratory experimentation, focused on bacteriophage studies, the biochemistry of phage infection, and studies of plant and animal viruses. Some of the work in the field of Industrial Microbiology and Methodology also showed, after the mid-fifties, a departure from Michurin-Lysenko doctrine, and even inter- and intra-specific competition was thought to be involved in the production of useful varieties. On the whole the trends in the industrial laboratories closely reflected the progress and ideas in the microbiological laboratories devoted to basic research. Radiation Biology was a field in which the workers seemed thoroughly acquainted with the Western literature on the subject and were using a wide variety of up-to-date methods. In the category of Miscellaneous and General Microbiology the use of ultrasonic methods and great interest in soil microbiology were notable. Finally, History and Ideology represent an important element of the genetic microbiological picture, for reasons already given. The major trend was a decline from the mid-fifties of the once complete dominance of Lysenko and Lepeshinskaya. A more critical, better informed science is developing. A major defect in the scientific literature of USSR microbial genetics has been the characteristics tendency of workers to discus in general terms and draw sweeping conclusion without supplying either a sufficient account of the experimental methods they used or their quantitative data. Again, a trend toward a more critical, adequately documented presentation of scientific findings in apparent since the mid-fifties. Rapid progress is now being made in this field, and Soviet workers seem to be fully aware of the latest advances in microbial genetics which have been made elsewhere in recent years.
2814600|This review illustrates the thesis that the concepts and techniques of animal virology may provide effective measures for analyzing genetic and epigenetic relations in developing cells. The authors discuss first the effects of introducing nucleic acid in the form of virus on the subsequent history of a cell, paying particular attention to the modification of patterns of differentiation and growth by tumor viruses. The question, can viruses be used to study the origin of differences in cell specific properties, is approached by examining the pathologic effects of viruses on embryos. The role of viruses as causative agents in congenital malformations is considered. Viruses are not only agents for modifying the course of development and for detecting when differences arise in cells. Experiments from several disciplines are discussed which focus on the concept of recombination between vertebrate somatic cells. Can intercellular transfer of subcellular units modify patterns of synthesis in embryonic cells? Among the examples treated are the transfer of enzyme forming capacity by epigenetic recombination in bacterial and vertebrate cells; transfer of antibody forming capacity; the selective uptake and exchange of subcellular particles in the chick embryo; and the use of viruses to facilitate transfer of information between vertebrate cells. Finally the application of recent genetic findings, arising from virological and other microbiological studies, to the ontogeny of one class of specific proteins, antibodies, is explored.
2814601|Two methods of analysis of the fine structure of genes are discussed. These methods yield data that support the concept of linear organization within a gene. This organization is apparent in both genetic and complementation maps. Experiments designed to give information concerning the mechanism of complementation are described. These data indicate that it is possible to simulate complementation in vivo. In this case complementation in vivo in Neurospora crassa is characterized by the ability of two ad-4 mutants growing together as a heterocaryon to produce functional adenylosuccinase, which neither mutant can make when grown alone. The simulated complementation occurs in vitro by mixing partially purified and presumably differentially defective forms of mutant adenylosuccinase. Maximum efficiency of complementation in vitro is obtained when attempting to modify or interchange-SH and-S-S-bonds of the protein. Theoretically, such a treatment could result in the formation of aggregates, hybrid molecules, or complexes of various forms. It is postulated that if this means of restoring enzyme activity is the mechanism of complementation in vivo, then the complementation maps is a reflection of the structure and properties of the enzyme rather than the gene. The similarities between genetic and complementation maps can be accounted for by a template model for the gene-protein relationship. This theory also explains occasional discrepancies between genetic and complementation maps, since such maps presumably correspond respectively to the structure of different macromolecules, DNA in the former case, protein in the latter.
2816806|Two processes, mutation and paramutation, are postulated to account for the observed heritable changes in the immediate R region of chromosome 10 in maize. Mutation is sporadic, undirected, and yields stable alleles having distinctive effects on aleurone and plant pigmentation. Paramutation occurs invariably in certain heterozygotes, is directed, and gives unstable alleles conditioning intergrading phenotypes. The paramutant phenotype is R-locus dependent, but paramutagenicity and pigment production are separable functions. Paramutation occurs in somatic cells; and paramutable R alleles are widespread in Zea mays. An R factor in a heterozygote with a strongly paramutagenic allele may itself become weakly paramutagenic. Reciprocal translocations involving chromosome breaks at remote points, proximal or distal to R, and in coupling with the latter, increase pigment-producing action of R, and render R comparatively insensitive to paramutation in R
2816805|This paper was given before the Genetics Section of the Moscow Society of Natural Science on November 26, 1957; before the joint session of the Geographical Society of USSR and the All-Union Botanical Society in Leningrad, December 6, 1957; and in Moscow on January 11, 1958 before the students of the Timiryazev Academy. A review, by I. Grebenschikova and F. Schultz, was printed in Der Zuchter, 28 (4): 161-166 (1958).
2816032|The importance of bacteria in oceans and lakes is slowly gaining recognition. The post-war Soviet studies on the Black Sea have led to the development of techniques which are being used in the "complex studies" being conducted on virtually all major water bodies of the world. These investigations, which are primarily concerned with the productivity of water basins, have led to some very interesting observations from "pole to pole." Included are studies such as the bacterial development in the region of the North Pole, chemosynthesis in water reservoirs, and the use of bacteria as hydrological indicators of Antarctic water masses. The purpose of this review is to draw attention to and discuss the nature and extent of Soviet work in aquatic bacteriology.
2816033|Preliminary investigations dealing with the relationship existing between the morphology of the bird's skull and its kinetic possibilities, appear to show that the thecodont ancestors of Birds, as well as Archaeopteryx were almost certainly akinetic. Kinetism developed early, but at least in some measure independently in the various avian orders. The amount of kinetic movement possible appears to be related to several morphological features, such as the structure of the palate, the relationship of the pterygoid and the braincase, the development of the ossification of the septum nasi, etc., which are usually considered of great taxonomic significance. It is therefore argued that the functional implications of such structures should be carefully considered when studying these features in order to ascertain the evolution and taxonomy of birds.
2818518|A hypothesis for the emergence of a cell system from primitive, non-cellular, living systems is proposed. The first living system is assumed to have been a reflexively catalytic system which showed the biological properties of self-formation in at least some of its variants. Natural selection would have acted on such a system and further development might be viewed in terms of selection pressures which would tend to extend the period of survival of the individual systems and shortern the period needed for self-formation. It is argued that functions and structures anticipatory of present cell systems would be selected under such conditions. Special attention is given to the emergence of the genetic apparatus; it is concluded that it emerged not as the primitive and simplest form of an organism but as a considerably later development, after establishment of a metabolically complex system. Natural selection is viewed as an ordering principle in biopoietic studies.
2818519|The distribution of chemical components in skeletal structures (cell walls), neurohormones, iodinated amino acids, sialic acid, sterols, bile salts, fatty acids, quinones, carotenoids, aldolase, glyoxylate cycle, cytochromes, DNA bases, amino acids, and phosphagens in organisms (particularly microorganisms) is described. The use of such biochemical markers in determining phylogeny and species relationships is discussed.
2818333|The prominent hypotheses conderning stomatal operation are discussed in relation to present knowledge. Recent experimental findings, under the light microscope, of high levels of protoplasmic streamig in guard cells, completely reversible opening and closing of stomata, and changes in neutral red accumulation, are presented. Preliminary electron microscopy of the guard cell is also presented. A simplified scheme shows the probable biochemical changes involved in opening and closing Vicia faba stomata. The Scheme emphasizes the lack of specificity of certain inhibitors of guard cell activity.
2818334|Sewage, sludges, and effluents contain appreciable amounts of phosphates, which become a decisive factor in excessive growth of algae and other forms of life when these wastes are discharged into waterways. The presence of phosphates in a body of water indicates its pollution with sewage or other organic wastes. After proper treatment these wastes may be applied to soil and the phosphates thus used to improve crop growth. Much of the readily "available" phosphorus in a fertilizer is quickly "fixed" by the reactive iron and aluminum in soil, and later is released slowly. In waters, however, practically all the soluble phosphorus entering them becomes immediately available for abundant growth of algae, bacteria, and other forms, resulting in serious problems. When these organisms die and decompose, the oxygen in the water is depleted and offensive changes occur; some organisms produce toxic substances. When sewage and effluents must be discharged into watercourses, phosphorus should be removed from them or reduced to a safe level.he effectiveness of various methods of phosphate removal is examined, and suggestions are made, in the light of accumulating evidence, for obtaining satisfactory results by a combination of biological and chemical methods.
2818332|Transpiration from a plant leaf is considered as a gaseous diffusion process driven by the net radiation absorbed by a leaf. The transpiration process is formulated analytically and the required transpiration rates are given for specified environmental conditions. Transpiration is limited by the internal diffusion resistance of a leaf; values of the resistance are reported for a number of native species. The midday slump of photosynthesis and transpiration, which often occurs during warm summer days, can be explained on a biochemical-biophysical basis related to high leaf temperatures.
2818803|Considerable revisionary effort is currently being directed toward the systematics of the Fungi Imperfecti and, in particular, toward the classification of the hyphomycetous molds. The classical system of Saccardo, with its emphasis on relatively superficial morphological and ecological characters, provides a classification niche for every known fungus but often is useless in revealing taxonomic relationships based on characters more nearly fundamental than habit, color, or spore septation. A discussion of the requirements of a new, information-rich classification is used to introduce a review of recent systematic revisions based on methods of asexual spore production observed among these fungi.
2818800|A type culture collection may be regarded as a storehouse of genetic diversity. The study of bacterial relatedness through genetic transformation reactions reveals the identity or similarity of restricted portions of the genomes of the strains or species compared. For example, in spite of lack of any detectable antigenic relationship between pneumococcus and streptococcal strains, transfer of streptomycin and erythromycin resistance is possible between them, and certain sections of the bacterial chromosomes must therefore be sufficiently complementary to permit hybridization at those places. Comparisons of base ratios in the respective DNA's and of specific antigenic characters may assist in the study of bacterial relatedness. Eventually nucleotide analysis will be possible and will permit direct comparisons. Recent developments thus show that the science of bacterial taxonomy is not a dead thing but a dynamic investigation of living properties by microbiological, genetic, and biochemical means.
2818802|The increased use of microorganisms as experimental objects for detailed studies of various biological phenomena has led to impressive advances in their interpretation in molecular terms. This has resulted in a tendency to equate microbiology with "molecular biology." In the author's opinion this attitude is unfortunate, because it fails to direct attention to the importance of microorganisms for the study of problems that are as yet, inaccessible to the approaches of molecular biology. The enormously diverse microbial world offers numerous opportunities for exploratory studies of complex problems on a non-molecular level, particularly as they related to levels of organization of component parts and interactions among them and with the environment. Such investigations can eventually provide the molecular biologist with material for more refined analysis. A plea is made for the perpetuation and extension of broad biological approaches to microbiology, in which the potential advantages of diverse kinds for exploratory studies of complex phenomena can be indicated. Finally, the great significance of extensive collections of microorganisms in a viable state is emphasized.
2818805|The ontogenesis of those genetic differences in form which are homeomorphic, that is, which can be expressed in terms of meausrements, is considered. Particualar stress is laid on the advantages of longitudinal (versus cross-sectional, static, and mixed) data, and on the necessity of adapting the method of analysis to the type of data. Bivariate and multivariate methods of analysis are discussed, and the analysis of simple allometry is treated in detail. No existing multivariate method is competent to deal with longitudinal data; a way of overcoming this is suggested. Work on single-gene and multiple-gene diferences, and comparisons between related species, are critically examined. Instances in which the allometry line is simply shifted in position, without change in K (the coefficient of allometry) are common; well-established differences in K are relatively rare. When differences in K do occur, they often result in intersection of the allometry lines, or in convergence toward older ages. It is suggested that this results from the combined effects of genes which singly affect either position alone, or K. Evolutionary allometry is held to be a description of evolutionary trends, not an explanation of them in terms of growth. Theories of growth control and regeneration are discussed, and aspects which need reexamination using longitudinal methods of analysis are indicated.
2818801|The gradual emergence of the need for a modern type culture collection, first for bacteria and fungi, and later for cell cultures and viruses, is traced from early American workers of the late Nineteenth Century and the first decade of this century. The centralization of the collection of cultures for distribution was apparently first suggested by C.-E. A. Winslow of Yale. The collection he put together was maintained for a few years in the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Later it moved to Washington, then to the Hektoen Laboratories of Rush Medical School in Chicago, then back to Washington (Department of Agriculture), then to Georgetown University, later to a leased apartment house and, finally, to the quite adequate structure at Rockville, Maryland, a suburb of Washington. An analysis of the functions of an adequate culture collection and the promise of leadership on the part of the American Type Culture Collection is included.
2818804|The recognition that animal cell strains may change in character during serial subcultures, may contain microbial contaminants, or may become mixed with animal cells of diverse lineage led to the development of a program to characterize systematically and preserve the prototype strains and their derivatives, and to establish a repository and distribution center for reference cultures. The problems involved are as follows: (1) development of freeze-preservation methods suitable for preparation and storage of reference stocks at ultra-low temperatures; (2) establishment of viability criteria to judge the efficiency of recovery of cells from the frozen state; (3) certification of reference cultures as being free from microbial contamination (particularly mycoplasmas), and development of methods of eliminating such contaminants; (4) identification of cells as to species of origin; and (5) characterization on the basis of karyology, morphology, growth characteristics, genetic and biochemical markers, virus susceptibility, tumorigenicity, and other special properties. The procedures and tests developed for use are discussed with regard to their application to reference seed stocks of cell lines selected for the Cell Culture Collection.
2818799|The Past Development of museums has been notably lacking in attention to the preservation, study, and exhibition to the lay public of microbial organisms. The new building of the American Type Culture Collection in Washington, D. C., is intended to provide such a facility.
2819933|Seed dormancy is an adaptive mechanism of growth cessation which often confers upon some species a selective advantage in distribution and abundance. Although relatively few alpine species exhibit seed dormancy, the dominant or abundant species of most communities do so. The causes of seed dormancy in alpine plants appear to be as diverse and typical as for any other ecologic group. Seed coat inhibition is probably the most common cause of alpine seed dormancy. A requirement for pregermination chilling (stratification) or for after-ripening account for very little alpine seed dormancy. Of some 60 species investigated which set viable seed, 8 require scarification of the seed coat for germination, 3 require pregermination chilling, 2 require after-ripening, and 6 exhibit weak or vague photosensitivity. Data are inconclusive and fragmentary respecting the viability, germinability, and ripening of alpine seeds, primarily because of variation in latitude, altitude, and variable dates of collection. Consequently, natural germination requirements are known for relatively few alpine species. Significant correlations exist between type of seed dormancy in alpine plants and certain environmental factor. Soil disturbance is the most characteristic feature of the alpine environment. Seed coat inhibition appears correlated with most frequent occurrence of species exhibiting seed dormancy on sites of severe soil disturbance. As an ecologic phenomenon, seed dormancy appears to be represented in at least one species in each major alpine community type. It is proposed that seed dormancy may account for the relative abundance and successional success of the dominant species. With regard to the nature and extend of seed dormancy, intraspecific variations among ecotypes occur, and may contribute to the relative abundance and success of a species in different communities.
2819932|A growing consensus of biologists now favors the effectiveness of long-distance dispersal as a means of populating islands. The observational and experimental bases on which this opinion rests are strong, but additional work is needed. A clear under-standing of long-distance dispersal is essential to an understanding of evolutionary trends on oceanic islands, because immigrant patterns are different from relict patterns. Since oceanic islands are short-lived, the evolutionary history of waif immigrants is also short. If a continental islands maintains long isolation, arrivals by long-distance dispersal may show evolutionary patterns more completely, as is true on New Zealand for example. The evolutionary patterns of waif biotas are influenced by isolation, by the broad range of available ecological opportunities, and, to a lesser extent, by the moderation characteristic of maritime climates. In addition to problems involved in becoming established, immigrants must overcome genetic disadvantages inherent in the fact that the number of original colonists is mall. Increase of genetic variability may be governed by ecological diversity, and persistence of a phylad may be increased by maximizing outcrossing and hybridization. Among features which are exhibited by waif biotas are adaptive radiation, flightlessness in animals, loss of dispersal mechanism in plants, and development of new ecological habits and growth forms. Each of these adaptations is evidently governed by a wide variety of factors. "Weedy" groups seem to possess the greatest ability to disperse and become established; they also excel at sensitive adaptation to island conditions. The waif biota contains few relicts except for "recent relicts."
2819934|Comparative psychology emphasizes similarities and differences between levels in both the abilities and the organization of behavior. Studies of the organization of species-typical behavior have lagged because of insufficient attention to organization-relevant problems in behavioral ontogenesis. They have also lagged because of a contemporary emphasis on specialized, molecular problems dictated by such positivistic doctrines as the Pavlovian, the Lorenzian, the Hullian, and the Skinnerian. Implications of instinctivistic concepts of behavior are discussed, especially the damping effect they have imposed on developmental research. As an antidote, logical steps are out-lined toward studying the "whole organism" in comparative psychology. To this end a developmental theory is advanced, centered on redefinitions of the concepts of "maturation" and "experience," and designed to suggest a widened range of hypotheses for developmental research, as well as to avoid the blind alleys of such traditional dichotomies as nature versus nurture and innate versus acquired. "Muturation and experience, as redefined in this article, denote factors that are fundamentally fused or coalesced in their developmental effects, and thus are separable only as abstractions. A concept of interactionism, therefore, that implies engagements of separate and disjunctive developmental entities seems invalid, at least for early stages. Investigations based upon this holistic "maturation-experience" theory are discussed. Maturation is not correctly expressed as an "unfolding" of functions; experience is not synonymous with conditioning and learning, which are vague terms for processes recognizable at advanced stages. Approach and withdrawal stand out as modes of behavior fundamental to environmental adaptations on all levels; hence these processes with their derivatives are central to a theory of behavioral development advanced for comparative psychology.
2820436|Factors that influence the formation and volumes of embryonic fluids in amphibia, birds, and mammals are reviewed. Some bodies of fluids segregate discretely only in embryonic and fetal stages; others form permanently in cavities or interstitial compartments. Major volume changes during development are described, especially for blastocoel, archenteron, amniotic, allantoic, and interstitial fluids. Epithelial layers secrete fluids into sealed cavities. The rates of secretion per unit of surface resemble one another to a surprising degree; in large species, prolongation of activity yields the larger volumes. Secretion in some surfaces may cease at a predetermined age; in others, cell deaths allow fluids to disperse. Thus redistributions of fluids change with age both absolutely and relately to their sum. Replacement or regeneration of cavity fluids has not yet been clearly demonstrated. Embryonic sacs appear to secrete nearly isotonic fluids in accordance with intrinsic programs of the cells constituting the sacs.
2819803|In recent years there has been important progress in the study of man's origins and evolution and in the development of man's capacity for culturally patterned behavior. These advances have been the result of developments in relative and absolute age determination of fossil hominid remains and the sediments that contain them; in the recovery of hominid skeletal remains that fill significant gaps in the fossil record and often provide new and unsuspected evidence of the morphology and functional structure fo the early Hominidae; and in the discovery, controlled excavation, and detailed evaluation of contexts, associations, and residues of early hominid occupation places. The nature and probable significance of these discoveries are critically evaluated, especially with respect to ongoing and future research problems of paleoanthropology.
2820379|A critical evaluation of the phylogeny and evolution of the plants classified as bacteria, algae, and fungi has been made. The evolution of chemical characters (porphyrins, carotenoids, carbohydrates, and lipids and sterols), micromorphological characters (cell wall, hereditary apparatus, flagellar apparatus, photosynthetic apparatus, mitochondria, and Golgi apparatus), and functional characters (metabolism of hygrogen, nitrogen, sulfur, and carbon, including respiration, photosynthetic energy transformation, and photosynthetic carbon fixation) are discussed. Phylogenetic interrelations among thallophytes are evaluated on the basis of each of these characters. The final section of the review discusses the phylogeny of organisms in the divisions and classes of the thallophytes as suggested by chemical, micromorphological, functional, and life cycle criteria.
2818420|The biology, economic importance, physiology, ecology, cytology, and genetics of the parasitic wasp, Mormoniella vitripennis (=Nasonia brevicornis), are reviewed, and its use and value in research are also considered. Normally Mormoniella is an ectoparasite, and uses the pupae of larger Diptera as hosts; at 28
2827976|Bartz's (1979) inbreeding hypothesis on termite social evolution predicted that (1) all termite colonies should have supplementary reproductives, (2) the winged alates should be the offspring of inbreeding supplementaries, and (3) alates should outbreed. These predictions are examined here for each family and subfamily of the Isoptera. Prediction 1 is at least superficially upheld for most termites that do produce either neotenic or adultoid reproductives. The rate of supplementary and replacement reproduction, however, varies greatly between different taxa. Prediction 2 is not upheld for the majority of termites because primary reproductives tend to be long lived and primary-headed colonies do generate alates. It may be upheld for Mastotermes, many of the Rhinotermitidae, and some Termitidae. Prediction 3 appears to be true for most termines, although support for it is inferential only. The breeding pedigrees of termites vary greatly with their ecological specializations and it is unlikely that Bartz's model can be reconciled to such variation. Bart's hypothesis also makes certain assumptions about the nature of caste differentiation and the nature of the behavior underlying the sociality of termites. These assumptions are discussed and some criticisms are made. We conclude that inbreeding according to Bartz's model may be a contributing factor in the social evolution of some termites but is probably not the major initiating or sustaining factor in termite social evolution.
2827977|The scaling of the basal rate of metabolism in mammals is reexamined. Both the power and level of the scaling function are sensitive to various factors that interact with body mass and rate of metabolism, including the precision of temperature regulation, food habits, and activity level. This sensitivity implies that the rate of metabolism is a highly plastic character in the course of evolution. Consequently, the singular effect of mass on the rate of metabolism is most effectively analyzed in ecologically and physiologically uniform sets of species, rather than in taxonomically defined groups, which often are ecologically and physiologically diverse. Otherwise, all fitted curves for mammals integrate a variety of competing factors, thereby reflecting the species used and denying unique analytic significance to the power in scaling relations. Kleiber's eutherian curve may represent a relatively uniform set of data because all the species included were domesticated and because selection for high rates of production (and high rates of metabolism) occurred in the process of domestication. In the analysis of scaling relationships, the standard error of estimate (Sy x) is a more valuable measure of the residual variation than is (1.0 - r<sup>2</sup>) because r<sup>2</sup> is a non-linear measure of the conformation of data to the relation and because Sy x, unlike r<sup>2</sup>, is independent of the units used in the scaling relationship. At present the best estimate indicates that total rate of metabolism scales proportionally to approximately m<sup>0</sup>.60 at small masses (< 300 g), as long as small species do not enter torpor, and scales proportionally to approximately m<sup>0</sup>.75 a large masses ( 300 g). Physiolgocal properties other than metabolism are potentially sensitive to secondary factors, so their scaling functions also would be most clearly defined for physiologically uniform groups of species. This view suggests that insight into the significance of scaling relations can be obtained by examining the residual variation around a scaling function as well as by examining conformation to the function.
2832265|Sessile, clonal invertebrates frequently encounter conspecifics as they grow over hard substrata and compete for space. Allorecognition systems mediate the nature and outcomes of these encouters by controlling somatic compatibility (fusion versus nonfusion) and agonistic behavior (aggression versus nonaggression). In general, clonemates (and sometimes close relatives) can fuse somatically, whereas more distant relatives are incompatible. Many anthozoan and hydrozoan cnidarians behave passively when in contact with clonemates and close kin, but fight aggressibely when contacting more distant relatives. This high degree of allorecognition specificity, when considered togehter with the few available data on the formal genetics of allorecognition, suggests that levels of polymorphism at allorecognition loci (i.e., allotypic variation) exceed by perhaps an order of magnitude the levels typical of other polymorphic loci. In this paper, I evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the selectionist and nonselectionist theories that have been proposed to account for the evolution and persistence of allotypic polymorphism. It remains difficult to accept or reject any of these hypotheses in the absence of detailed empirical information concerning levels and patterns of allelic variation at allorecognition loci. Nevertheless, mathematical considerations and the available data together suggest that frequency-dependent or spatially variable selection are the strongest candidates for the maintenance of allotypic variation. Although the pleiotropic effects of allorecognition loci (e.g., the regulation of gametic compatibility or pathogenic defense) could maintain allotypic variation, pleiotropy by itself does not account for the widespread evolution of aggressive behavior and somatic compatibility conditioned by allotypic similarity. It is theoretically possible that frequency-dependent selection acting at the level of the individual maintains allotypic polymorphism by restricting somatic fusion; it is less clear how individual selection maintains allotypic variation through the regulation of agonistic behavior.
2832266|Comparative methods can be used to test ideas about adaptation by identifying cases of either parallel or convergent evolutionary change across taxa. Phylogenetic relationhips must be known or inferred if comparative methods are to separate the cross-taxonomic covariation among traits associated with evolutionary change from that attributable to common ancestry. Only the former can be used to test ideas linking convergent or parallel evolutionary change to some aspect of the environment. The comparative methods that are currenlty available differ in how they manage the effects brought about by phylogenetic relationships. One method is applicable only to discrete data, and uses cladistic techniques to identify evolutionary events that depart from phylogenetic trends. Techniques for continuous variables attempt to control for plylogenetic effects in a variety of ways. One method examines the taxonomic distribution of variance to identify the taxa within which character variation is small. The method assumes that taxa with small amounts of variation are those in which little evolutionary change has occurred, and thus variation is unlikely to be independent of ancestral trends. Analyses are then concentrated among taxa that show more variation, on the assumption that greater evolutionary change in the character has taken place. Several methods estimate directly the extent to which ancestry can predict the observed variation of a character, and subtract the ancestral effect to reveal variation independent of phylogeny. Yet another can remove phylogenetic effects if the true phylogeny is known. One class of comparative methods controls for phylogenetic effects by searching for comparative trends within rather than across taxa. With current knowledge of phylogenies, there is a trade-off in the choice of a comparative method: those that control phylogenetic effects with greater certainty are either less applicable to real data, or they make restrictive or untestable assumptions. Those that rely on statistical patterns to infer phylogenetic effects may not control phylogeny as efficiently but are more readily applied to existing data sets.
2830999|Nest and offspring defence by birds can be treated as an optimization problem wherein fitness benefits are determined by the survival of the current brood and fitness costs depend upon the probability that the parent will survive to breed again. At the optimal intensity of defence, net fitness benefits are maximized. Unlike many other aspects of animal behavior, the reproductive consequences of nest defence can often be measured directly. Within this optimality framework, we review the current adaptive hypotheses to explain both interspecific and intraspecific variation in nest defence behavior, and we present some new ideas of our own. Most research to date has focused on seasonal patterns of nest defence to test the prediction that the intensity of nest defence should increase through the nesting cycle either because renesting potential declines or because the probability of offspring survival increases rapidly relative to that of the parents. Studies testing the renesting potential hypothesis have both supported and rejected it, but few studies to date have been controlled well enough to allow us to distinguish between the two hypotheses. The intensity of nest defence is also predicted to increase with parental experience and confidence of parenthood; offspring number, quality and vulnerability; and nest accessibility and conspicuousness. The response of parents is also expected to vary with the relative armament and mobility of parent and predator and the relative roles of the parents in caring for their offspring. Although there is some evidence supporting many of these predictions, most have not been explicitly tested while holding other factors constant. The tendency for researchers to ignore variables that might influence the intensity of nest defence makes the conclusions of most studies that find support for any single adaptive hypothesis relatively unconvincing. Like Optimal Foraging Theory, however, a comprehensive functional theory of nest defence based on life-history theory can help us to elucidate many of the patterns observed in this important aspect of the parental care behavior of a wide variety of animals.
2830998|The ability of parasites to change the behavior of infected hosts has been documented and reviewed by a number of different authors (Holmes adn Bethel, 1972; Moore, 1984a). This review attempts to quantify the population dynamic consequences of this behavior by developing simple mathematical models for the most frequently recorded of such parasite life cycles. Although changes in the behavior of infected hosts do occur for pathogens with direct life cycles, they are most commonly recorded in the intermediate hosts of parasites with complex life cycles. All the changes in host behavior serve to increase rates of transmission of the parasites between hosts. In the simplest case the changes in behavior increase rates of contact between infected and susceptible conspecific hosts, whereas in the more complex cases fairly sophisticated manipulations of the host's behavioral repertory are achieved. Three topics are dealt with in some detail: (1) the behavior of the insect vectors of such diseases as malaria and trypanosomiasis; (2) the intermediate hosts of helminths whose behavior is affected in such a way as to make them more susceptible to predation by the definitive host in the life cycle; and (3) the behavior and fecundity of molluscs infected with asexually reproducing parasitic flatworms. In each case an expression is derived for R
2830426|Worker reproduction (i.e., the parthenogenetic production by workers of males and, more rarely, females) is very widespread in the higher eusocial Hymenoptera (bumble bees, stinglees bees, honey bees, vespine wasps, higher ants). Examples are given in the text. The mutualistic theory ("hopeful reproductive" hypothesis) of hymenopteran eusociality (semisocial route) states that the first workers were reproductive because the possibility of future reproduction was the condition for their originally working. In Hamilton's kinship theory (subsocial route) workers produce males on account of their greater relatedness to sons than to brothers. Several recent models indicate that worker male production could have facilitated the evolution of eusociality. Queen control (queen inhibition of worker fertility) arises because queens are more closely related to their own than to workers' offspring, and explains why present-day workers are most reproductive in queenless conditions. Conversely worker reproduction in queenright colonies (i.e., colonies containing the maternal queen) reflects selection on workers to evade queen control Optimization models predict that workers should produce all or none of a colony's males. Although workers in some species produce 100 per cent of the males, reproductive workers more usually produce an extremely variable proportion of males. When workers reproduce, the expected equilibrium sex ratios change; but the information needed to assess the importance for sex-ratio determination of worker male production is lacking. Kinship theory suggests that polygyny (multiple queens) and multimple mating both promote queeright worker reproduction by reducing intracolony genetic relatedness. The analysis of data assembled on 49 ant species reveals that workers in monogynous species (i.e., with one queen per colony) reproduce moslty in queenless conditions, whereas those in polygynous species reproduce in queenless and queenright conditions equally often, in agreement with kinship theory. Monogyny could favor a reproductive worker caste becuse the high probability of colony orphanage allows workers greater opportunity to reproduce free from queen control. The ability of workers to reproduce has important consequence for colony organization and function. These include (1) the extent and nature of queen control of worker fertility, such control being viewed as the outcome of an "arms race" with workers over male parentage; (2) the occurrence of dominance behavior, egg cannibalism, brood destruction, and possibly even matricide in colonies with reproductive workers; (3) reduced colony efficiency and the system of temporal division of labor based on worker age and ovarian development; and(4) the rarity of physical castes among workers. For all these reasons, worker reproduction is crucial to our understanding of hymenopteran eusociality.
2830425|Synchronized flashingby males of some firefly species involves a capacity for visually coordinated, rhythmically coincident, inter-individual behair that is apparently unique in the animal kingdom except for a few other arthropods and for man. This paper reviews (1) diverse communicative interactions that have evolved from elementary photic signals, (2) physiological mechanisms of synchronism, and (3) theories about its biological meaning. Work of the past 20 years shows that flash synchrony is widespread geographically and taxonomically, appears in an astonishing range of spectacular display types, utilizes several neural flash-control mechanisms and is pervasively but enigmatically involved in courthsip. No proposed function for synchrony has been fully established but theory and physiology concur in indicating that synchrony aids male orientation toward the female, female recognition of male flashing, or both. Increased mate choice for the female is one likely ultimate benefit.
2821657|The biological, social, and legal aspects of work on the fertilization of human ova in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos into the uterus of the mother are considered by a scientist engaged in these studies. The initial parts of the review provide descriptions of studies on the control of ovulation, and the methods developed for the culture of cleaving animal and human embryos. The main part of the review is devoted to the moral and ethical aspects such studies. An outline description is given, first, of the development of clinical methods in various fields, together with a consideration of the methods of fetal screening necessary in work on the reimplantation of human embryos. The position of the infertible patients, in relation to the development of studies of fertilization in vitro, is then discussed, including the assessment of some opinions expressed on the therapeutic nature of treatments based on the reimplantation of embryos. A brief description of genetic engineering, including its imminence, practicability, and dangers, is then given. Some theological, philosophical, and legal aspects of fertilization in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos are debated in the final sections of the review. These sections include a commentary on current discussions about the philosophical and theological aspects of the work. Descriptions are given of some examples in law relevant to clinical attempts to alleviate infertility, together with a consideration of the legal relationship between patients, offspring, and those doctors and scientists engaged in these clinical studies.
2821658|Reexamination of the specimens of Archaeopteryx, which constitute the only direct evidence pertaining to the habits and mode of life of the earliest stages of avian evolution, indicates that neither the highly favored arboreal theory nor the much critized cursorial theory offers adequate explanation for the origin of avian flight. The osteology of Archaeopteryx, in virtually every detail, is indistinguishable from that of contempraneous and succeeding coelurosaurian dinosaurs-especially in the details of the manus, forelimbs, and pectoral arch. It is proposed that these conditions reflect a highly predaceous mode of life for Archaeopteryx, rather than being arboreal adaptations. Plumage, in the form of contour feathers, is believed to have arisen in response to the need for controlling heat loss (and gain) and was secondarily modified on the fore limbs to enhance the prey-catching function of the hands. Enlargement of the primordial "primaries" and "secondaries" transformed the forelimbs of "proto-Archaeopteryx" into large, continous, trapping surfaces-natural insect nets-activated by powerful ventral adductor muscles (the pectoralis group). These adaptations were admirably preadaptive for active, flapping flight. The primordial insulative function of contour feathers and the predatory hypothesis for the enlargement of the remiges seem to account for the otherwise paradoxical presence in Archaeopteryx on essentially modern "flight" feathers in the absence of virtually all of the skeletal specializations that are associated with (or required for ?) modern bird flight, whereas those skeletal specializations that are present in Archaeopteryx are the same, or nearly the same, as those that are preserved in various (presumed) predaceous coelurosaurian dinosaurs.
2822909|Research on the complexity of organisms has advances through the use of simple systems like Hydra. The present article review some concepts concerning organization of Hydra. The body of Hydra is a storage organ for structural cell used in the maintenance of tentacles and foot. Excell cell are reject in buds. Changes occur in the size of the animal, in the proportion of its cells involved in maintenance and budding, and in the areas of the animal occupied by cells moving toward terminal strutures and converging on the budding region. In normal and regenerating hydras the mesoglea could aid in directing cell movement, nerves, differentiated from interstitial cells, could release neurosecretory products with inductive activity. Constructive controls promote development in the victinities of head, foot, and budding region. Two repressive controls seem to operate; negative dominance operated through cell-to-cell contact by drawing cells toward existing dominant centers; inhibition, dependent on the action of specific diffusible inhibitors of head and foot regeneration, may operate by preventing the differentiation of interstitial cells. Results on experimentally elongated multiple-graft animals indicate that the budding region forms at a point of minimal negative dominance without respect to the presence of the inhibitors. The production of inhibitors throughout the animal is controlled by continuity with the respective terminal structures and is disrupted by graft borders in elongated animals. Continuity with the head controls the destruction of foot inhibitor throughout the animal: continuity with the foot controls the head inhibitor, chiefly in the peduncle. Other substances may be present in diffusion gradients; one produced by dividing cells may direct cell loss through bud and graft rejection.
2822910|The explanation that have been offered for patterns of taxonomic diversity are related to the historic interplay of stochastic and deterministic philosophical concepts. New sets of taxonomic data are examined. Taxonomic diversity is related to ecological diversity, and to diversity in nonorganic and social realms as well.
2820942|An analysis of life history features of insect parasitoids and crustacean parasitic castrators suggests that these are similar trophic phenomena, distinct from parasitism and predation. A parasitoid consumes only one host during its lifetime; parasitic castrators cause the reproductive death of only one host. Since population densities of many insect species are regulated by parasitoids, parasitic castrators may also play an important role in host population regulation. Parasitoids of insects and parasitic castrators of crustaceans (1) in single infections always kill the host; whereas lone parasites do not affect host viability; and predators kill many prey; (2) do not cause increasing pathology or increasing likelihood of mortality in multiple infections; whereas parasites often have an additive impact; (3) do not cause increasing damage in mixed species infections; whereas mixed parasite infections often have interactive negative effect; (4) Usually have mechanisms to reduce or eliminate multiple infections; whereas multiple infections are common features of parasite systems; (5) also show reduced frequencies of mixed species infections; whereas such infections are common among parasite species; (6) are often taxonomically closely related to their hosts; whereas parasites rarely are and predators vary in this respect; (7) are often less than one order to a few orders of magnitude smaller (by weight) than their hosts; whereas parasites are several to many orders of magnitude smaller; and predators range from similar-sized to several orders of magnitude larger than their prey; (8) show strong possitive size correlations with their hosts; whereas parasites show no size correlation with their hosts; and only relatively small predators are sometimes correlated by size with their prey; (9) frequently are killed or castrated by obligate hyperparasitoids and hypercastrators; whereas parasites rarely have hyperparasites; (10) sometimes act as facultative hyperparasitoids or hypercastrators; whereas parasites very rarely act so; (11) parasitoids and often castrators most commonly attack very young hosts; whereas parasitism and predation are very variable with respect to age of the host (prey); and (12) often cause precocious host development; whereas parasites rarely affect host maturation processes. Some insect parasitoids castrate their hosts before killing them; some crustaceans are ultimately consumer by their castrators. Parasitoid and castrator systems not involving insect or crustacean hosts are briefly reviewed. These trophic interactions may be more widespread than is generaly considered. Hydatid cyst disease is regarded as the only parasitoid affliction of humans.
2820941|Lathyrism encompases two entities. The first, neurolathyrism, occurs in a variety of animals, including man, after the consumption of several Lathyrus species. Three distinct neurolathyrogens have been isolated thus far from these plants. Clinical manifestations are marked by spastic paraplegia, and degenerative pathological changes are noted in the spinal cord to account for this effect. The other type of lathryrism, observed mainly in rats and turkeys, and not in man, is called osteolathyrism. This consists of kyphoscoliosis of the spine and curvatures of the long bones. Aortic aneyrysms are also observed in these animals, and this effect has been termed angiolathyrism is usually seen in conjunction with osteolathyrism, and the vessel and bone effects have not been convincingly dissociated. Beta-aminopropionitrile, a toxic product of L. odoratus (sweet pea), has been identified as the usual inducer of this second type of lathyrism, although a variety of synthetic nitriles and other compounds have been noted to have similar effects. Extensive studies of osteolathyritic and angiolathyritic tissues have revealed unique histopathological and ultrastructural changes, as well as decreased connective tissue strength. Biochemical studies have revealed increased solubility of collagen and specific enzyme inhibition of iysyl oxidase at the first slep of cross-link formation in elastin and collagen. These effects perhaps partly account for the observed curvatures of long bones, decreased tensile strength of connective tissues, adn aortic aneurysm and rupture in osteolathyrism and angiolathyrism. Teratogenic effects of the osteolathyrogens include ectocardia and gastroschisis in midpregnancy, cleft palate somewhat later, and aneurysms and kyphoscoliosis still later. These effects depend on the dose, agent, and time of administration, and may be directly related to the biochemical lesion.
2822820|Admissable game-theory models of evolution must be restricted to the class of "existential games" in which there is no way of using the winnings ("payoff") for any purpose other than continuing the game for as long as possible. The optimal strategy in such a game is to minimize the stakes played. Organisms and populations seem to be organized consistently with this strategy. The evolution of this organization does not involve group selection or any other deviation from accepted evolutionary theory. The implication of analyzing evolution as an existential game is to deny the idea of evolutionary momentum and to emphasize that adaptedness must always be defined in an explicit environmental context. It is asserted that adaptive responses will have a particular temporal relation to environmental perturbations. This assertion is a predictive statement about evolution-unlike the retrospective assertions that usually emerge from evolutionary analyses.
2822822|The origins of the blue-green algae of hot springs are uncertain, but the snails and flies that eat the algae, and the mites parasitic on the flies, seem to have evolved from species that lived in water-margin habitats. The wet shores of water margins are regularly warmed up to 40
2822821|Correlations of social structure, life-history patterns, and ecology among the seventeen species of grouse exemplify some general patterns in the evolution of mating systems among higher vertebrates. The species of grouse differ in the aggregation of displaying males, the permanence of heterosexual affiliations, the contributions of males to parental care, and the breeding sex ratio. Promiscous species (no durable heterosexual affiliation) are probably all polynous (the breeding sex ratio less than unity), but fall into two groups depending on whether the displaying males congregate at leks or disperse relatively evenly. In all of these promiscuous, polygymous species and in three monogramous species, the female cares for the young; dual parental care appears only in one monogamous species. During their first year, the males of polynous species do not mate or mate much less frequently, although females normally breed at one year of age, a situation termed sexual bimaturism. At least among birds and mammals, polygyny is normally associated with sexual bimaturism. Sexual bimaturism and polygyny among grouse correlated well both with large overall size, as indicated by female weight, and with greater sexual dimorphism in weight. These correlations also recur in other vertebrate families. Among the promiscuous grouse, the dispersion patterns of displaying males probably relate to the differences in predation pressures in open and forested habitats. In contrast with some other avian families, differences in social structure among grouse have little relationship to major differences in diet. Single parental care is not a sufficient condition for the evolution of polygyny among grouse. The association of sexual bimaturism with polygyny requires, in addition, an explanation of the adaptive advantages of deferred reproduction among males. Postponed reproduction by males will reduce the spread of their genes in a population unless compensated by a sufficient gain in early survival or increased fecundity later. Calculations of rates of reproductive increase for hypothetical lineages of males indicate that these compensating conditions can plausibly explain the evolution of delayed reproduction among male grouse. Theoretical considerations further suggest that larger size could favor the evolution of deferred reproduction, especially in males, and thus could contribute to the evolution of sexual bimaturism and polygyny in the larger species of grouse. Ecological circumstances, including the details of food dispersion, could thus influence the evolution of mating systems indirectly, through effects on the evolution of body sizes. As polygyny among higher vertebrates is normally associated with sexual bimaturism and is incompatible with full dual parental care, polygyny should evolve under ecological conditions in which the adaptive advantages of sexual bimaturism otuweigh those of dual parental care.
2831545|Gene flow between different reproductive such as bacterial plasmids and chromosomes presents unusual problems for evolutionary analysis. Far more than in eukaryotes, reproductive advantages at several levels of selection-genes, transposons, plasmids, cells, and clones-must be considered simultaneously to understand plasmid evolution. No level consistently prevails in conflict situations, and some reproductive units carry genes that restrain their own reproduction or survival, apparently to enhance the reproduction or survival of the higher-level reproductive units that carry them. Despite gene flow between plasmids and chromosomes, genes for certain functions show strong tendencies to occur on plasmids while others consistently occur on chromosomes. Functions generally associated with plasmids are diverse, but all are useful only in locally restricted contexts; it is argued that the selective consequences of the greater horizontal (within generation) transmission of plasmids are responsible for this pattern. The tendency for prokaryote transposons, which are also horizontally mobile, to carry genes similar to those commonly on plasmids supports this argument. The apparent trends in eukaryote plasmids and transposons to lack these same characters also accords with predictions of the local adaptation hypothesis, because genes on these genetic units are generally no more horizontally mobile than chromosomal genes. There are theoretical reasons to expect that plasmid genes tend to evolve more rapidly than chromosonal genes.
2831546|Seasonal delayed implantation has been described in 47 mammalian species in ten families, and has evolved independently at least 17 times. After reviewing earlier explanations for the phenomenon I present a hypothesis to explain the evolution of seasonal delay. I have assumed that females can increase their fitness by chossing their mates. Consequently, mating should take place during that time of year when the possibilities for female choice or male competition are greates. Time of birth is determined by ecological factors promoting survivals of the young, thereby setting certain constraints on the scheduling of the mating season. In certain situations, however, the possibilities for female choice or male competition can be increased by mating earlier; delay will increase female female fitness, and will thereby evolve. The hypothesis has been applied to all cases of seasonal delayed implantation.
2831547|We develop as a scientific research program (sensu Lakatos, 1978) the essential assumptions used in applying optimization techniques to the study of adaptation. The assumptions and hypotheses of the research program are of two kinds: (1) hard core and (2) strategic. Any prediction is derived from a conjuction of both hard-core and strategic hypothesis. The hard-core hypotheses define evolution as the change in the frequencies of strategies (rather than, for example, alleles or genotypes). Consequently, fitness is a property of strategies rather than genetic entities or individuals. Strategic hypotheses describe how a strategy's fitness depends on various inputs (e.g., mating success and energetic intake), and on how the feasible set of inputs to fitness is constrained. Strategies are described as being supervenient (sensu Rosenberg, 1985) on genotypes because while a given genotype specifies a strategy, a given strategy does not specify any finite set of genotypes. The supervenience of strategies lends credence to functional explanations of the occurrence of strategies. In the Optimization Research Program the function of a strategy is functional only in that it influences the per-capita growth rate of the strategy. A refuted prediction leads to modifying the strategic hypotheses rather that the hard-core ones. In a progressive research program, the new, modified hypotheses avoid being characterized as ad hoc by virtue of the fact that they can generate new testable predictions. Lakatos proposed that science progresses through a competition between different research programs as defined by their hard cores. We suggest that alternative hard cores might include the assumption of studies in quantitave genetics to the effect that genetics generally constrain adaptation at an evolutionarily stable equilibrium.
2831793|For many animals, the best defense against harsh environmental conditions is an escape to a hypometabolic or dormant state. Facultative metabolic rate depression is the common adaptive strategy of anaerobiosis, hibernation, and estivation, as well as a number of other arrested states. By reducing metabolic rate by a factor ranging from 5 to 100 fold or more, animals gain a comparable extension of survival time that can support months or even years of dormancy. The present review focuses on the molecular control mechanisms that regulate and coordinate cellular metabolism for the transition into dormancy. These include reversible control over the activity state of enzymes via protein phosphorylation or dephosphorylation reactions, pathway regulation via the association or dissociation of particle-bound enzyme complexes, and fructose-2, 6-bisphosphate regulation of the use of carbohydrate reserves for biosynthetic purposes. These mechanisms, their interactions, and the regulatory signals (e.g., second messenger molecules, pH) that coordinate them form a common molecular basis for metabolic depression in anoxia-tolerant vertebrates (goldfish, turtles) and invertebrates (marine molluscs), hibernation in small mammals, and estivation in land snails and terrestrial toads.
2831794|The understanding of sex determination is a fundamental goal in the study of eukaryotic developmental genetics. The mechanisms governing the generation of sexual dimorphism have been well characterized in Drosophila because of its amenability to both genetic manipulation and the application of the techniquies of modern molecular genetics. By using classical genetics to search for sex-transforming mutations and by analysing their phenotypes and how they interact, a picture has emerged involving a cascade of regulatory genes. The primary sex determining signal-the ratio of the number of X chromosomes to the number of sets of autosomes-sets this cascade into motion. Genetic evidence has suggested that the intervening genes in this pathway are active in females but not in males, whereas the final gene has active but opposing roles in the two sexes. This bifunctional locus is responsible for the repression of female differentiation genes in males and male differentiation genes in females. The cloning of the key genes of the regulatory cascade and the study of their transcription patterns have revealed that their different functional states in the two sexes do not result from control at the transcriptional level, as might have been expected. Instead, common primary transcripts are produced in male and female flies; these are then differentially spliced to encode sex-specific gene products. In this paper we focus on the contributions of molecular genetics to the understanding of sex determination. sufficient background is included for the reader to see how the models of the Drosophila sex determination system were first developed. We then show how the application of new technology has complemented the genetic approach and refined our understanding of the system. Current intensive research in this area should lead within the next few years to definitive knowledge at the molecular level of the cascade of differential splicing of regulatory genes, and how this hierarchy ultimately gives rise to the appropriate sex-specific patterns of structural gene expression that underlie sexual dimorphism.
2832368|Several features of the evolution of eyes and photoreceptors are examined in an effort to explore the relative roles of adaptation and historical and developmental constraints. Optical design shows clear evidence of adaptation, which is some respects approaches optima predictable from physics. The primate fovea, on the other hand, illustrates how adaptation can be channeled by developmental heritage. The primary structure of opsins reveal multiple evolutionary lineages within both Drosophila and humans. The pigments of vertebrate rods comprise a subset of opsins whose evolutionary relationships map onto the phylogeny of the parent species. The evolutionary reasons for why most rod pigments absord maximally at 500  10 nm are obscure, as there is no convincing explanation based on adaptation alone. Rods are appropriately distinguished from cones on the basis of which opsin gene is expressed. This criterion is likely to be in conflict with other difinitions in phyletic lines (e.g., geckos, snakes) that have long diurnal of noctural histories accompanied by loss of one or more opsin genes, followed by a secondary adaptation to life in a different photic environment. Color vision-a generalizable perception associated with the spectral composition of light-is usefully distinguished from wavelength-specific behaviors. The latter are also based on multiple visual pigments and more that one spectral class of receptors but cannot be altered by learning. The distinction is particularly forceful in bees, which exhibit both kinds of behavior. The evolution of primate color vision has been shaped by historical factors involving an extensive period of early mammalian nocturnality. Birds, by contrast, have more elaborate cones and a richer set of visual pigments. Avian color space can be represented in a tetrahedron.
2832369|Inducible defenses are responses activated through a previous encounter with a consumer or competitor that confer some degree of resistance to subsequent attacks. While the importance of inducible resistance has long been known in host-parasite interactions, it is only recently that its importance has emerged in other natural systems. Althought the structural defenses produced by invertebrates to their competitors and predators are by no means the same as an immune response triggered by parasites, these responses all share the properties of (1) specificity, (2) amplification and (3) memory. This review discusses the following ecological consequences and evolutionary causes of inducible defenses: (1) Inducible defenses render historical factors important in biological interactions and can affect the probability of individual survival and growth, as well as affect population dynamics of consumers in some circumstances. (2) Although the benefits of inducible defenses are often balanced by fitness costs, including reduced growth, reproductive output and survivorship, the role of costs and benefits in the evolution of inducible defenses is by no means clear. A more integrated approach would involve a multivariate analysis of the role of natural selection on the inducible characters of interest, their norms of reaction and correlated fitness characters. (3) The disproporcionate representation of inducible, morphological defenses among clonal organisms may be due to both a higher rate of origination and enhanced selection to maintain these defenses in clonal taxa. (4) Inducible defenses should be most common when reliable cues are available, attacks by biological agents are unpredictable, and the fitness gains of defenses are balanced by the costs. An integrated approach to studying inducible defenses would thus combine mechanistic estimates of costs, population-level estimates of defense effectiveness, and genetic estimates of correlations between fitness and inducible characters. This will allow us to estimate rates of evolution in these phenotypically plastic threshold characters.
10.1086/529562|The statistical technique of analysis of variance is often used by biologists as a measure of the relative strength or importance of causal factors. I argue that it is a tool ill-suited to this purpose, on several grounds. I suggest a superior alternative and outline its implications. I finish with a diagnosis of the source of erroran unwitting inheritance of bad philosophy that now requires the remedy of better philosophy.
10.1086/529558|Science and philosophy have a very long history, dating back at least to the 16th and 17th centuries, when the first scientist-philosophers, such as Bacon, Galilei, and Newton, were beginning the process of turning natural philosophy into science. Contemporary relationships between the two fields are still to some extent marked by the distrust that maintains the divide between the so-called two cultures. An increasing number of philosophers, however, are making conceptual contributions to sciences ranging from quantum mechanics to evolutionary biology, and a few scientists are conducting research relevant to classically philosophical fields of inquiry, such as consciousness and moral decision-making. This article will introduce readers to the borderlands between science and philosophy, beginning with a brief description of what philosophy of science is about, and including a discussion of how the two disciplines can fruitfully interact not only at the level of scholarship, but also when it comes to controversies surrounding public understanding of science.
10.1086/529561|We argue that philosophical and historical research can constitute a Biohumanities that deepens our understanding of biology itself, engages in constructive science criticism, helps formulate new visions of biology, and facilitates critical science communication. We illustrate these ideas with two recent experimental philosophy studies of the concept of the gene and of the concept of innateness conducted by ourselves and collaborators. We conclude that the complex and often troubled relations between science and society are critical to both parties, and argue that the philosophy and history of science can help to make this relationship work.
10.1086/529564|This paper focuses on abstraction as a mode of reasoning that facilitates a productive relationship between philosophy and science. Using examples from evolutionary developmental biology, I argue that there are two areas where abstraction can be relevant to science: reasoning explication and problem clarification. The value of abstraction is characterized in terms of methodology (modeling or data gathering) and epistemology (explanatory evaluation or data interpretation).
10.1086/529560|According to one traditional view, empirical science is necessarily preceded by philosophical analysis. Yet the relevance of philosophy is often doubted by those engaged in empirical sciences. I argue that these doubts can be substantiated by two theoretical problems that the traditional conception of philosophy is bound to face. First, there is a strong normative etiology to philosophical problems, theories, and notions that is difficult to reconcile with descriptive empirical study. Second, conceptual analysis (a role that is typically assigned to philosophy) seems to lose its object of study if it is granted that terms do not have purely conceptual meanings detached from their actual use in empirical sciences. These problems are particularly acute to the current naturalistic philosophy of science. I suggest a more concrete integration of philosophy and the sciences as a possible way of making philosophy of science have more impact.
10.1086/529559|There is a tension between science and philosophy, but this tension need not engender enmity or derision. Scientists and philosophers can work together, and we argue that working together is beneficial to both, even if it is sometimes uncomfortable. We offer examples of how philosophy can autonomously and effectively inform scientific practice. Science and philosophy share certain methodological concerns and practices; therefore, scientists who disregard philosophy are vulnerable to critical conceptual mistakes. If our arguments are correct, and if it can also be shown that science informs philosophy, then, while it is possible for both disciplines to operate autonomously, each should welcome the checks and balances that each provides for one another in the investigation and explanation of reality.
10.1086/529563|Ecology plays an important role in society, informing policy and management decisions across a variety of issues. As such, regularities in processes would indicate higher levels of predictive outcomes and would reduce the amount of research required for specific issues that policy makers need addressed. Scientific laws are considered the pinnacle of success and usefulness in addressing regularities or universal truths. Ecology studies complex interactions of individuals with unique behaviors, making the identification of laws problematic. Two equations, Malthusian growth and the logistic equation, continue to receive attention and are frequently cited as exemplar laws in ecology. However, an understanding of scientific laws shows that neither are good candidates for law status. In this paper, I will discuss why ecology is not well structured for scientific laws, as they are currently understood. Finally, I will consider alternative proposals for the role of laws in ecology and alternate forms of laws that may be applicable.
10.1086/529565|Ethics, a branch of philosophy, has a place in the regulatory framework of human subjects research. Sometimes, however, ethical concepts and arguments play a more central role in scientific activity. This can happen, for example, when violations of research norms are also ethical violations. In such a situation, ethical arguments can be marshaled to improve the quality of the scientific research. I explore two different examples in which philosophers and scientists have used ethical arguments to plead for epistemological improvements in the conduct of research. The first example deals with research dishonesty in pharmaceutical development. The second example is concerned with neuropsychological research using fMRI technology.
QRB830401|The nature of the biological relationships between cancers and allergies has intrigued researchers and health care providers for five decades. Three hypotheses have been proposed: antigenic stimulation predicts positive associations between cancers and allergies (i.e., allergy sufferers are more likely to get cancer), whereas immunosurveillance and prophylaxis predict inverse associations (i.e., allergy sufferers are less likely to get cancer). Immunosurveillance predicts inverse associations for cancers of all tissues and organ systems, and prophylaxis predicts inverse associations specifically for cancers of tissues and organ systems that interface with the external environment. To comparatively evaluate these hypotheses, we comprehensively reviewed the literature on cancer and allergies. We located 148 papers published from 1955 through 2006 that reported results of 463 studies of relationships between patients' histories of 11 specific allergies and cancers of 19 tissues and organ systems, and 183 studies of patients' histories of multiple allergies in relation to various types/sites of cancers. Analyses of these studies revealed that (1) frequencies of positive, inverse, and null allergy-cancer associations differed considerably among cancers of different tissues and organ systems; (2) more than twice as many studies reported inverse allergy-cancer associations as reported positive associations; (3) inverse associations were particularly common for cancers of the mouth and throat, brain glia, colon and rectum, pancreas, skin, and cervix but (4) particularly rare for cancers of the breast, prostate, and brain meninges, and for myeloma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and myelocytic leukemia; (5) lung cancer was positively associated with asthma but inversely associated with other allergies; (6) inverse associations with allergies were more than twice as common for cancers of nine tissues and organ systems that interface with the external environment compared to cancers of nine tissues and organ systems that do not interface with the external environment; and (7) eczema, hives, and allergies to animal dander and food were most frequently inversely associated with cancers of tissues that interface with the external environment. Taken together, these results are more consistent with the prophylaxis hypothesis than the two alternatives. IgE is a widespread and ancient immunoglobulin isotype in mammals, occurring among all known marsupials, monotremes, and eutherians. The IgE system and its associated allergy symptoms may serve a common protective function: the rapid expulsion of pathogens, dangerous natural toxins, and other carcinogenic antigens before they can trigger malignant neoplasia in exposed tissues.
QRB830402|The experience of animals in their natal or larval habitats has long been considered a potential source of variation in the habitat choices made later during dispersal. This idea has been of particular interest to evolutionary biologists because of the role such variation plays in the formation of host races and species. However, experiments that have tested for the effect of natal experience on habitat choice have produced widely variable results, leading to disagreement about the ecological importance of these effects. Here, I review the results of experiments within a broad range of animal taxa to assess the potential sources of variation in observed effects of natal experience on habitat choice. I provide a comprehensive summary of previous studies and demonstrate that when natal experience influences habitat choice, it nearly always increases the acceptance of the natal habitat type. Furthermore, I discuss mechanisms that allow natal experience to affect later habitat choice and describe how these mechanisms are influenced by various experimental design elements, such as the life stage at which early experience is provided to subjects. I conclude by reviewing the adaptive hypotheses for why animals might or might not respond to natal experience, and also how these hypotheses might explain interspecific differences in the importance of natal experience during habitat selection decisions. By understanding in what species, and in which contexts, experience influences habitat selection, we will be able to predict the ecological and evolutionary consequences of these effects more accurately.
10.1086/587826|Machine learning methods, a family of statistical techniques with origins in the field of artificial intelligence, are recognized as holding great promise for the advancement of understanding and prediction about ecological phenomena. These modeling techniques are flexible enough to handle complex problems with multiple interacting elements and typically outcompete traditional approaches (e.g., generalized linear models), making them ideal for modeling ecological systems. Despite their inherent advantages, a review of the literature reveals only a modest use of these approaches in ecology as compared to other disciplines. One potential explanation for this lack of interest is that machine learning techniques do not fall neatly into the class of statistical modeling approaches with which most ecologists are familiar. In this paper, we provide an introduction to three machine learning approaches that can be broadly used by ecologists: classification and regression trees, artificial neural networks, and evolutionary computation. For each approach, we provide a brief background to the methodology, give examples of its application in ecology, describe model development and implementation, discuss strengths and weaknesses, explore the availability of statistical software, and provide an illustrative example. Although the ecological application of machine learning approaches has increased, there remains considerable skepticism with respect to the role of these techniques in ecology. Our review encourages a greater understanding of machine learning approaches and promotes their future application and utilization, while also providing a basis from which ecologists can make informed decisions about whether to select or avoid these approaches in their future modeling endeavors.
10.1086/587825|The evolution of flapping flight in bats from an arboreal gliding ancestor appears on the surface to be a relatively simple transition. However, bat flight is a highly complex functional system from a morphological, physiological, and aerodynamic perspective, and the transition from a gliding precursor may involve functional discontinuities that represent evolutionary hurdles. In this review, I suggest a framework for a comprehensive treatment of the evolution of complex functional systems that emphasizes a mechanistic understanding of the initial state, the final state, and the proposed transitional states. In this case, bats represent the final state and extant mammalian gliders are used as a model for the initial state. To explore possible transitional states, I propose a set of criteria for evaluating hypotheses about the evolution of flight in vertebrates and suggest methods by which we can advance our understanding of the transition from gliding to flapping flight. Although it is impossible ever to know with certainty the sequence of events leading to flapping flight, the field of possibilities can be narrowed to those that maintain the functional continuity of the wing and result in improved aerodynamic performance across this transition. The fundamental differences between gliding and flapping flight should not necessarily be seen as evidence that this transition could not occur; rather, these differences point out compelling aspects of the aerodynamics of animal wings that require further investigation.
10.1086/590510|Although sexual interactions between species (reproductive interference) have been reported from a wide range of animal taxa, their potential for determining species coexistence is often disregarded. Here, we review evidence from laboratory and field studies illustrating that heterospecific sexual interactions are frequently associated with fitness loss and can have severe ecological and evolutionary consequences. We define reproductive interference as any kind of interspecific interaction during the process of mate acquisition that adversely affects the fitness of at least one of the species involved and that is caused by incomplete species recognition. We distinguish seven types of reproductive interference: signal jamming, heterospecific rivalry, misdirected courtship, heterospecific mating attempts, erroneous female choice, heterospecific mating, and hybridization. We then discuss the sex-specific costs of these types and highlight two typical features of reproductive interference: density-dependence and asymmetry. Similar to competition, reproductive interference can lead to displacement of one species (sexual exclusion), spatial, temporal, or habitat segregation, changes in life history parameters, and reproductive character displacement. In many cases, patterns of coexistence might be shaped by reproductive interference rather than by resource competition, as the presence of a few heterospecifics might substantially decrease reproductive success. Therefore, interspecific sexual interactions should receive more attention in ecological research. Reproductive interference has mainly been discussed in the context of invasive species or hybrid zones, whereas its influence on naturally-occurring sympatric species pairs has rarely been addressed. To improve our knowledge of the ecological significance of reproductive interference, findings from laboratory experiments should be validated in the field. Future studies should also focus on ecological mechanisms, such as temporal, spatial, or habitat partitioning, that might enable sexually interacting species to coexist. Reproductive interference also has implications for the management of endangered species, which can be threatened by sexual interactions with invasive or common species. Studies of reproductive interference might even provide new insights for biological pest control.
10.1086/590509|George Williams indicated that he would not expect senescence to evolve in organisms that lack a distinction between germ line and soma.
QRB4404|Interactions between individual consumer and resource organisms can be modified by neighbors, e.g., when herbivory depends on the identity or diversity of neighboring plants. Effects of neighbors on consumer-resource interactions (associational effects) occur in many systems, including plant-herbivore interactions, predator-prey interactions (mimicry), and plant-pollinator interactions. Unfortunately, we know little about how ecologically or evolutionarily important these effects are because we lack appropriate models and data to determine how neighbor effects on individuals contribute to net interactions at population and community levels. Here we supply a general definition of associational effects, review relevant theory, and suggest strategies for future theoretical and empirical work. We find that mathematical models from a variety of fields suggest that individual-level associational effects will influence population and community dynamics when associational effects create local frequency dependence. However, there is little data on how local frequency dependence in associational effects is generated, or on the form or spatial scale of that frequency dependence. Similarly, existing theory lacks consideration of nonlinear and spatially explicit frequency dependence. We outline an experimental approach for producing data that can be related to models to advance our understanding of how associational effects contribute to population and community processes.
QRB4651|On the basis that Darwin's theory of evolution encompasses two logically independent processes (common descent and natural selection), the only figure in
QRB4728|For almost 40 years, studies of whole-organism performance have formed a cornerstone of evolutionary physiology. Although its utility as a heuristic guide is beyond question, and we have learned much about morphological evolution from its application, the ecomorphological paradigm has frequently been applied to performance evolution in ways that range from unsatisfactory to inappropriate. More importantly, the standard ecomorphological paradigm does not account for tradeoffs among performance and other traits, nor between performance traits that are mediated by resource allocation. A revised paradigm that includes such tradeoffs, and the possible ways that performance and fitness-enhancing traits might affect each other, could potentially revivify the study of phenotypic evolution and make important inroads into understanding the relationships between morphology and performance and between performance and Darwinian fitness. We describe such a paradigm, and discuss the various ways that performance and key life-history traits might interact with and affect each other. We emphasize both the proximate mechanisms potentially linking such traits, and the likely ultimate factors driving those linkages, as well as the evolutionary implications for the overall, multivariate phenotype. Finally, we highlight several research directions that will shed light on the evolution and ecology of whole-organism performance and related life-history traits.
QRB4274|Beginning with Darwin, some have argued that predation on other vertebrates dates to the earliest stages of hominid evolution, and can explain many uniquely human anatomical and behavioral characters. Other recent workers have focused instead on scavenging, or particular plant foods. Foraging theory suggests that inclusion of any food is influenced by its profitability and distribution within the consumers habitat. The morphology and likely cognitive abilities of
QRB4638|A unified system of bioenergetic parameters that describe thermal regulation and energy metabolism in many passerine and non-passerine species has been developed. These parameters have been analyzed as functions of ambient temperature, and bioenergetic models for various species have been developed. The level of maximum food energy or maximal existence metabolism (MPE) is 1.3 times higher in passerines than in non-passerines, which is consistent with the ratio of their basal metabolic rates (BMR). The optimal ambient temperature for maximizing productive processes (e.g., reproduction, molting) is lower for passerines than for non-passerines, which allows passerines to have higher production rates at moderate ambient temperatures. This difference in the optimal ambient temperature may explain the variation in bioenergetic parameters along latitudinal gradients, such as the well-known ecological rule of clutch size (or mass) increase in the more northerly passerine birds. The increased potential for productive energy output in the north may also allow birds to molt faster there. This phenomenon allows passerine birds to occupy a habitat that fluctuates widely in ambient temperature compared with non-passerine birds of similar size. Passerines have a more effective system for maintaining heat balance at both high and low temperatures. The high metabolism and small body sizes of passerines are consistent with omnivore development and with ecological plasticity. Among large passerines, the unfavorable ratio of MPE to BMR should decrease the energy that is available for productive processes. This consequence limits both the reproductive output and the development of long migration (particularly in
QRB4559|Late Pleistocene extinctions occurred globally over a period of about 50,000 years, primarily affecting mammals of  44 kg body mass (i.e., megafauna) first in Australia, continuing in Eurasia and, finally, in the Americas. Polarized debate about the cause(s) of the extinctions centers on the role of climate change and anthropogenic factors (especially hunting). Since the late 1960s, investigators have developed mathematical models to simulate the ecological interactions that might have contributed to the extinctions. Here, we provide an overview of the various methodologies used and conclusions reached in the modeling literature, addressing both the strengths and weaknesses of modeling as an explanatory tool. Although late Pleistocene extinction models now provide a solid foundation for viable future work, we conclude, first, that single models offer less compelling support for their respective explanatory hypotheses than many realize; second, that disparities in methodology (both in terms of model parameterization and design) prevent meaningful comparison between models and, more generally, progress from model to model in increasing our understanding of these extinctions; and third, that recent models have been presented and possibly developed without sufficient regard for the transparency of design that facilitates scientific progress.
QRB4626|Several unresolved issues, paradoxes, and information voids characterize the field of evolution of aging. The recent discovery of aging-like phenomenon in
QRB4707|Many models of evolution calculate the rate of evolution by multiplying the rate at which new mutations originate within a population by a probability of fixation. Here we review the historical origins, contemporary applications, and evolutionary implications of these origin-fixation models, which are widely used in evolutionary genetics, molecular evolution, and phylogenetics. Origin-fixation models were first introduced in 1969, in association with an emerging view of molecular evolution. Early origin-fixation models were used to calculate an instantaneous rate of evolution across a large number of independently evolving loci; in the 1980s and 1990s, a second wave of origin-fixation models emerged to address a sequence of fixation events at a single locus. Although origin-fixation models have been applied to a broad array of problems in contemporary evolutionary research, their rise in popularity has not been accompanied by an increased appreciation of their restrictive assumptions or their distinctive implications. We argue that origin-fixation models constitute a coherent theory of mutation-limited evolution that contrasts sharply with theories of evolution that rely on the presence of standing genetic variation. A major unsolved question in evolutionary biology is the degree to which these models provide an accurate approximation of evolution in natural populations.
2827148|Trivers and Hare (1976) predicted that the degree of genetic relatedness between hymenopteran workers and their brood is a fundamental factor in influencing the amount of resource allocated to the sexes. An analysis of a wide body of literature on ants (Family: Formicidae) strongly supports this genetic relatedness hypothesis (GRH). Their predictions on the differences in investment between monogynous, polygynous, slavemaking, and parasitic colonies are supported qualitatively and quantitatively both across and within species. Another explanation of female bias, local mate competition (LMC) (e.g., Alexander and Sherman, 1977), is found to be inconsistent with the data. The ratio of investment in species with non-conspecific brood care, most colonies producing either extremely male or female biased broods, as well as the suggestion that male ants may be highly limited in the number of females they can fertilize, are incompatible with LMC predictions. A limitation in the number of matings on the part of an individual male may mean that mating strategies in ant sexes could be quite different from those in most other species. The bimodal sexual investment pattern appears to be a mixed "evolutionary stable strategy and state" and seems proximately determined by the amount of food resources. Abundance favors females, scarcity favors males. Further utilization of game theory approaches may be quite useful in explaining both individual colony and population-level sexual investment values.
2827149|The intensity of competition is a physiological concept, related directly to the well-being of individual organisms but only indirectly and conditionally to their fitness, and even more indirectly to the evolution of populations and the structure of communities. The importance of competition is primarily an ecological and evolutionary concept, related directly to the ecology and fitness of individuals but only indirectly to their physiological states. The intensity of competition is not necessarily correlated with the intensities of predation, disturbance, abiotic stress, or other ecological processes. The importance of competition is necessarily relative to the importances of other processes. Intensity refers primarily to the processes of present competition, whereas importance refers primarily to the products of past competition. The distinction between the intensity and the importance of competition clarifies two long-standing ecological debates. Some ecologists have proposed that competition is greater in more stressful habitats, others the opposite, and still others that no such relationship exists. Evidence cited to refute or support these positions often confuses intensity and importance. Distinguishing between them focuses questions more sharply and indicates what sorts of new evidence should be sought. The more widely known debate over the prevalence of competition as an agent of community structure is a debate about the importance of competition, but evidence about the intensity of competition has often been used by both sides. We argue that intensity and importance need not be correlated, and so measurements of the intensity of competition are not directly relevant to this debate. This distinction also generates testable hypotheses and suggests directions for research. For example, we hypothesize that competition can be unimportant even if it is very intense: no such hypothesis is possible unless importance is distinguished from intensity. We discuss the application of these ideas to methods and theories used to study competition, ecological communities, and the evolution of competitive ability. We advocate a research approach that presumes multiple, interacting causes, including competition, affecting community structure, and we show how the distinction between intensity and importance helps to make this feasible.
2827745|The problems facing science education in general and biological education in particular in the twentieth century have been carefully scrutinized and delineated. The lack of response to published studies and reports is primarily due to the absence of a mechanism to activate change and to overcome the inertia of an educational bureaucracy in which teacher preparation, textbooks, examinations, and, indeed, all facets of the system are mutually reinforcing. Critical recommendations of the past are cited, culminating in the only national activist educational project ever undertaken in the United States-the curriculum development movement of the 1950s and 1960s. This movement is viewed from the 25-year personal involvement of the author, and its successes and failures are delineated. About every 20 years the public seems to become exercised about the status of public education, but until a mechanism exists to which the educational system is responsive, efforts at educational reform are largely local, ad hoc, and ephemeral. Education is a problem of national concern, but in the United States the tradition of local control causes national involvement to be viewed as a threat. The curriculum development movement was an enterprise that introduced a pattern of hybrid vigor into the system while, in a apparently contradictory fashion, local control has fostered both parochialism and stasis that have resulted in an uncoordinated patchwork of educational objectives and varying degrees of success in their achievement. The author urges a national coordination of educational goals and the implementation of an acceptable mechanism for inducing change within the present system.
2827744|Social dominance is usually viewed from the perspective of intragroup competition over access to limited resources. The present paper, while not denying the importance of such competition, discusses the dominance concept among monkeys and apes in the context of affiliative bonding, social tolerance, and the reconciliation of aggressive conflicts. Two basic proximate mechanisms are supposed to provide a link between dominance and interindividual affiliation, namely, formalization of the dominance relationship (i.e., unequivocal communication of status), and conditional reassurance (i.e., the linkage of friendly coexistence to formalization of the relationship). Ritualized submission is imposed upon losers of dominance struggles by winners; losers are offered a "choice" between continued hostility or a tolerant relationship with a clearly signalled difference in status. If these two social mechanisms are lacking, aggression is bound to have dispersive effects. In their presence, aggression becomes a well-integrated, even constructive component of social life. In some higher primates this process of integration has reached the stage where status differences are strongly attenuated. In these species, sharing and trading can take the place of overt competition. The views underlying this "reconciled hierarchy" model are only partly new, as is evident from a review of the ethological literature. Many points are illustrated with data on a large semi-captive colony of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), particularly data related to striving for status, reconciliation behavior, and general association patterns. These observations demonstrate that relationships among adult male chimpanzees cannot be described in terms of a dichotomy between affiliative and antagonistic tendencies. Male bonding in this species has not been achieved by an elimination of aggression, but by a set of powerful buffering mechanisms that mitigate its effects. Although female chimpanzees do exhibit a potential for bonding under noncompetitive conditions, they appear to lack the buffering mechanisms of the males.
2829083|Social conflict is defined operationally as occurring when the behavior of two (or more) individuals indicates that their motivational priorities are incompatible: they seek the same thing of different things, and both cannot be satisfied. Social dominance is defined as consistent winning at points of social conflict, regardless of the tactic used. Four problems generated by many current uses of the social dominance concept are critically reviewed here. (1) Dominance is sometimes equated with and is sometimes operationally defined as priority of access to resources. It is argued that dominance functions to resolve many kinds of social conflict, and not just those involving resources. (2) A tendency to describe all conflict resolution by using the dominance/subordination paradigm obstructs consideration of other relationships, specifically egalitarian ones. Egalitarian relationships are defined. (3) A Tendency to link dominance and aggression causes non-aggressive patterns of dominance(e.g., passive refusal to cooperate, manipulation) to be neglected. (4) When dominance is used as an intervening variable to define a dyadic relationship in many contexts, investigators may overlook important exceptions. Since costs and benefits of winning a given conflict are context-dependent, a dyad member may be dominant in one context but not in others (the "spheres-of-dominance" phenomenon). Social dominance can be based on aggresion (primary social dominance) or on leverate (secondary social dominance). Leverage is discussed and illustrated. Since social dominance is defined as consistent winning, regardless of what tactic is used, a smaller or weaker individual can sometimes be socially dominant to a larger or stronger one, often because of a leverage advantage. Both dominance/subordination and egalitarian relationships are phenotypes. Game theory can clarify the conditions under which particular phenotypes emerge; a model (Parker and Rubenstein, 1981) is presented, modified to account for leverage costs, that predicts the conditions under which various phenotypes should occur and when individuals with less resource-holding potential (RPH) should be socially equal or dominant to others with great RPH. Finally, the aggression of larger dyad members may be suppressed or modulated in some conflict contexts by means of affiliative social bonds (pair-bonds, parent-offspring bonds, or friendships).
2829082|Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis) is an arid-zone, perennial shrub which is being domesticated to exploit the liquid wax contained in the seed. The xeromorphic adaptations that allow jojoba to survive and reproduce in its arid habitat present special problems for its domestication. An accout of the natural history of jojoba introduces the specialized characteristics of the species. Details of the morphological and anatomical adaptations are then reviewed. The physiological adaptations of jojoba to temperature, water, and salt stresses in terms of water relations, growth and photosynthesis are extensively reviewed. The implications of these adaptations for survival in the wild and for domestication are discussed. The control of the reproductive cycle by temperature and water availability is also an adaptation to an arid habitat. The responses of flowering and seed growth to a range of environmental factors are considered, and the implications ofr domestication discussed. It is concluded that the extensive existing variability in the physiologycal responses to environmental factors will permit the selection of a range of jojoba cultivars.
2826772|Halophytes are plants adapted to live in a saline environment, be it seawater, a salt-water marsh, or a salt-desert; nearly all are angiosperms. The growth of dicotyledonous halophytes is frequently stimulated by salt, although that of most monocotyledonous halophytes is not. Survival requires osmotic adjustment, which is commonly achieved by using the ions present in the environment and which is associated with succulence in dicotyledons but generally not in monocotyledons. At the cellular level, survival depends on the ability of the plant to compartmentalize, in vacuoles, the ions used for osmotic adjustment, particularly sodium and chloride. A vital feature of the physiology of these plants is their ability to accumulate sufficient ions to maintain growth while avoiding either a water deficit or an excess of ions, either of which could prove toxic. The means by which relatively constant ion concentrations in the shoot are maintained are considered. The conclusion is drawn that ion uptake by the roots is not controlled by the shoots; rather, shoot growth is regulated by the supply of ions from the roots. The agricultural importance of halophytes in a world where most of the water is salty at any given moment is emphasized.
2826773|Parents will increase their fitness by varying the sex ratio of their progeny in response to differences in the costs and benefits of producing sons and daughters. Sex differences in energy requirements or viability during early growth, differences in the relative fitness of male and female offspring, and competition or cooperation between siblings or between siblings and parents might all be expected to affect the sex ratio. Although few trends have yet been shown to be consistent, growing numbers of studies have demonstrated significant variation in birth sex ratios in non-human mammals. These are commonly cited as evidence of adaptive manipulation of the sex ratio. However, several different mechanisms may affect the birth sex ratio, and not all of them are likely to be adaptive. Valid evidence that sex ratio trends are adaptive must be based either on the overall distribution of those trends or on cases in which the sex ratio can be shown to vary with the relative fitness of producing sons and daughters. The distribution of observed sex ratio trends does not conform closely to the predictions of any single adaptive theory. Some recent studies, however, indicate that, within species, the sex ratio varies with the costs or benefits of producing male or female offspring.
2819612|The phytochrome in dark-grown seedlings was found to be present entirely as P
2819615|Thermostability of plant cells is due to the resistance of their proteins to denaturation, resistance to injurious metabolic changes, reparatory capacity, and capacity to harden. Hardiness includes the stability of several functions and increases the resistance to several injurious factors. It varies with the tissue and stage of growth. The thermostability of the proteins is constant in higher plants but changes with temperature in algae. Frost-hardening increases resistance to several injurious factors, including heat. The denaturation theory of injury satisfactorily explains some of the data.
2819611|Early physiological experiments of the effects of light on seed germination, flowering, growth, and etiolation led to the characterization of the photomorphogenetic pigment. A spectrophotometric measurement based on the photoreversible nature of the pigment showed the presence of the pigment, named phytochrome, in dark-grown seedlings. Phytochrome was purified as a chromoprotein. The absorption spectra of the purified pigment confirm the early conclusions based on action spectra.
2819613|The investigation of the biochemical aspects of photomorphogenesis has revealed an early response in carbohydrate metabolism following a brief exposure of etiolated plant tissue to red radiant energy (660 ). An enhancement of starch utilization may be observed by microscopic examination of leaf sections, and chemical assay reveals increased degradation of both starch and sugars. Furthermore, reversal of these observed decreases in carbohydrate content, determined as changes in total soluble sugars and starch content in etiolated corn seedling leaf sections, may be induced by a short exposure to far-red energy (730 ) immediately after a red treatment. Correlated with these biochemical responses there occurs a strong photomorphogenic leaf expansion. Carbohydrate changes may be one of the initial manifestations of phytochrome-mediated morphological reactions.
2818210|Sympatric congeneric anurans exist together under systems of adjustment to coexistence of their populations, systems that reflect a past history of the populations under allopatry and that also reflect interspecific interactions under subsequent sympatry. Sympatric species may affect one another through mismating even when genetic interchange is barred by hybrid sterility or hybrid inviability. Several isolating mechanisms usually operate to restrict hybridization of any given pair of sympatric anurans, with difference in mating call usually of paramount importance. Some important parameters of the call (viz., frequency and pulse rate) are usually functions of body size, and hence differentiation in these attributes may be a secondary effect of adaptive differentiation in body size. Other parameters of the call appear to have been the subject of selection per se. Ecological isolating mechanisms may represent side-products of adaptation to different ways of life in allopatric populations. Postmating mechanisms of hybrid inviability or sterility reflect different developmental systems which are not necessarily the genetic systems involved in production of the phenotypic characters used in morphological classification. Examination of various allopatric and sympatric species pairs in the anurans indicates that, as known at present, there is no predictable sequence in which the various kinds of isolating mechanisms evolve. However, sympatric species always differ in mating call, and some allopatric populations have been shown to differ enough for the females to discriminate between the calls of their own and foreign males. In general, genetic incompatibility seems to be the last isolating mechanism to evolve. Some sympatric species are interfertile, and some allopatric species are intersterile. Greater differentiation of mating call in the overlap zone of species pairs than in non-overlap areas is taken as evidence for reinforcement of a difference in call through limited hybridization and selection against the hybridizers.
2818212|This review analyzes the various substances affecting leaf abscission, their possible mechanisms of action, and their relationship to the metabolism of senescent organs. Abscission is characterized by cell wall hydrolysis and separation of middle lamellae in an area known as the abscission zone. The pectic changes occurring in the separation area may be inhibited or stimulated by auxins, but the mechanism for these effects is unknown. The regulation of abscission appears to be by two systems, a restraint of abscission by auxin through a correlative action, and a provocation of abscission which may most likely be attributable to non-auxinic substances. Among these abscission stimulators are amino acids, ethylene gas, and apparently numerous other types of regulators yet to be identified.
2818211|Studies of calling songs and seasonal life histories of crickets and long-horned grasshoppers have revealed many species that were unrecognized on the basis of morphological studies. Once recognized, such cryptic species usually prove to have identifying morphological characters. Nearly one-fourth of the ensiferan species of eastern United States are cryptic, and high proportions of cryptic species have been found in other groups that have conspicuous, non-morphological, species recognition signals or that have been intensively studied. Similarly high proportions of cryptic species must exist in many groups which have not been intensively studied and in which cryptic species are difficult to detect. The existence of cryptic species demonstrates the lack of correlation between reproductive isolation and degree of morphological differentiation. Therefore the taxonomic treatment of morphologically similar, allopatric or allochronic populations must remain subjective and arbitrary until we have reliable criteria for predicting the evolutionary consequences of such populations becoming sympatric and synchronic.
2820312|Psychogenetics, the study of heritable factors in mental functioning, is just beginning to emerge as a well-defined discipline. Much of our information on genetic factors in human behavior, both normal and abnormal, has been derived from twin family studies. Such studies have been particularly fruitful with respect to schizophrenia. Although the precise etiology of this psychosis is still unknown, data pointing toward the operation of genic elements have been consistent as well as replicable. As for traits falling into the normal range of variation, extensive investigations have been carried out with respect to intellectual performance during the past century, and here, too, constantly accumulating evidence indicates that genetic factors strongly influence measurable intellectual functioning at all age levels, including the period of senescence. Thus, despite its popularity among psychologists, the concept of the human mind as a tabula rasa upon which the environment inscribes its diversity is no longer tenable.
2820313|Although there has long been an idea that heredity plays an important role in the determination of life span, this concept has been "more taken for granted than supported by exact scientific investigation." Since one cannot extrapolate directly from experimental organisms to man nor carry out studies of a similar nature in man, it is necessary to use the direct epidemiological approach, determining first of all whether the observed differences in mortality follow family patterns. Some of the very early, more recently published, and current family studies of life span are summarized and reviewed critically. The results of the genealogy studies, (including both large individual kinships, e.g. the Hyde family, Peirce family, etc., and the collections of genealogies, e.g. Foster's Peerage Burke's Landed Gentry, Society of Friends records, Finnish and Swedish noble and middle class families), as well as studies involving samples from special subgroups of the population (families of workingmen, nonagenarians, senescent twins, insurance applicants, etc.) appear to show various family patterns. However, the suggested positive relationships, as well as any lack of relationships, are all explicable by one bias or another involved in the selection, completeness, source, or validity of the data. The apparent explanation for the paucity of investigations of family patterns of causes of death probably resides in the fact that the same difficulties present in the longevity studies also apply to the investigation of causes of death. In addition, problems arise from the variability in diagnostic criteria and the interpretation of competing causes. Moreover, all except the current studies involve deaths occurring in the pre-antibiotic, even in the pre-public health, era. The influence of sanitary and nutritional factors and epidemic diseases in altering the life span, despite the biological potential, might be considerable. Therefore, although many data are available on family patterns of longevity and a few on causal relationships, any attempt to interpret the findings in terms of a current population is hardly feasible. In view of this situation, two studies of patterns of mortality and aging have been initiated at Johns Hopkins University. The major investigation is a Community-Based Population Study comparing the mortality experience of corresponding relatives of a sample of deaths which occured in Baltimore in 1960 and of living matched controls, in order to determine whether there are family patterns of mortality and, if so, their nature in respect to age at death and causes of death. The second and smaller investigation, designed to identify in living subjects possible indicators of family patterns of mortality, involves a special group of 500 living males who are participating in a longitudinal study of aging. Some preliminary findings of both the Community-Based Population Investigation and the Special Group Study are Presented. It is concluded that at present, despite all the recorded information and presumptive evidence, the problem of the genetic aspects of mortality and life span remains to be resolved. Large, collaborative projects both for retrospective family data analysis and for longitudinal follow-up of subjects are recommended for future study.
2820034|The toxicity of zinc compounds to aquatic animals is modified by several environmental factors, particularly the hardness of the dilution water, the dissolved oxygen concentration, and temperature. The resistance of aquatic animals to zinc poisoning varies with species. It is modified by acclimatization, and possibly by age, Survival time is inversely proportional to concentration of zinc. For these reasons concentrations reported as lethal have varied widely. The mode of toxic action of zinc is uncertain. At acutely toxic concentrations it probably kills fish by destroying gill tissues. At chronically toxic levels it may induce stress resulting in death. The action of zinc undoubtedly differs at different concentrations, it varies with life history, and it is non-specific.
2820035|Data available on the photosynthetic efficiency of forest trees are reviewed. Results from the different sources suggest that over a growing season a stand of trees has a relatively high photosynthetic efficiency in comparison to that of an agricultural crop. Three factors that possibly could cause a high over-all efficiency are suggested: (a) low efficiency of agricultural crops in the early part of the season until canopy closure, whereas the tree stands studied usually had complete canopy closure all season; (b) the available forest data are from areas with low light intensity, which tends to increase the efficiency of light utilization; (c) carbon dioxide becomes limiting for photosynthesis in stands of plants under full sunlight, but because of the physical structure of the plant communities, forest stands possibly have more carbon dioxide available to them than do agricultural crop.
2820036|The effect of parental age on the characteristics of the offspring is considered. In man the overall incidence of congenital abnormalities increases with maternal age, although the first born may be slightly more prone to certain abnormalities than would be expected. In the mouse and guinea pig the incidence of certain abnormalities decreases with maternal age. An explanation is offered for the decrease. In several organisms, it is likely that minimum developmental variability occurs for offspring from mothers of intermediate age, which is usually the time of greatest reproductive capacity. Recombination fractions vary with maternal age in Drosophila melanogaster, and with maternal and paternal ages in the mouse. In man, non-disjunction increases with maternal age. In man some dominant mutations increase with parental age; furthermore, paternal age is an important factor controlling the secondary sex ratio. Non-genic (cytoplasmic) factors can accelerate or decelerate aging in some organisms, e.g. rotifers. It is considered that the development of this approach will be important in aging research. Some plant evidence is briefly mentioned.
2819517|This review discusses certain peculiarities of the effects of radiation on living organisms, the effect of irradiation on cells, tissues, and organs, and the effects of total and local irradiation on the development of amphibians. The effects of irradiation on amphibians are compared with the effects of irradiation on higher forms (mammals, including man) and lower forms (invertebrates, microorganisms, and plants), especially by considering general problems such as formation of giant cells, phagocytosis and regression, sensitivity of cells, tissues, and organisms, and the problem of radio-stimulation. The influence of irradiation on sex cells, fertilization, embryonic development, larval development, and adult amphybians is considered.
2819340|Genetic tumors occurring in interspecific hybrids of certain plant genera, especially Nicotiana, are reviewed. Cytogenetic, physiological, and radiation studies on these tumors are discussed in relation to current hypotheses regarding mechanisms responsible for tumor initiation and development.
2819341|As currently conceived, the biological effects of temperature extremes on terrestrial organisms are tacitly limited to chiefly the survival of individual adults, or again individually, destruction of young. A review of the literature pertaining to high temperatures relative to gametogenesis indicates the existence of a third possibility that involves multigeneration reproductive success or failure and thus operates at the populational rather than the individual level. Investigations of the reproductive consequences of above normal temperatures and the involvement of gametogenesis have been wholly random in their selection. Both plants and animals appear to be in some way subject to these heat effects. Excessively high but individually non-lethal temperatures may induce total aspermia or a hightened mutation rate. Apparently there are no observations that indicate a similar susceptibility in female gamete formation. Heat effects inflicted during male gametogenesis in the scrotal mammals furnish indubitable evidence that even somatically optimum temperatures will produce sterility. Somewhat similar susceptibility appears to occur in plants and animals other than the scrotal mammals. High but nonsterilizing heat may induce mutation rates up to a Q
2819690|The classical view of human sexuality holds that man is invested with a particular sex within which he, as an individual, develops. Recent attempts to alter this conception and to explain psychosexual maturation as developing from a neutral rather than a sexual base are here reviewed and criticized. Essentially, a psychosexual neutrality-at-birth theory holds that male and female patterns of sexual orientation and behavior are attributable exclusively to learning or imprinting phenomena. This theory is derived from clinical observations of individuals manifesting morphological sexual incongruities (hermaphrodites, pseudohermaphrodites, etc.). This article defends the view of inherent somatic sexuality organizing man's psychosexual development by: (a) reviewing man's place on the evolutionary continuum, and the broad base of sexual behavior within this discussion must be considered; (b) presenting normative, clinical and anthropological evidence inferring a particular sexual predilection birth; (c) showing genetic, hormonal, and neural indications for sexual predisposition; (d) refuting the extend of imprinting involved in humans; and (e) showing the futility of separating "nurture" from "nature" in reference to the role of learning and acquisition of a gender role.
2819689|Growth in tissues and organs can be stimulated by either partial ablation or increased demands for physiological activity. Both causes appear to operate via identical pathways whereby the mounting requirements for extra functional output stimulate DNA replication and concomitantly promote specific protein synthesis. When certain representative organs are reduced in mass to varying extents, the time of onset and maximum response coincide within wide rangers of injury, but the magnitudes and durations of the responses are directly proportional to the intensities of the stimuli.
2818919|Nematodes are known to be unique among animals both with respect to the structure of their somatic muscle cells and to the spatial relations these cells have with the nervous system. It has been suggested that the nematode neuromuscular junction might also be unique. Although a century of investigation of the anatomy and physiology of round worms had shed little light on the question, recent work in electronmicroscopy and electrophysiology indicates that nematode neuromuscular junctions are not fundamentally different, either structurally or functionally, from those of other animals.
2818920|This new approach to immunology engenders a unified conception of embryogenesis, cellular differentiation, mitotic- and growth-control, carcinogenesis, autoimmunity, and aging. The primary and intrinsic function of the complex lymphoid system is postulated to be the central regulation of the growth and size of target tissues throughout the body. Where tissues are normally freely infiltrated by small lymphocytes, these cells, bearing specific "mitotic control proteins" (MCPs), constitute the effectors of symmetrical mitosis; where target tissues are located behind a blood-tissue barrier, specific humoral MCPs (possibly a
2825494|An attempt has been made to examine the exponential rate of increase of the great discoveries, the "milestones," in the rise of biology from the beginning of the seventeenth century, and particularly in the rise to genetics from the beginning of the twentieth century. The biological sciences in general, during the three centuries named, exhibit a doubling of the number of great discoveries in each fifty years. Genetics, in the twentieth century, has risen much faster. Its doubling time for the most significant discoveries has been about twenty-tow and a half years. Either of these rates is of course far slower than the exponential rise in the total output of biological science, the number of scientists, or the cost of science, which have been generally reported to double about every ten years or less. It follows that, as time passes, and until these exponential rates become considerably altered, a relationship of diminishing returns is quite evident. As time passes, even though the most significant discoveries continue to increase exponentially, it takes a greater total output, a greater number of (assisting?) scientists, and greater amounts of money to yield a set quantity of major new findings. The rapid rise of the life sciences cannot continue its present course into the twenty-first century without meeting ineluctablelimits to expansion. It may be argued that as in other human spheres of activity, so too in natural science there are limits to growth which we are rapidly approaching. From the predictable asymptote only unpredictable breakthroughs might deliver us.
2825493|In response to a stimulus, a sensation is tridimensional: qualitative, quantitative, and affective. The affective part of sensation, pleasure or displeasure, depends on the qualities of the stimulus. Within a narrow range of intensity, chemical, thermal, and mechanical stimuli are able to arouse pleasure. In addition, pleasure depends on the internal state of the subject. This is easily observed in the case of temperature: pleasure is is aroused by a warm stimulus in a hypothermic subject and by a cold stimulus in a hyperthermic subject and by a cold stimulus in a hyperthermic subject. This property of given stimulus in a hypothermic subject and by a cold stimulus in a hyperthermic subject. This property of a given stimulus to arouse pleasure or displeasure according to the internal state of the subject is termed alliesthesia. Alliesthesia is also produced by chemical and mechanical stimuli. Acquired preferences or aversions for alimentary stimuli represent a case of alliesthesia. In the same way, the capacity of any indifferent stimulus to become rewarding, or punishing, by association with some reward or punishment, is also a case of alliesthesia. In all cases, pleasure is a sign of a stimulus useful to the subject; displeasure a sign of danger. Usefulness and danger are judged by the central nervous system with reference to homeostasis and the set point of the implied regulation. Pleasure and displeasure thus appear to motivate useful behaviors.
2824426|Selected earlier contributions by the author concerning the development of Fundulus are reviewed. These concerned the normal development of the egg, and vital staining and transplantation experiments. The transplantations involved grafting of portions of the shield or the germ ring either to the shield or yolk-sac epithelium of gastrulae the same age as the donors. Grafting of portions of the germ ring to the yolk-sac epithelium led generally to negative results. Grafting portions of either germ ring or shield into the shield itself led to the differentiation in the hosts of many supernumerary structures, which were frequently surprisingly well organized. This was true also for grafts of shield material implanted onto the yolk-sac epithelium, even after they had been minced or otherwise fragmented. The results indicate that the Fundulus gastrula has considerable ability to regulate. Study of the behavior of hatchlings, reported in the 1950's, suggested that the central nervous system also has considerable powers of regulation, since when the brain contained accessory parts and was larger than normal, the functional behavior of the hatchlings was less disturbed than might have been expected. New results presented here for the first time report the study of hosts, carrying brain grafts, that were allowed to develop to adult stages. Of 21 specimens into which shield grafts had been implanted at gastrula stages, and which had been allowed to develop to the adult stage, 5 maintained brain grafts of appreciable size attached to or forming part of the primary brain.
2825665|The allometric relationship between supportive tissue mass and total body mass has been investigated in spiders, freshwater mollusks, and bird eggs. These results were compared with data available for birds, land mammals, whales, and a rattlesnake. The comparison indicates that the change in supportive tissue mass as a function of change in total body mass is surprisingly similar in all the organisms considered: a ten-fold change in total body mass is accompanied by a thirteen-fold change in supportive tissue mass. Supportive tissue makes up a larger fraction of the total mass in organisms with external skeletons than in those with internal skeletons. Within the latter group, the vertebrates, the amount of total mass is similar, except for the whales. When corrected for true body mass, whales contain smaller amounts of bone (16-26%) than do land mammals, a difference much less than previously reported. In no case did support tissue mass exceed 20 per cent of total body mass for mobile organisms.
2825666|The phenomenon of male parental care, which is unusually common in bony fishes, has been the subject of numerous evolutionary hypotheses in recent years. In an effort to evaluate these hypotheses the results of a survey of all families whose species exhibit parental care is presented. Sexual selection and female choice for male parental behavior only partially explain this phenomenon. Although females may benefit by males being the care-giving individuals, these benefits may apply equally to males when females are the care-givers. The information avaliable suggests that the effects of care-giving on the future reproduction of the male and the male's provability of genetic relatedness to his mate's offspring are major factors in the evolution and maintanance of male parental behavior. The costs of care-giving are minimized by mating strategies thath enagle males to give parental care and pursue further mating simulteneously. Male fishes with external fertilization often attain a relatively high probability of genetic relatedness to the offspring at the oviposition site. This is a precondition for the evaluation and maintenance of parental behavior.
2825808|This paper attempts to integrate the physiological and ecological perspectives of the reproductive biology of the house mouse (Mus musculus). The endeavor is made within a larger context to provide a prototype for mammalian reproductive ecology in general. Specifically, the environmental regulation of the reproduction of Mus musculus is examined in relation to its ecological opportunism and, in particular, in relation to its history of global colonization. House mice can live as commensals of man or under totally feral conditions. Stable, high density, commensal populations are characterized by an insular division of the living space into demeterritories, each dominated by a single male. Feral populations typically are characterized by temporal, spatial, and social instability. Territoriality is improbable under such conditions, particularly given the necessity for large home ranges in most feral habitats. In both feral and commensal populations, however, male aggressiveness promotes the large-scale dispersal of young, all of which are potential colonizers. Of the ten or so environmental factors known to influence reproduction in house mice, seven probably are of routine importance in natural populations: diurnal modulation by daily light:dark cycles; caloric intake; nutrition; extreme temperature; agonistic stimuli; socio-tactile cues; and priming pheromones. The last two factors named operate directly on the secretion of luteinizing hormone or prolactin; the others act at many points in the reproductive system. Reproduction in the house mouse seems divorced from photoperiodically induced seasonality; indeed, this species breeds well even in constant darkness. Seasonal breeding may or may not then occur, depending upon dietary considerations, with or without a secondary interaction with variation in ambient temperature. There is no evidence for a dependence upon secondary plant compounds. Some of the effects of priming pheromones that have been observed previously in laboratory mice probably play no meaningful role in wild populations. The remaining pheromonal phenomena can be conceptualized as a single cueing system that has three components: (a) urinary cues of socially dominant males can accelerate ovulation in females, adult or prepubertal; (b) female urinary cues may elevate pheromonal potency in adult males, thereby forming a feedback loop by which the females elicit their own ovulation; and (c) the male's action on prepubertal females can be blocked by urinary cues emanating from other females. When all of the above is viewed in toto, the reproductive biology of the house mouse seems uniquely suited to support ecological opportunism. The relatively few environmental inhibitors of reproduction in this species should enhance the ability of dispersing young to colonize an exceptionally wide variety of habitats and climates. This basic reproductive flexibility probably is complemented by genetic diversity among potential colonizers, genetic diversity which, in turn, stems from intra-population and regional selection. The pheromonal system would seem to promote successful colonization by allowing the avoidance of pregnancy before dispersal, while promoting rapid ovulation once a home is established and the probable success of pregnancy is assured. Pheromonal cueing also could be used to time ovulation in adult females during the opportunistic shifting of home ranges that is common in feral populations. In summary, this review seem to provide one physiological explanation for the near-global distribution of the house mouse.
2825807|Various aspects of genetic models of coevolution are reviewed and discussed. The emphasis is on the assumptions made in coevolutionary models and the questions addressed. In the first part of the review, general results from models of single species or of interacting species are summarized. In a number of cases, there are useful maximization and equilibration principles that can be applied to particular coevolutionary problems. Such principles can sometimes be used without making explicit genetic assumptions. The second part of the review summarizes various models of particular types of ecological interactions: generalized competition, character displacement, predator-prey and host-parasite interactions, and mutualism. When possible, the principles available from the general theory are applied. There is also some discussion of the role of different time scales of genetic and ecological change and of the role of assumptions concerning genetic variability in each species. The current emphasis in theoretical studies is on the equilibrium properties of panmictic species under constant conditions. Even under those restrictive conditions, a wide variety of results can be obtained, but it does not seem that there is a consistent effect of coevolution on community stability.
2825809|Definitions of vernacular names in herpetology that are available in current dictionaries of zoology and of herpetology are incomplete and hence are frequently a source of confusion to the beginning student, interested amateur, and professional herpetologist. To help fill this lexicographic hiatus, I have searched the literature for definitions that have been omitted from orthodox scientific dictionaries. These alternative definitions are quoted and presented in the spirit of fostering precise communication within the science of herpetology.
2664376|The accuracy of gene flow estimates is unknown in most natural populations because direct estimates of dispersal are often not possible. These estimates can be highly imprecise or even biased because population genetic structure reflects more than a simple balance between genetic drift and gene flow. Most of the models used to estimate gene flow also assume very simple patterns of movement. As a result, multiple interpretations of population structure involving contemporary gene flow, departures from equilibrium, and other factors are almost always possible. One way to isolate the relative contribution of gene flow to population genetic differentiation is to utilize comparative methods. Population genetic statistics such as F
2664375|Parasite-mediated sexual selection may arise as a consequence of 1) females avoiding mates with directly transmitted parasites, 2) females choosing less-parasitized males that provide parental care of superior quality, or 3) females choosing males with few parasites in order to obtain genes for parasite resistance in their offspring. Studies of specific host-parasite systems and comparative analyses have revealed both supportive and conflicting evidence for these hypotheses. A meta-analysis of the available evidence revealed a negative relationship between parasite load and the expression of male secondary sexual characters. Experimental studies yielded more strongly negative relationships than observations did, and the relationships were more strongly negative for ectoparasites than for endoparasites. There was no significant difference in the magnitude of the negative effect for species with and without male parental care, or between behavioral and morphological secondary sexual characters. There was a significant difference between studies based on host immune function and those based on parasite loads, with stronger effects for measures of immune function, suggesting that the many negative results from previous analyses of parasite-mediated sexual selection may be explained because relatively benign parasites were studied. The multivariate analyses demonstrating strong effect sizes of immune function in relation to the expression of secondary sexual characters, and for species with male parental care as compared to those without, suggest that parasite resistance may be a general determinant of parasite-mediated sexual selection.
2664720|Tithonus asked Aurora for eternal life, when he meant eternal youth. Modern gerontological research makes the same mistake in its preoccupation with death, as if it were a programmed event in an organism's life history. Gerontology ought instead to investigate senescence, the decreasing effectiveness of mechanisms by which adult organisms avoid death or loss of fitness. Such studies should measure rates of decline in a diversity of adaptations and compare them within and between individuals and relate these rates and their correlations to genetic and environmental factors. The death of a studied organism must necessarily end its usefulness in providing valuable data. It is of little scientific significance.
2664721|The 1890s and the first decades of the twentieth century saw a vigorous debate about the mechanisms of evolutionary change. On one side, August Weismann defended the selectionist hypothesis; on the other, Herbert Spencer defended neo-Lamarckian theory. Supporters of Spencer, notably the American paleontologist and evolutionary theorist Henry Fairfield Osborn, recognized that the questions raised by Weismann and Spencer could only be settled experimentally. They called for the application of experimental methods, and the establishment of a new institution for the purpose of confirming the inheritance of acquired characters. To a great extent, the experimental program championed by Osborn and others was implemented and, although it failed to reveal soft inheritance and was soon eclipsed by Mendelian and chromosomal genetics, it did make significant and lasting contributions to evolutionary biology. Thus the importance of methodological and institutional innovation and theoretical pluralism to the progress of science is illustrated and underscored.
2665093|The extensive, persistent ecological dominance of humans is unprecedented. We display a highly derived social adaptation involving uniquely extensive cooperation among nonclose kin. Further, humans possess adaptive capabilities, including language, high cognitive function, and technological virtuosity not previously seen on this planet. Moreover, this suite of properties emerged and was refined very rapidly on a geological time scale. These diverse features of humans present what is referred to as the "human uniqueness problem." A theoretical interpretation of these phenomena is one of the largest remaining challenges to the scientific enterprise. While many interpretations have been proposed-several containing important individual insights-none has yet proven robust or complete. A straightforward resolution of the human uniqueness problem is proposed. It is argued that coalitional enforcement is necessary and sufficient to allow extensive nonkin cooperation, leading to all major elements of human uniqueness. Coalitional enforcement arose uniquely in humans when the animals that founded the Homo clade acquired the ability to kill or injure conspecifics from a substantial distance. This resulted from the evolution of hominid virtuosity at accurate, high-momentum throwing and clubbing, previously supposed to be adaptations for hunting, predator defense or individual aggression. No previous animal could reliably kill or injure conspecifics remotely. This ability dramatically reduced the individual cost of punishing noncooperative behavior by allowing these costs to be distributed among multiple cooperators. The capacity for coalitional enforcement drove the evolution of a cooperative social adaptation stably and autocatalytically from the origin of incipient Homo about 2 million years ago through to the present moment-including socially supported, ultimately spectacular, refinements in weaponry and social monitoring, with attendant increases in efficiency of coalitional enforcement and thus in the extent of human cooperation. Its details rendered this evolutionary process very rapid. This theory is believed to be robust and relatively complete. For example, coalitional enforcement is necessary and sufficient to allow for the evolution of language in an ape. Further, given the likely functional organization of the ancestral vertebrate mind, the coalitional enforcement hypothesis predicts, in addition to genetic information, the emergence of a second stream of design information in Homo, susceptible to Darwinian selection. A novel source of design information has long been suspected on empirical and intuitive grounds to be responsible for the uniquely high level of human adaptive sophistication. The unprecedented cognitive power of human minds is also predicted by these implications of the theory. Lastly, the "cognitive explosion" associated with the relatively recent appearance of behaviorally modern humans is predicted by the theory, as is the increasing size of human political units. The coalitional enforcement hypothesis and its immediate implications now enable the formerly elusive unification of diverse fields of study, including human biology, psychology, linguistics, paleontology, archaeology, anthropology, history, and economics.
2665094|Altruistic behaviors seem anomalous from a traditional view of Darwinian natural selection, and evolutionary explanations for them have generated much discussion. The debate centers around four major explanations: classic individual-level selection, reciprocity and game theory, kin selection, and trait-group selection. The historical context and defining criteria of each model must be reviewed before its validity can be assessed. Of these proposed mechanisms, group selection historically has been the most controversial. Although the extent to which empirical data support group selection hypotheses is uncertain, there is evidence for group-level selection among avirulent virus strains and foraging ant queens. Researchers studying mammalian behavior, particularly primatologists, have largely dismissed models of group-level selection. Most discussion of altruism among primates has focused on differences in fitness among individuals within a single group, but students of altruistic behaviors exhibited by primates also need to investigate intergroup variation with respect to these behaviors. Various altruistic behaviors are likely to have evolved through different forms of selection, and each example of apparent altruism therefore needs to be evaluated separately.
2664622|Despite widespread interest in territorial behavior, the processes by which animals establish territories are still poorly understood. We present a new learning-based model of territory establishment for species in which individuals set up territories within large patches of spatially heterogeneous habitat. The model is based on the simple assumptions that individuals tend to return to areas in which they previously had rewarding experiences and, conversely, tend to avoid areas in which they previously engaged in costly aggressive interactions. The literature on learning and territorial establishment suggests that these assumptions are probably valid for many animals. Individual-based, spatially-explicit simulations of settlement behavior incorporating the assumptions of this model generate a number of phenomena comparable to those observed in territorial animals, including the formation of stable home ranges within large patches of uniform quality habitat, increases in territory size and home range exclusivity if settlers interact aggressively with one another, greater benefits of aggressive behavior if individuals settle at high density than if they settle at low density, higher success for residents when they compete with newcomers for the same space (the "prior residency advantage"), and the avoidance by newcomers of areas used by previous residents. Although the model needs further refinement to generate some phenomena observed in territorial species, our results suggest that the processes responsible for generating several basic components of territorial behavior may be simpler than is currently supposed.
2664621|Recent findings support the long-recognized principle that nutritive and toxic effects of an ingested material depend not only on its nature but very much on its quantity. The well known observation that essential nutrients can be toxic at high dosages suggests that the same reversal of effect may be true of many substances that could be beneficial but not essential at low dosages (the phenomenon of hormesis). This has been demonstrated for many well known toxins. We suggest a mathematical model that describes these dosage effects as an expected result of the evolution of human metabolic and dietary adaptations for maximizing benefits and minimizing costs of the ingestion or other intake of any substance. Evolved mechanisms for achieving benefits may be unrelated to those for reducing costs. These evolutionary considerations suggest important consequences demonstrable by experimental or epidemiological studies. They also suggest ways in which our evolved dietary adaptations may be currently maladaptive, and individual development of taste preferences poorly calibrated by early experience in modern environments. The apparent reality of hormesis raises the possibility of counterproductive effects of current dosage recommendations and limits for nutrients and pollutants. We propose that some conceptual and factual problems are urgently in need of resolution.
2825133|The insect fauna associated with Heliconia plants is one of the most extensively studied of all (non-cultivated) Neotropical insect-plant associations. Studies on Heliconia insect communities have centered on either the herbivorous insects that feed on young rolled leaves, or on those insects that live inside the water-filled floral bracts. I hypothesize that Heliconia floral morphology, in which flowers are protected in water-filled, cuplike bracts, evolved as a defense against flower-feeding and seed-eating insects. This small body of water has, however, attracted a varety of aquatic insects which are Heliconia-specific. Much of the research on Heliconia insect communities sheds light on more general hypotheses concerning the ecology and evolution of tropical insect communities. Heliconia research has pointed out the importance of plant biochemistry, plant phenology, and local plant distributions in determining the life history patterns, species diversity, and population densities of obligate insect associates. Studies on the leaf-feeding herbivores and the bract inhabitants indicate that neither intraspecific nor interspecific competition is a major structuring element in these communities. Parasitism, facilitation, and habitat age are more important than competition in structuring these insect communities. A clear succession can be followed among the insects in the Heliconia bracts. Insect species that are better adapted to water low in detritus are found in the youngest bracts, whereas insect species that use, or are tolerant of, high levels of detritus are found as the bracts age. Finally, biogeographyc patterns show that local accumulations of insect species in Heliconia inflorescences follow a power function similar to that which is used to describe the accumulation of species on islands. On a larger scale, moisture and number of Heliconia species in any location seem to be important in determining species richness among leaf-feeding insects, whereas floral morphology, bract size, and geographic location are important in determining the species composition of the insect communities in Heliconia inflorescences.
2825134|The logistic curve was introduced by Raymond Pearl and Lowell Reed in 1920 and was heavily promoted as a description of human and animal population growth. In subsequent years it underwent a barrage of criticism from statisticians, economists, and biologists, a barrage directed mostly against Pearl's claim that the logistic curve was a law of growth. Nevertheless, it emerged in the mid-1930's as a central model of experimental population biology, and in its various modifications has remained an important part of modern population ecology. The history of the logistic curve reveals that its acceptance was by no means straightforward: repeated promotion of the curve by Pearl and his connections to other scientists were both important in the establishment of its place as a tool of research. The people responsible for legitimizing the logistic curve - A. J. Lotka, G. F. Gause, G. Udny Yule, and Thomas Park - all had different degrees of direct contact with Pearl in the early years of its use, and these personal contacts facilitated the acceptance of the logistic curve despite the heawy criticisms. The history of the logistic curve reveals the complicated social processes which can underlie the development of scientific disciplines.
2826886|Despite a century of evolutionary theory, only in the last few decades have clearly defined procedures for inferring phylogenies been stated. For discrete characters whose ancestral states are known, the prescriptions of Henning are well defined, but they are applicable only when there is no incompatibility between different characters. This limitation has led to the elaboration of a number of methods for dealing with such incompatibilities. One category consists of the parsimony methods, which choose that phylogeny on which the fewest changes of character state need be assumed. Another category consists of the compatibility methods, which choose that phylogeny which is perfectly compatible with the largest number of characters, irrespective of how many changes need be assumed in other characters. Other approaches include the use of phenetic clustering algorithms and methods fitting trees to similarity or distance matrices. Each method has a different set of implicit assumptions concerning the biology of the characters and the information available from the data. If the methods are considered in a statistical framework as different estimators of an unknow quantity (the phylogeny), these asseumptions are more clearly seen. Standard statistical approaches, such as maximum likelihood, can be used to obtain methods whose properties are known and for which one can determine the amount of uncertainty in the resulting estimates of the phylogeny. Although existing statistical models are highly oversimplified and do not reflect the complexity of evolutionary processes, it is by viewing the problem as a statistical one that we can place all these methods in common fremework, within which their behavior and assumptions can be compared. It is essential that we not adopt a single methods as a universal panacea, but that an attempt be made to understand the biological assumptions and statistical behavior of each method.
2826887|Alloparental care and adoption of young, aparently altruistic and reproductively costly behaviors, have been reported in over 120 mammalian and 150 avian species. Members of these taxonomically and ecologically diverse species often share similar behavioral and sociecological strategies in parental care, and may practice strikingly convergent forms of allopareting, such as "babysitting" behavior. Individuals that care for alien young may acquire selective advantages associated with increased inclusive fitness, parental experience, reciprocal altruis, and exploitation of fostered young. In many cases, environmental constraints, such as scare breeding resources of food sources requiring cooperative foraging strategies, appear to influence the occurrence of allopareting and adoption. In addition, proximate factors incorporating "reproductive errors" may be involved in some instances of fostering, Often, several selective benefits, along with various environmental pressures or reproductives mistakes may collectively promote the evolution of alloparental care and adoption. Fostering behaviors have been reported especially often in animals characterized by one or more of the following reproductive or social features, most of which are typical of K-selected species: (1) production of single offspring; (2) prolonged or energetically intensive parental investment; (3) limited lifetime reproductve output; (4) smal groups with tight kinship bonds; (5) highly social or cooperative group structure; and (6) young that are raised in high-density breeding colonies.
2829551|Juvenile hormone (JH) is a developmental hormone of insects. It has become evident in recent years that JH is involved in the control of gene switching and that it exerts this control only during certain critical periods. Such JH-sensitive critical periods occur periodically during the life cycle of an insect. As a rule one or more critical periods exist during each pre-reproductive instar. The presence or absence of JH during any given critical period somehow causes the insect to "choose" between alternative developmental pathway. Using this model for the action of JH, we discuss the endocrine control of metamorphosis, phase determination in locusts and aphids, caste determination is social insects, and certain color polymorphisms.
2829552|The view that high social rank is associated with high levels of both copulatory behavior and the production of offspring is widespread in the study of animal social behavior. In order to demonstrate the validity of this hypothesis it is necessary first to resolve ambiguities in the concept of dominance and to assign ranks by means of valid procedures. Second, copulatory behavior must be properly sampled, measured, and related to rank. Finally, it must be demonstrated that rank and increased copulatory behavior actually lead to increased reproduction. Each step in this process entails conceptual and methodological difficulties. There have been many studies of rank and copulatory behavior, fewer of rank and differential reproduction, and very few of rank, copulatory behavior, and differential reproduction. The consistency of results obtained varies with taxon; results of particular consistency appear in studies of carnivores and ungulates. Both the concept of dominance and the validity of the hypothesis relating it to copulatory behavior and to differential reproduction appear viable for at least some species, although the body of data relating rank to both copulation and differential reproduction remains minimal.
2827464|Is inclusive fitness theory, popularly called "sociobiology," necessarily conservative or reactionary? While this criticism is usually focused on the extension of evolutionary reasoning to human behavior, it implies that contemporary biological theory is ideologically biased. Historical, logical, and empirical evidence shows, however, that models of natural selection based on reproductive success-particularly when redefined in terms of inclusive fitness-are not incompatible with scientific objectivity. This approach is a cost-benefit analysis of social behavior, akin to "rational actor" models in economics, game theory, and public-choice theory. Derived from the "social-contract" tradition in Western political philosophy, epitomized by such varied thinkers as Thrasymachus, Hobbes, and Rousseau, such a calculus of individual advantage has had as broad a range of ideological overtones as the contrasting "sociological" tradition of Aristotle, Marx, and Durkheim. Previous evolutionary explanations of human society have likewise suggested diverse political conclusions. Indeed, if inclusive-fitness models do have political implications, they could well challenge existing sociopolitical beliefs and institutions rather than support them.
2827463|Morphological, genetic, and hormonal stgudies of the process of vitellogenesis, whereby yolk is accumulated in the developing oocytes, have been going on for many years in Drosophila. Recently there has been a resurgence of interest in vitellogenesis, for it provides a model system for investigating how eukaryotic genes are regulated. The proteins found in the yolk are regulated in a tissue-specific, stage-specific and sex-limited fashion. Molecular studies have identified the major proteins concerned and their genes have been cloned. This has facilitated a new approach to how this fascinating process is controlled. In this review current understanding of the factors required for normal vitellogenesis in Drosophila is analyzed. The nature of the proteins themselves, their sites of synthesis, and the organization and characterization of the genes and transcripts that code for them are emphasized. The manner in which the expression of these genes is regulated by the insect hormones, ecdysone and juvenile hormone, is described and, finally, an analysis is made of how various mutants that disrupt vitellogenesis can contribute further to our understanding of vitellogenesis regulation in Drosophila.
3036683|Although spices have been important for centuries in food preparation throughout the world, patterns of spice use differ considerably among cultures and countries. What factors underlie these differences? Why are spices used at all? to investigate these questions, we quantified the frequency of use of 43 spices in the meat-based cuisines of the 36 countries for which we could locate traditional cookbooks. A total 4578 recipes from 93 cookbooks was analysed. We also compiled information on the temperature and precipitation in each country, the ranges of spice plants, and the antibacterial properties of each spice. These data were used to investigate the hypothesis that spices inhibit or kill food-spoilage microorganisms. In support of this is the fact that spice plant secondary compounds are powerful antimicrobial (i.e., antibacterial and antifungal) agents. As mean annual temperatures (an indicator of relative spoilage rates of unrefrigerated foods) increased, the proportion of recipes containing spices, number of spices per recipe, total number of spices used, and use of the most potent antibacterial spices all increased, both within and among countries. Likewise, the estimated fraction of bacterial species inhibited per recipe in each country was positively correlated with annual temperature. Several alternative hypotheses were considered-that spices provide macronutrients, disguise the taste and smell of spoiled foods, or increase perspiration and thus evaporative cooling; it also is conceivable that spice use provides no benefits. However, none of these four alternatives was well supported by our data. The proximate reason spices are used obviously is to enhance food palatability. But the ultimate reason is most likely that spices help cleanse foods of pathogens and thereby contribute to the health, longevity and reproductive success of people who find their flavors enjoyable.
3037471|Signals used to attract mates are often conspicuous to predators and parasites, and their evolution via sexual selection is expected to be opposed by viability selection. Many secondary sexual traits may represent a compromise between attractiveness and avoidance of detection. Although such signal exploitation appears to be widespread, most examples come from species that use acoustic or olfactory mating signals, and relatively few cases of visual signal exploitation can be substantiated. Because males are usually the signaling sex, they are more at risk from predators or parasitoids that locate prey or hosts by sexual signals; this differential selection on the two sexes can affect the intensity of sexual selection on male ornamental traits. The notable exception to male signaling and female attraction occurs in pheromone-producing insects, particularly lepidopterans, which show an opposite pattern of female odor production. Exploitation of such sex pheromones is relatively rare. We discuss reasons for the reversal in sex roles in these species and its implications for signal exploitation. Changes in signals that appear to be adaptations to avoid predation include the use of different signal modalities, changes in signaling behavior, loss of signals, and alteration of signal characteristics such as pitch. Selection pressure from signal exploiters could lead to the production of a novel signal and thus facilitate speciation. Relatively little work has been done on adaptations on the part of the exploiting species, but such adaptations could indirectly influence the mating system of the predator or parasitoid. Signal exploitation is also expected to be a fruitful source of examples of coevolution. Finally, plants emit attractants analogous to secondary sex characters in animals, and may also be vulnerable to signal exploitation.
3037472|Genetic tumors that occur in intraspecific and interspecific hybrids of certain plant genera, in particular Nicotiana, are reviewed. Tumors occur on certain interspecific hybrids, as well as on parasexual hybrids in Nicotiana, substantiating the genetic control of tumor formation. The morphology, histology, fine structure, cytology and genetic control of tumors are discussed. The effect of envornmental factors, including radiation, are considered in relation to tumor expression, and the induction of mutations from tumor to nontumor state. The roles of phytohormones, cytokinins, and auxins are discussed with respect to habituation and growth autonomy. The relevance of cellular T-DNA sequences of bacterial (Agrobacterium) origin in certain Nicotiana species to tumor formation, and the molecular biology of genetic tumors in Nicotiana, are examined. The origin of tumors and the regulation of genetic components involved in genetic tumors are considered in the framework of current genetic models of the initiation and development of genetic tumors.
3036558|Although adaptive explanations for menstruation go back at least twenty-five hundred years, in the last decade two new hypotheses have been advanced. The first suggests that menstruation evolved to cleanse the uterus of pathogens introduced by sperm, and the second argues that the function of endometrial regression (with the associated menstruation in humans) is to save energy by getting rid of tissue, rather than maintaining it in the absence of an available blastocyst. Both these suggestions may be questioned on the grounds that they do not take into account the physiology of the reproductive processes involved. Menstruation is not an independent physiological process and is unlikely to have been selected for independently of the evolutionary events that led to it. Furthermore, most primitive menstruating animals would have menstruated infrequently, and many may have reproduced or died without ever menstruating. In order to provide a context for understanding how menstruation may have come about, the evolution of the female vertebrate reproductive tract is briefly reviewed. In later stages, the coevolution of the embryo and uterus resulted in an intimate association between the trophoblast and the uterine blood vessels. As the embryo became more invasive, the uterus responded with increased cellular growth and differentiation of the endometrium to accommodate it. This reached its peak in mammals (such as rodents and humans), where the embryo passes through the epithelium into the endometrial stroma, which responds with differentiation of cells and blood vessels. Progesterone, secreted after ovulation, plays a crucial role in preparation for pregnancy. In addition to its well-known effects on the uterus, progesterone may be important in suppressing the inflamatory reaction that would be expected in response to the presence of a foreign body, such as an embryo. It is also suggested that vascular and cellular differentiation of the endometrial stroma has evolved by adaptation of the inflamatory (granulation tissue) reaction. When progesterone levels fall at the end of the cycle, there is tissue breakdown and bleeding. The uterus then reforms for the next ovulatory cycle. It is shown that the female reproductive tract has multiple functions that must occur in sequence. The coevolution of the embryo and maternal tract thus led to the close contact of two genetically different tissues, and problems such as the inflammatory reaction had to be overcome. Menstruation is a necessary consequence of these evolutionary changes, and needed no adaptive value in order to evolve.
3036557|Methods of inferring phylogenetic relationships have received an enormous amount of attention in recent years. One missing component in much of this work concerns the analysis of the data being used. Most techniques of phylogenetic inference, including parsimony, assume the independence of characters, and the assigment of equal weights to characters assumes that they have an equal probability of change. Although systematics using molecular data have begun to deal with issues of character correlation and weighting, they are generally avoided by those using morphological data. Systematists have paid relatively little attention to morphological characters that may be correlated for reassons other than commonality of descent. We review some of the reasons that the assumption of independence of characters may be violated for morphological features, and suggest ways in which detailed analysis of the phenotype may lead to both a priori and a posteriori rationales for weighting of morphological characters. Just at it seems prudent to explore phylogenetic hypotheses that are less than the most parsimonious, systematics would be well served if researchers more fully explored the causes and consequences of character correlations that may exist in morphological data sets. Our two examples, the evolution of sexual dimorphism in voiceless frogs and the role of heterochrony in the evolution of chaenopsid fishes, illustrate that character weighting provides potential insights into both systematic relationships and the evolution of character complexes.
3036917|Precopulatory mate guarding in crustaceans is a common male mating strategy when female receptivity for copulation is short. The decision to start guarding is not made by only males, however; it is commonly found that females resist the guarding attempts of males. Furthermore, experimental data show that males aim for longer guarding durations than females allow. Shorter guarding durations may be favored by females because of a number of potential costs of guarding. Precopulatory guarding therefore presents a model case of intersexual conflict where the fitness-maximizing strategies of males and females differ. When the interests of the sexes are in conflict, the actual guarding duration may be a compromise between male and female optima, resulting from the adjustment of contest to the fitness gains of winning and to the fighting abilities of the parties. Intersexual conflicts are also likely to generate sexual selection on male and female traits related to the outcome of the contests.
3036918|Animal welfare is a topic often thought to reside outside mainstream biology. The complexity of the methods used to assess welfare (such as health, physiology, immunological state, and behavior) require an understanding of a wide range of biological phenomena. Furthermore, the "welfare" of an animal provides a framework in which a diversity of its responses can be understood as fitness-enhancing mechanisms. Different methods for assessing animal welfare are discussed, with particular emphasis on the role of an animal's own choices and reinforcement mechanisms. No part of biology is as yet able to explain consciousness, but by confronting the possibility that nonhuman animals have conscious experiences of suffering, animal welfare studies force a consideration of even this hardest problem of all biological phenomena in a particularly direct and evolutionary way.
2817929|The fossil record and information about contemporary forms provide evidence that the evolutionary pattern of bison cannot be interpreted as either a unidirectional decrease in horn size or as a series of successive invasions to the New World from the Old. Rather, some species have persisted and remained relatively unchanged for long periods of time, while elsewhere other contemporaneous species were changing quite rapidly. Although the trends in the evolution of bison horn size have been remarkably regular, major reversals have taken place. Bison arose in Eurasia and have had a much longer history there than is North America. In spite of this longer history in the Old World, bison have undergone greater evolutionary changes in North America. This can be explained by a different mode and intensity of competition in the New World. The major points presented are the following: (1) The giant-horned B. latifrons was a New World product. (2) B. priscus (= B. crassicornus) appeared early as a holarctic northern species and remained in that niche until the late Wisconsin (Wurm). (3) Most of the other bison species in the late Pleistocene were derived indirectly or directly from this widespread northern species. (4) Middle and Late Pleistocene bison can be place into four species: B. priscus, which can be dated at least as far back as early mid-Pleistocene; B. latifrons, which extends back at least to late Illonoian (Riss) time (it is possible that B. latifrons gave rise to B. antiquus; if so the species B. alleni should be maintained); B. antiquus, which originated during the early to middle part of the Wisconsin (Wurm) glaciation; and B. bison, which was a late Wisconsin product. (5) B. latifrons became extinct, at least over most of its range, in pre-Wisconsin time. B. priscus and B. antiquus became extinct in the late Wisconsin, and B. bison still exists in relict populations. (6) Two or more species of bison have not occurred sympatrically for extended periods of time. (7) Neither the "orthogenetic" nor the "wave" theory adequately accounts for the evolution of bison in North America; rather, the fossils can only be explained by a combination of invasions from Siberia and evolutionary changes that occurred in the new environment.
2817930|Hairs are epidermal derivatives, the type, structure, and arrangement of which are related to the role of the mammalian pelage. Hair follicles probably evolved from amphibian apidermal excrescences which became modified into sensory pits of the reptilelike ancestors of mammals. Pelage affords insulation, is sensitive to external stimuli, may be modified for defense or display, assists in buoyancy and streamlining in water, and aids concealment on land. The basic grouping of hair follicles by threes (trio group) appears almost to have been lost in the Pinnipedia, in which other anatomical adaptations to an aquatic habit include flattened guard hairs, loss of erector (arrector pili) muscles and modified cutaneous glands. Periodic growth and replacement of the pelage is essential to survival. The pelage cycle is closely related to the annual cycle with respect to seasonal requirements dictated by the environment, such as climate and life processes, particularly reproduction. Different pelages occur at different stages of the life history and also according to varying seasonal demands, especially in arctic and subarctic terrestrial species. Hair growth and molting are established before sexual maturity,or even prenatally, and are inherent features in the biology of mammals. Nevertheless, pelage cycles are coordinated with respect to season (and hence the annual cycle) by the direct proximate stimulus of light acting through neuro-endocrine pathways. Pelage growth may also be regulated directly by nutritional status and, to some extent, indirectly by temperature and behavior. The pelage cycle must be regarded from the point of view of the whole process of follicular activity and fiber production, rather than simply the externally visible molt, if that unique mammalian characteristic, hair, is to be understood in its true biological perspective.
2821009|The rodents have been generally regarded as basically herbivorous animals. A review of the literature of the natural history of the feeding habits of rodents shows many species in all major lines of rodent evolution to be, to a surprising degree, carnivorous, piscivorous, or insectivorous. It is argued, therefore, that the primitive adaptation of the rodent mandibulo-dental apparatus was for an omnivorous diet rather than a herbivorous one, and that, indeed, the versatility of the feeding adaptation was the primary factor in the highly successful adaptive radiation in the order. A functional-morphological study of the rodent gnawing adaptation supports the argument.
2821007|Neuroid conduction, as here defined, refers to the propagation of electrical events in the membranes of non-nervous, nonmuscular cells. Examples from protistants, plants, and animals are described. In the dinoflagellate Noctiluca, propagated membrane depolarizations accompany the spread of the luminescent response, and local electrical changes are associated with tentacle movement. The ability of Noctiluca to conduct is attributable to its peculiar geometry, in which much of the cytoplasm is confined to a thin peripheral layer surrounding the flotation vacuole, a condition that permits local current flow to develop. Fresh-water algae of the family Characeae show propagated action potentials in which chloride efflux is the major event responsible for electrogenesis. Chloride spikes are presumed to be an adaptation to fresh water, following Grundfest (1966c). Among the higher plants, Dionaea and Mimosa provide examples of neuroid conduction. The former also possess trigger cells which function in an analagous way to certain animal receptors. In Mimosa there is evidence that the cells responsible for conduction of electrical events are located in the vascular bundles and that propagation requires simultaneous activation of a number of cells lying parallel in the bundles, as in mammalian smooth muscle. In both cases transmission from cell to cell is thought to be electrical via low-resistance pathways. In hydromedusae and siphonophores neuroid conduction occurs in the exumbrellar ectoderm and subumbrellar endoderm, the two layers being linked as a transmission pathway for excitation going to ectodermal smooth muscle systems. The "crumpling" behavior of medusae is transmitted by this system, but nervous components may be involved in the generation of the full response. Reverse locomotion in physonectid siphonophores (e.g., Nanomia) involves activation of neuroid pathways. In the siphonophore Hippopodius, neuroid conduction in the exumbrella is coupled to luminescent and blanching reactions. Neuroid conduction in all these forms provides a rapid and efficient method of information transfer. It is typically associated with the spread of protective and locomotory responses and is general rather than local in effect. The more complex and local responses are believed to be organized by the nervous system. In ctenophores, recent work suggests that propagation of the ciliary beat between cells of the comb plates is neuroid, and that inhibition of ciliary activity is nervous. Certain cells in the ciliated grooves seem to represent neurons in process of evolution from non-nervous, ciliated cells. In the pluteus larva of an echinoderm, coordination of ciliary reversal is associated with electrical signals apparently of non-nervous origin. In another larval form, that of the toad Xenopus, neuroid conduction has been demonstrated in the skin at a stage before the nerve supply reaches the skin, giving the tadpole a precocious capacity for response. As for the evolution of conduction, conducting tissues probably arose independently in many lines of evolution. Frequently the conducting tissue would have evolved from an epithelium in which the cells were connected by pathways serving for metabolic communication, the existence of these junctions predisposing the tissue for electrical transmission of propagated depolarizations. The effective conducting units in such tissues would have been groups of electrically coupled cells, rather than individual cells as such. In animals, nerve and muscle tissues are considered to have arisen from primitive myoepithelial sheets in which transmission occurred through low-resistance intercellular pathways. With the need for increased specificity in the conduction and response system, the original tight coupling between the cells would be replaced by specialized synapses. While electronic synapses have the potential to perform many integrative functions of the nervous system, chemical synapses have in general prevailed.
2821008|One method of studying the effects of time as a soil-forming factor is to recognize and investigate a chronosequence, wherein four out of five soil-forming factors are constant or vary ineffectively. Thus, observed differences between soils of different ages forming a sequence are deemed to be the result of the lapse of varying intervals of time since the initiation of soil formation. In this paper theoretical considerations underlying the chronosequence concept are examined and soil development is discussed. Several non-strict chronosequences are reviewed, and a number of chronosequence studies are examined. The significance of such studies is assessed, and general desiderata for future investigations set out.
2821323|Several research areas, notably those of psychology, physiology, and ethology, are reviewed in order to construct an interdisciplinary picture of problems and concepts pertaining to neurobehavioral development. Genetic factors, pre- and post-natal experiences and environmental influences which may affect ontogeny and modify the behavioral phenotype are reviewed. Development is considered as a series or continuum of genotype-environment interactions, and the effects of self-stimulation, experiential deprivation, enrichment, and "handling" are discussed. Ontogenetic phenomena, such as heterochronous patterning, induction and canalization, socialization, exploration and motivation, and the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny of behavior are detailed to exposes the dynamic and intrinsic complexities of neurobehavioral development and of the genotype-environment interaction.
2821324|It has long been known that meristic characters, and especially the number of vertebrae, in many fishes are affected by environmental factors such as temperature, salinity, oxygen concentration, and light during early development. The temperature response curve of vertebral number for offspring from a single mating is often Ushaped, but may be inversely linear or some other shape. Less is known about response to other variables, but there is generally a clear trend within the tolerance range. The genotype of a fish significantly affects the response curve of vetebral number to environmental factors. A few studies have shown that tetrapod meristic characters are also sesitive to temperature and light. Earlier reviews and recent experiments papers are cited d analyzed to show that these phenomena can now be investigated experimentally. Metabolic rate has been correlated with vertebral number and the possible implications of this are discussed. Theories accounting for the formation of somites are examined. The customary methods of measuring development are regarded as inexact and unsuitable for explanation of the phenomena discussed here. Two interesting evolutionary implications are discussed: teh absence of genetic assimilation of vertebral number, and the apparent absence of selection for a single specific vertebral number in each population.
2822018|According to modern astronomy, planetary systems and the conditions suitable for life are considered to be of common occurrence in the universe. The Oparin-Haldane hypothesis postulates the prebiotic synthesis of organic compounds as a necessary preamble to the origin of life on Earth. Experimental work in many laboratories has produced considerable evidence in support of this idea. It is therefore reasonable to suppose that a similar sequence of events may have taken place elsewhere in the universe. In our search for life beyond the Earth, the planet Mars is of special interest. Its physical parameters, though severe, do not exclude the possibility that microorganisms may exist on that planet. Several experiments are being planned for the 1975 opposition of Mars. The results of such investigations may have a profound effect on our concepts of the nature of life itself.
2822019|Recent developments in techniques of analyzing plant communities and resultant changes in the concept of community have considerable relevance for theoretical and experimental studies of competition and adaptation of plants in communities-i.e., niche segregation. A knowledge of the community, its organization, and the behavior, of populations in the context of a variable community are important for an adequate understanding of the biology of the population. Experimental studies with individual populations or simple combinations of species are effective for elucidating elementary processes within the community; but the problems of extrapolating from these to the whole community are formidable if not insurmountable. Single-species studies or paired-species studies are not likely to solve the problems of distribution of species in the field, the differentiation of niches, the distribution of dominance-diversity relations, or the nature of community organization and succession. Studies at the community level are complementary to, and necessary for, the effective implementation of studies at the population level, and increased collaboration is therefore essential. Extensive studies of plant competition, which leave, and raise, many questions concerning the process of competition in the community and its role in developing and maintaining the patterns of species relations seen in ordination studies, are reviewed.
QRB2532|Measurementthe assignment of numbers to attributes of the natural worldis central to all scientific inference. Measurement theory concerns the relationship between measurements and reality; its goal is ensuring that inferences about measurements reflect the underlying reality we intend to represent. The key principle of measurement theory is that theoretical context, the rationale for collecting measurements, is essential to defining appropriate measurements and interpreting their values. Theoretical context determines the scale type of measurements and which transformations of those measurements can be made without compromising their meaningfulness. Despite this central role, measurement theory is almost unknown in biology, and its principles are frequently violated. In this review, we present the basic ideas of measurement theory and show how it applies to theoretical as well as empirical work. We then consider examples of empirical and theoretical evolutionary studies whose meaningfulness have been compromised by violations of measurement-theoretic principles. Common errors include not paying attention to theoretical context, inappropriate transformations of data, and inadequate reporting of units, effect sizes, or estimation error. The frequency of such violations reveals the importance of raising awareness of measurement theory among biologists.
QRB3161|Multiple sclerosis is a complex neurodegenerative disease, thought to arise through autoimmunity against antigens of the central nervous system. The autoimmunity hypothesis fails to explain why genetic and environmental risk factors linked to the disease in one population tend to be unimportant in other populations. Despite great advances in documenting the cell and molecular mechanisms underlying MS pathophysiology, the autoimmunity framework has also been unable to develop a comprehensive explanation of the etiology of the disease. I propose a new framework for understanding MS as a dysfunction of the metabolism of lipids. Specifically, the homeostasis of lipid metabolism collapses during acute-phase inflammatory response triggered by a pathogen, trauma, or stress, starting a feedback loop of increased oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and proliferation of cytoxic foam cells that cross the blood brain barrier and both catabolize myelin and prevent remyelination. Understanding MS as a chronic metabolic disorder illuminates four aspects of disease onset and progression: 1) its pathophysiology; 2) genetic susceptibility; 3) environmental and pathogen triggers; and 4) the skewed sex ratio of patients. It also suggests new avenues for treatment.
QRB2808|Ernst Mayr said that one of Darwin's greatest contributions was to show scholars the way to population thinking, and to help them discard a mindset of typological thinking. Population thinking rejects a focus on a central representative type, and emphasizes the variation among individuals. However, Mayr's choice of terms has led to confusion, particularly among biologists who study natural populations. Both population thinking and the concept of a biological population were inspired by Darwin, and from Darwin the chain for both concepts runs through Francis Galton who introduced the statistical usage of population that appears in Mayr's population thinking. It was Galton's population that was modified by geneticists and biometricians in the early 20th century to refer to an interbreeding and evolving community of organisms. Under this meaning, a population is a biological entity and so paradoxically population thinking, which emphasizes variation at the expense of dwelling on entities, is usually not about populations. Mayr did not address the potential for misunderstanding, but for him the important part of the population concept was that the organisms within a population were variable, and so he probably thought there should not be confusion between population thinking and the concept of a population.
QRB2874|Computational systems are useful in neuroscience in many ways. For instance, they may be used to construct maps of brain structure and activation, or to describe brain processes mathematically. Furthermore, they inspired a powerful theory of brain function, in which the brain is viewed as a system characterized by intrinsic computational activities or as a computational information processor. Although many neuroscientists believe that neural systems really perform computations, some are more cautious about computationalism or reject it. Thus, does the brain really compute? Answering this question requires getting clear on a definition of computation that is able to draw a line between physical systems that compute and systems that do not, so that we can discern on which side of the line the brain (or parts of it) could fall. In order to shed some light on the role of computational processes in brain function, available neurobiological data will be summarized from the standpoint of a recently proposed taxonomy of notions of computation, with the aim of identifying which brain processes can be considered computational. The emerging picture shows the brain as a very peculiar system, in which genuine computational features act in concert with noncomputational dynamical processes, leading to continuous self-organization and remodeling under the action of external stimuli from the environment and from the rest of the organism.
QRB2565|Geophagy has been hypothesized to be an adaptive behavior, either as a means to allay nutrient deficiency or to protect against ingested pathogens and toxins. Others have proposed that geophagy is non-adaptive, occurring either to allay hunger or as an epiphenomenon of nutrient deficiencies. This paper evaluates these hypotheses using 482 published cultural-level accounts of human geophagy and 330 accounts of geophagy among 297 species of mammals, birds, and reptiles. Information was extracted from reports of human geophagy to permit statistical analysis; reports of non-human geophagy were tabulated. Human geophagy did not parallel changes in nutrient requirements, occurred most frequently among children and pregnant women and in tropical areas (where pathogen densities are highest), and was associated with ingestion of toxic substances and gastrointestinal distress. Earth ingested by humans was craved and carefully selected and prepared; it had high clay content, but few bioavailable mineral nutrients. In primates, geophagy was associated with both protection from toxins and obtaining nutrients, whereas in other vertebrates it was associated mainly with obtaining nutrients. Our results indicate that human geophagy is best explained as providing protection from dietary chemicals, parasites, and pathogens, whereas animal geophagy may involve both micronutrient acquisition and protection.
QRB2675|A major goal of research in ecology and evolution is to explain why species richness varies across habitats, regions, and clades. Recent reviews have argued that species richness patterns among regions and clades may be explained by ecological limits on diversity over time, which are said to offer an alternative explanation to those invoking speciation and extinction (diversification) and time. Further, it has been proposed that this hypothesis is best supported by failure to find a positive relationship between time (e.g., clade age) and species richness. Here, I critically review the evidence for these claims, and propose how we might better study the ecological and evolutionary origins of species richness patterns. In fact, ecological limits can only influence species richness in clades by influencing speciation and extinction, and so this new alternative paradigm is simply one facet of the traditional idea that ecology influences diversification. The only direct evidence for strict ecological limits on richness (i.e., constant diversity over time) is from the fossil record, but many studies cited as supporting this pattern do not, and there is evidence for increasing richness over time. Negative evidence for a relationship between clade age and richness among extant clades is not positive evidence for constant diversity over time, and many recent analyses finding no age-diversity relationship were biased to reach this conclusion. More comprehensive analyses strongly support a positive age-richness relationship. There is abundant evidence that both time and ecological influences on diversification rates are important drivers of both large-scale and small-scale species richness patterns. The major challenge for future studies is to understand the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms underpinning the relationships between time, dispersal, diversification, and species richness patterns.
QRB2654|Sex determination is typically classified as either genotypic or environmental. However, this dichotomy obscures the developmental origin and evolutionary modification of determinants of sex, and therefore hinders an understanding of the processes that generates diversity in sex-determining systems. Recent research on reptiles and fish emphasizes that sex determination is a multifactorial regulatory process that is best understood as a threshold dichotomy rather than as the result of genetically inherited triggers of development. Here we critically assess the relationship between the developmental origin of sex-determining factors and evolutionary transitions in sex-determining systems. Our perspective emphasizes the importance of both genetic and nongenetic causes in evolution of sex determination and may help to generate predictions with respect to the evolutionary patterns of sex-determining systems and the underlying diversity of developmental and genetic regulatory networks.
QRB2771|Selection has led to the evolution of a variety of different mating strategies, each adapted to different competitive challenges. But what happens if the competitive challenges depend on the social environment? Here we discuss and review examples of socially cued anticipatory plasticity: irreversible developmental tactics in which resource allocation during the juvenile stage is altered to develop an appropriate phenotype for the competitive or mate choice environment that an individual encounters when mature. There are numerous theoretical and empirical examinations of the role of the social environment on the strength and direction of selection. However, only a handful of empirical studies examine how the social environment affects juvenile allocation and whether such tactics are adaptive. The goal of this review is to synthesize current knowledge about socially cued anticipatory plasticity, including the sensory modalities that individuals use to predict the adult competitive and mating environment. We then outline the various factors that are necessary for the evolution of socially cued anticipatory plasticity and discuss how this can affect phenotypic evolution. We conclude by suggesting some directions that future studies should take in order to understand how social variation can alter selection and the evolution of development.
3037829|Several evolutionary processes influence virulence, the amount of damage a parasite causes to its host. For example, parasites are favored to exploit their hosts prudently to prolong infection and avoid killing the host. Parasites also need to use some host resources to reproduce and transmit infections to new hosts. Thus parasites face a tradeoff between prudent exploitation and rapid reproduction -a life history tradeoff between logevity and fecundity. Other tradeoffs among components of parasite fitness also influence virulence. For example, competition among parasite genotypes favors rapid growth to achieve greater relative success within the host. Rapid growth may, however, lower the total productivity of the local group by overexploiting the host, which is a potentially renewable food suply. This is a problem of kin selection and group selection. I summarize models of parasite virulence with the theoretical tools of life history analysis, kin selection, and epidemiology. I then apply the theory to recent empirical studies and models of virulence. These applications, to nematodes, to the extreme virulence of hospital epidemics, and to bacterial meningitis, show the power of simple life history theory to highlight interesting questions and to provide a rich array of hypotheses. These examples also show the kinds of conceptual mistakes that commonly arise when only a few components of parasite fitness are analysed in isolation. The last part of the article connects standard models of parasite virulence to diverse topics, such as the virulence of bacterial plasmids, the evolution of genomes, and the processes that influence conflict and cooperation among the earliest replicators near the origin of life.
3037832|Philosophers of science have claimed that the position of biology among the sciences is the most prominent and controversial issue of the philosophy of biology. Some authors consider biology merely a "province" of physics and reducible to physics, others uphold the autonomy of biology, while still others have decided that biology lacks the rigor to justify being considered a genuine science. In my own analysis of this problem. I have concluded that the science of biology has all the attributes of a genuine science, as well as a number of other characteristics restricted to biology. These characteristics are listed and discussed. They justify ranking biology as an autonomous science, just as autonomous as physics and many other sciences.
3037828|Within a population there are frequently several discrete morphs. While in some cases, particularly color polymorphisms, this variation can be explained by simple Mendelian modes of inheritance, in many cases the evidence suggests a polygenic pattern of inheritance. The threshold model of quantitative genetics, in which discrete morphs are determined by some underlying continuously distributed trait and a threshold(s) of expression, is applied appropriately in these cases. The discrete morphs exhibited in cyclomorphosis, pedomorphosis, pedogenesis, "protective" dimorphisms, trophic dimorphisms, wing dimorphism, and mating strategies can all be analyzed by using this model. Analyses of a wide range of different types of threshold traits show that there is typically a large additive genetic component, but that there is also strong environmental induction. A review of studies shows that no morph has a universally higher fitness, but that there is a tradeoff, with the relative fitnesses of two morphs being contingent upon environmental conditions. For example, exuberant structures that serve to protect organisms from predators reduce other components of fitness, such as development time and fecundity. Environmental induction is an adaptive norm of reaction, in that cues of current or future conditions are used to increase the probability that the morph produced is that which has the highest fitness under the expected conditions. Most models for the evolution of threshold traits have focused on the phenotype and have not addressed the crucial question of what maintains genetic variation, and hence permits continued evolutionary change. Phenotypic models show that noninducible polymorphic variation cannot be maintained by spatial variation alone, but can be favored in an environment that is temporally variable. Multiple phenotypes may evolve in a spatially variable environment if there are cues that allow the organism to assess the type of patch in which it is developing; thus spatial variation is expected to lead to the evolution of inducible phenotypes. Considerable genetic variation can be maintained by mutation, even in the face of strong directional selection. Frequency-dependent selection, shown to play an important role in the maintenance of phenotypic variation, may also be significant in the maintenance of genetic variation.
3037026|Since 1813, when Crampton first described the ciliary muscle of the avian eye, there has been little agreement on how birds are able to change the focus of their eyes. Numerous later studies on the eyes of a variety of bird species contradicted earlier findings or proposed new accommodative mechanisms. The resulting confusion persists today, and a number of significant works on the avian eye perpetuate many of the myths developed during the 1800s. There is little consensus on avian accommodation; the early literature contains many accurate descriptions of the mechanisms, along with elegant experimental evidence to support them. Much of the early literature, however, is in German and has remained obscure. Further, among the mechanistic descriptions of avian accommodation are many that are incorrect. The current confusion can be attributed in part to the fact that some birds have both corneal and lenticular accommodation. It is unclear to what extent differential bird species employ both mechanisms, or depend on one mechanism or the other. These facts, together with the diversity of bird species, their range of visual requirements, and the numerous anatomical differences in their eyes, make it impossible to describe a single avian mechanism of accommodation. Our own experience in studying accommodation in the chick eye has led us to review the historical literature in an attempt to provide a new foundation for future studies on visual accommodation in birds. While in relation to the anatomical arrangements [of the bird eye], these have led our knowledge pretty much to a conclusion... There is among all these works no real difference of opinion. However, in terms of the accommodative mechanism of the bird eye, at the present time there are many different views of what is going on. Here the circumstances are very similar to what happened a few decades ago in the study of accommodation generally, but particularly with humans, when Helmholtz made the remark, "There is no other portion of physiological optics in which one finds so many differing and contradictory ideas as in the accommodation of the eye, where we have only recently actually made observations on what previously was left to the play of hypotheses" (Beer 1893:193).
3037027|Winter is energetically demanding. Physiological and behavior adaptations have evolved among nontropical animals to cope with winter because thermoregulatory demands increase when food availability decreases. Seasonal breeding is central within the suite of winter adaptations among small animals. Presumably, reproductive inhibition during winter conserves energy at a time when the odds of producing viable young are low. In addition to the well-studied seasonal cycles of mating and birth, there are also significant seasonal cycles of illness and death among many populations of mammals and birds in the field. Challenging winter conditions, such as low ambient temperatures and decreased food availability, can directly induce death via hypothermia, starvation, or shock. In some cases, survival in demanding winter conditions puts individuals under great physiological stress, defined here as an adaptive process that results in elevated blood levels of glucocorticoids. The stress of coping with energetically demanding conditions can also indirectly cause illness and death by compromising immune function. Presumably, the increased blood concentrations of adrenocortical steroids in response to winter stressors compromise immune function and accelerate catabolic mechanisms in the field, although the physiological effects of elevated glucocorticoids induced by artificial stressors have been investigated primarily in the laboratory. However, recurrent environmental stressors could reduce survival if they evoke persistent glucocorticoid secretion. The working hypothesis of this article is that mechanisms have evolved in some animals to cambat seasonal stress-induced immunocompromise as a temporal adaptation to promote survival. Furthermore, we hypothesize that mechanisms have evolved that allow individuals to anticipate periods of immunologically challenging conditions, and to cope with these seasonal health-threatening conditions. The primary environmental cue that permits physiological anticipation of season is the daily photoperiod; however, other environmental factors may interact with photoperiod to affect immune function and disease processes. The evidence for seasonal fluctuations in lymphatic organ size, structure, immune function, and disease processes, and their possible interactions with recurrent environmental stressor, is reviewed. Seasonal peaks of lymphatic organ size and structure generally occur in late autumn or early winter and seasonal minima are oberved prior to the onset of breeding. Although many of the field data suggest that immune function and disease processes are also enhanced during the winter, the opposite seasonal pattern is also observed in some studies. We propose that compromised immune function may be observed in some populations during particularly harsh winters when stressors override the enhancement of immune function evoked by short day lenghts. Because so many factors covary in field studies, assessment of our proposal that photoperiod mediates seasonal changes in immune function requires laboratory studies in which only photoperiod is varied. A review of the effects of photoperiod on immune function in laboratory studies reveals that exposure to short day lengths enhances immune function in every species examined. Short day exposure in small mammals causes reproductive inhibition and concomitant reduction in plasma levels of prolactin and steroid hormones, as well as alterations in the temporal pattern of pineal melatonin secretion. These hormones effect immune function, and influence the development of opportunistic disease, including cancer; however, it appears that either prolactin or melatonin secretion is responsible for mediating the effects of photoperiod on immune function. Taken together, day length appears to affect immune function in many species, including animals that typically do not exhibit reproductive responsiveness to day length. These data could have a major impact on understanding the etiology and progression of diseases in humans and nonhuman animals. The clinical significance of these data is also considered.
3035647|For more than 200 years, ciliated protozoa have been identified and allocated Species names largely on the basis of the rich morphological variety they present. We have examined the species richness of all free-living ciliate genera, described historical trends in the descriptions of new species, and estimated the number of species currently known. We have quantified the value of taxonomic revisions, and conclude that the number of known, extant free-living species is close to 3000. We have investigated the concept of "species" and the meaning of "biodiversity" in relation to ciliates, and conclude that the bilogical species concept is neither appropriate nor practicable. Insofar as ciliate morphology is closely correlated with the function of the organism in nature, the morphospecies concept is as valid as any, and probably more pragmatic than any other. Thus, when speaking of "species diversity," or the "biodiversity" of ciliates, we refer to diversity of form and function. The majority of ciliate species in the more frequently studied habitats have probably already been discovered, but an accurate picture of ciliate diversity on a global scale will require substantial taxonomic revision of many long-established and crowded genera, together with the investigation and description of new forms from previously unexplored habitats.
3035648|Like mammals, Lepidoptera possess female-specific sex chromatin. In a compilation of new and published data, 81% 238 investigated Lepidoptera species display one or more heterochromatin bodies in female somatic interphase cells, but not in male cells. In contrast with the similar phenomenon in mammals, this sex-specific heterochromatin does not function as a dosage compensation mechanism. Most Lepidoptera have a WZ/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism, and the sex chromatin is derived from the univalent W sex chromosome. Sex chromatin is regarded as an indicator of an advanced stage of W chromosome evolution. In species with a Z/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism, loss of the W chromosome is accompanied by loss of the female-specific heterochromatin. Since sex chromatin can be discerned easily in interphase nuclei, and especially so in the highly polyploid somatic cells, it is a useful marker for diagnosing chromosomal sex of embryos and larvae, and of identifying sex chromosome aberrations in mutagenesis screens. All species with sex chromatin belong to the Ditrysia, the main clade of Lepidoptera that contains more than 98% of all extant species. Sex chromatin has not been reported for clades that branched off earlier. The nonditrysian clades share this character with Trichoptera, a sister group of the Lepidoptera. We propose that Lepidoptera originally had a Z/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism like Trichoptera; the WZ/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism evolved later in the ditrysian branch of Lepidoptera. Secondary losses of the W chromosome account for the sporadically occurring Z/ZZ sex chromosome systems in ditrysian families. The lepidopteran sex chromatin, therefore, appears to mirror the full evolutionary life cycle of a univalent sex chromosome from its birth through heterochromatinization to sporatic loss.
3035646|According to a recent hypthesis, menstruation evolved to protect the uterus oviducts from sperm-borne pathogens by dislodging infected endometrial tissue and delivering immune cells to the uterine cavity. This hypothesis predicts the following: (1) uterine pathogens should be more prevalent before menses than after menses, (2) in the life histories of females, the timing of menstruation should track pathogen burden, and (3) in primates, the copiousness of menstruation should increase with the promiscuity of the breeding system. I tested these predictions and they were not upheld by the evidence. I propose the alternative hypothesis that the uterine endometrium is shed/resorbed whenever implantation fails because cyclical regression and renewal is energetically less costly than maintaining the endometrium in the metabolically active state required for implantation. In the regressed state. oxygen consumption (per mg protein/h) in human endometria declines nearly sevenfold. The cyclicity in endometrial oxygen consumption is one component of the whole body cyclicity in metabolic rate caused by the action of the ovarian steroids on both endometrial and nonendometrial tissue. Metabolic rate is at least 7% lower, on average, during the follicular phase than during the luteal phase in women, which signifies an estimated energy savings of 53 MJ over four cycles, or nearly six days worth of food. Thus, the menstrual cycle revs up and revs down, economizing on the energy costs of reproduction. This economy is greatest during the nonbreeding season and other periods of amenorrhea when the endometrium remains in a regressed state and ovarian cycling is absent for a prolonged period of time. Twelve months of amenorrhea save an estimated 130 MJ, or the energy required by one woman for nearly half a month. By helping females to maintain body mass, energy economy will promote female fitness in any environment in which fecundity and survivorship is constrained by the food supply. Endometrial economy may be of ancient evolutionary origin because similar reproductive structures, such as the oviduct of lizards, also regress when a fertilized egg is unlikely to be present. Regression of the endometrium is usually accompained by reabsorption, but in some species as much as one third of the endometrial and vascular tissue is shed as the menses. Rather than having and adaptive basis in ecology or behavior, variation in the degree of menstrual bleeding in primates shows a striking correlation with phylogeny. The endometrial microvasculature is designed to provide the blood supply to the endometrium and the placenta, and external bleeding appears to be a side effect of endometrial regression that arises when there is too much blood and other tissue for complete reabsortion. The copious bleeding of humans and chimps can be attributed to the large size of the uterus relative to adult female size and to the design of the microvasculature in catarrhines.
3035921|A possible scenario on the origin of elementary hoxoses (fructose, glucose, mannose, and galactose) is proposed: (1) Formol reaction, an autocatalytic polymerization reaction, occurred on the primitive earth under weakly alkaline conditions to generate various small molecular compounds. (2) Among them, glyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone undergo aldol condensation to produce stable ketohexoses, fructose and sorbose. (3) Subsequently, Lobry de Bruyn rearrangement converts fructose into stable aldohexoses, glucose, and mannose. (4) Thus, prebiotically synthesized "first triplet" hexoses would have been available for utilization by ancestral primitive microorganisms. (5) After the development of biochemical pathways, various saccharides, including galactose, were biosynthesized from glucose and mannose as "bricolage products"; the utilization of galactose as a key recognition molecule, based on its distinctive axial 4-OH and its outermost location in glycoconjugates, owing to its late arrival, may have evolved concomitantly with the evolution of multicellular organisms.
3035920|Self-promoting elements (also called ultraselfish genes, selfish genes, or selfish genetic elements) are vertically trasmitted genetic entities that manipulate their "host" so as to promote their own spread, usually at a cost to other genes within the genome. Examples of such elements include meiotic drive genes and cytoplasmic sexatio distorters. The spread of a self-promoting element creates the context for the spread of a suppressor acting whithin the same genome. We may thus say that a genetic conflict exists between different components of the same genome. Here we investigate the properties of such conflicts. First we consider the potential diversity of genomic conflicts and show that every genetic system has potential conflicts. This if followed by analysis of the logic of conflicts. Just as Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) terminology provides a short cut for discussion of much in behavioral ecology, so the language of modifier analysis provides a useful terminology on which to base discussions of conflicts. After defining genetic conflict, we provide a general analysis of the conflicting parties, and note a distinction between competing and conflicting genes. We then provide a taxonomy of possible short- and long-term outcomes of conflicts, noting that potential conflict is an unconstrained system can never be removed, and that the course of evolution owing to conflict is often unpredictable. The latter is most particularly true for strong conflicts in which suppressors may take suprising forms. The possibility of extended conflicts in the form of "arms races" between element and suppressor is illustrated. The peculiar redundancy of these systems is one possible trace of conflict, and others are discussed. That homologous conflicts may find highly different expression is discussed by referring to the mechanistic differences that are thought to underlie the action of the two best-described meiotic drive genes, and by the multiplicity of forms of cytoplasmic sex ratio distorters. The theoretical analysis establishes a logical basis for thinking about conflicts, but fails to establish the importance of conflict in evolution. We illustrate this contentious issue through consideration of some phenomena for whose evolution conflict has been proposed as an important force: the evolution of sex, sex determination, species, recombination, and uniparental inheritance of cytoplasmic genes. In general, it is proposed that conflict may be a central force in the evolution of genetic systems. We conclude that an analysis of conflict and its general importance in evolution is greatly aided by application of the concept of genetic power. We consider the posible components of genetic power and ask whether and how power evolves.
2832133|Adaptation is and has always been a sloppery concept. Even among contemporary evolutionary biologists there is no consensus about how to identify adaptive traits. Most definition of adaptation incorporate elements of history. Among these, some require that adaptive traits be built by natural selection for their current roles. Others take a phylogenetic perspective and require that adaptations be derived relative to traits of antecedent taxa. Still other definitions require evidence of functional design in the biological machinery underlying the trait, implying the trait, implying a history of selective fine-tuning. The historical definition are most useful for addressing questions about evolutionary history like, "What was the phylogenetic trajectory of a phenotype with current utility?," or "How does a trait's current use relate to its original function?" Historical definitions are less useful for addressing questions about phenotype existence like, "Why do certain phenotypes predominate over others in nature?" This is because history-laden definitions often fail to classify as adaptations traits that are maintained by natural selection. Obviously it is important to employ a definition that is appropriate for the research question being pursued. Indeed, the (mis)application of history-laden definitions to questions of phenotype-existence has created the illusion that nonadaptive traits abound in nature and caused widespread about the importance of natural selection in molding phenotypes. To circumvent these problems we propose a nonhistorical definition of adaptation. In our view, an adaptation is a phenotypic variant that results in the highest fitness among a specified set of variants in a given environment. This definition treats adaptation as a relative concept, sets forth operational criteria for identifying the phenotypic traits to which the concept applies, and decouples adaptations from the evolutionary mechanism that generate them. Natural selection theory predicts that among a specific set of alternatives the most adapted phenotype will be the one that predominates in a given environment. This is a testable proposition. When it is false the frequency of the trait must be due to nonselective processes such as drift, migration, selection acting on a correlated trait, or recent changes in the environment. Teleonomic demonstrations of adaptation are a special case of our suggested analysis because inferring a trait's "function" implies the application of a specific fitness criterion (e.g., optimal design) to rank alternative phenotypes. The logical structure of our definition allows us to confront five recent challenges to adaptationism, namely that: (1) it is impossible to identify adaptative traits without a knowledge of phylogeny, which can reveal constraints on adaptation, (2) genetic correlations among different traits usually prevent or retard ascent toward adaptive peaks, (3) "developmental constraints" limit the operation of natural selection, (4) the complex and highly ordered phenotypes studied by adaptationists can be explained most parsimoniously as manifestations of simple mechanisms, and without reference to natural selection, and (5) it is impossible to study the adaptive significance of human behavior because natural selection has not had time to operate on humans in our "changed" environments. We show that these challenges rest on inadequate specification of the components of adaptation.
2832134|The control of clutch size is examined is several taxa of birds and the concept that species can be classified as determinate or indeterminate layers is reeveluated. Determinate layers are defined as species in which extrinsic factors perveiced by the female, such as eggs present in the nest, are not involved in determining either the number of large yolky follicles produced by the ovary or the number of follicles ovulated (e.g., albatrosses, auks and pigeons). In some species, the number of large yolky follicles produced is unrelated to extrinsic factors, but contact between the female and her eggs usually reduces the number of follicles ovulated and hence the clutch size. These species are classified as semideterminate layers (penguins). Among indeterminate layers, both the number of large yolky follicles and the number of follicles ovulated depend upon extrinsic factors. Three categories of indeterminate layers are recognized, depending upon the nature of the stimulus that stops egg laying. The first is tactile contact between the female's brood patch and the eggs; it is the most common. This category may be subdivided according to the number of eggs required to stimulate the brood patch. In some species egg removal leaving no egg in the nest is required for the female to lay extra eggs (contact with a Single egg sufficient: type S, Woodpeckers, plovers); other may lay extra eggs even if an egg is left in the nest (contact with Multiple eggs required: type M, kestrels, hawks, grebes). The second category of stimuli causing laying to cease, observed in parasitic birds, is probably the lack of suitable host nests. These visual cues trigger either reabsorption of all large yolky follicles (Discontinuous production of large yolky follicles: type D, parasitic cuckoos) or simply reabsortion of one or two large yolky follicles (Continuous production of large yolky follicles: type C, parasitic cowbirds). The third category, used by megapodes, could be thermal information derived from their nest mounds. Each category can be discriminated by observations on egg laying and appropriate egg removal experiments. Anatomical data from laying females are also a valuable source of information. The endocrine mechanism of clutch-size determination is still poorly understood; it has been linked to the onset of incubation behavior and in particular to a rise in prolactin levels. I argue that the rise in prolactin levels associated with incubation behavior might play a role in the determination of clutch size in tactile indeterminate layers, but not in determinate layers. Inhibition of gonadotrophin secretion constitutes another hypothesis that might be relevant whatever the mode of clutch-size control. Finally, a new hypothesis is proposed to account for the evolution of the control of clutch size in birds that relates determinate and indeterminate laying patterns to food availability at the time of egg formation, and variability of the best time for raising young.
3037250|Richard Levins's 1966 article "The strategy of model building in population biology" is an extremely influential analysis of the nature of scientific model building. His claims that model building involves a necessary trade-off among generality, realism and precision, and that truths about nature can be revealed by finding "robust theorems" are important and deserve careful scrutiny. We clarify the concepts of generality, realism and precision and argue that there is no necessary conflict among them. We also examine the idea of robustness and conclude that it lacks proper definition and that its bearing on the question of whether a proposition is true is highly problematic. Accordingly, we believe that neither of Levins's claims should be accepted.
3037249|Pragnancy has commonly been viewed as a cooperative interaction between a mother and her fetus. The effects of natural selection on genes expressed in fetuses, however, may be opposed by the effects of natural selection on genes expressed in mothers. In this sense, a genetic conflict can be said to exist between maternal and fetal genes. Fetal genes will be selected to increase the transfer of nutrients to their fetus, and maternal genes will be selected to limit transfers in excess of some maternal optimum. Thus a process of evolutionary escalation is predicted in which fetal actions are opposed by maternal countermeasures. The phenomenon of genomic imprinting means that a similar conflict exists within fetal cells between genes that are expressed when maternally derived, and genes that are expressed when paternally derived. During implantation, fetally derived cells (trophoblast) invade the maternal endometrium and remodel the endometrial spiral arteries into low-resistance vessels that are unable to constrict. This invasion has three consequences. First, the fetus gains direct access to its mother's arterial blood. Therefore, a mother cannot reduce the nutrient content of blood reaching the placenta without reducing the nutrient supply to her own tissues. Second, the volume of blood reaching the placenta becomes largely independent of control by the local maternal vasculature. Third, the placenta is able to release hormones and other substances directly into the maternal circulation. Placental hormones, including human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and human placental lactogen (hPL), are predicted to manipulate maternal physiology of fetal benefit. For example, hPL is proposed to act on maternal prolactin receptors to increase maternal resistance to insulin. If unopposed, the effect of hPL would be to maintain higher blood glucose levels for longer periods after meals. This action, however, is countered by increased maternal production of insulin. Gestational diabetes develops if the mother is unable to mount an adequate response to fetal manipulation. Similarly, fetal genes are predicted to enhance the flow of maternal blood through the placenta by increasing maternal blood pressure. Preeclampsia can be interpreted as an attempt by a poorly nourished fetus to increase its supply of nutrients by increasing the resistance of its mother's peripheral circulation.
2829967|The concept of the gene is and has always been a continously evolving one. In order to provide a structure for understanding the concept, its history is divided into classical, neoclassical, and modern periods. The classical view prevailed into the 1930s, and conceived the gene as an indivisible unit of genetic transmission, recombination, mutation, and function. The discovery of intragenic recombination in the early 1940s and the establishment of DNA as the physical basis of inheritance led to the neoclassical concept of the gene, which prevailed until the 1970s. In this view the gene (or cistron, as it was called then) was subdivided into its constituent parts, mutons and recons, indetified as nucleotides. Each cistron was believed to be responsible for the synthesis of a single mRNA and hence for one polypeptide. This colinearity hypothesis prevailed from 1955 to the 1970s. Starting from the early 1970s, DNA technologies have led to the modern period of gene conceptualization, wherein none of the classical or neoclassical criteria are sufficient to define a gene. Modern discoveries include those of repeated genes, split genes and alternative splicing, assembled genes, overlapping genes, transposable genes, complex promoters, multiple polyadenylation sites, polyprotein genes, editing of the primary transcript, and nested genes. We are currently left with a rather abstract, open, and generalized concept of the gene, even though our comprehension of the structure and organization of the genetic material has greatly increased.
2831192|Inference procedures integrate past experience with current sense data to permit perception of the content of the sense data as objects and events. This notion impinges on views of knowledge. The dominant Western view that knowledge is "justified, true belief" is orthogonal to the classical secular view prevalent in ancient India that "knowledge is a means for successful behavior." Both views rely on inference from empirical observations, and both use formalisms and schema for "valid" inference to delineate assumptions, to evaluate liability of conclusions, to assure validity of the knowledge base, and to identify bases for controversies. The view that knowledge is successful behavior explicitly deemphasizes the a priori, while emphasizing the veridical character of the evidence rather than its "truth value." This approach is often used to deal with the unknown in unfolding events because it increases the chances of success.
2831191|Sperm are vectors of disease. During mammalian insemination bacteria from the male and female genitalia regularly cling to sperm tails and are transported to the uterus. I propose that menstruation functions to protect the uterus and oviducts from colonization by pathogens. Menstrual blood exerts mechanical pressure on uterine tissue, forcing it to shed, and delivers large numbers of immune cells throughout the uterine cavity, directly combating pathogens. The mechanisms of menstruation show evidence of adaptive design. Spiral arteries that open to the lining of the uterus trigger menstruation by abruptly constricting, which deprives the local tissue of blood, and then abruptly dilating, which causes blood to force loose the necrotic tissue. Menstrual blood flows easily, unlike blood at most wound sites, because it lacks the normal level of clotting factors. Overt (externally visible) or covert (not externally visible) menstruation has been documented in many species of primate, including Old World monkeys and apes, New World monkeys, and prosimians, as well as in various species of bad and insectivore. The antipathogen hypothesis predicts that: (1) menstruation (overt or covert) is either universal or nearly so among mammalian species; (2) if the latter, then the existence of menstruation among species varies inversely with the probability of becoming pregnant per estrous cycle (menstruation would be especially adaptive in species with significantly less than 100% probability of becoming pregnant per estrous cycle); (3) among menstruating species, the average degree of menstrual bleeding for a given species is a function of the factors affecting menstruation's costs and benefits-in particular, the degree of bleeding is positively correlated with the average body size and sexually transmitted pathogen load of that species (profuse bleeding would be especially adaptive in large-bodied species with either promiscuous breeding systems or continuous sexual receptivity); and (4) other forms of normal uterine bleeding-proestrous, periovulatory, implantation, and postpartum-also have an antipathogen function. The hypothesis presented in this article has implications for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of uterine infection and, therefore, for the prevention of pathogen-induced infertility. The uterus appears to be designed to increase its bleeding if it detects infection: Human uteri that become infected (or otherwise inflamed) bleed more profusely, bleed on more days per cycle, and often bleed intermittently throughout the cycle. Thus artificially curtailing infection-induced uterine bleeding may be contraindicated.
2824293|This review considers the behavioral, ecological, and reproductive characteristics of mammals exhibiting monogamy, i.e., mating exclusivity. From a discussion of the life histories of selected species of monogamous primates, carnivores, rodents and ungulates, several trends emerge. Two forms of monogramy occur, Type I, facultative, and Type II, obligate. The selective pressures leading to these two forms of monogamy may have been different. Facultative monogamy may result when a species exists at very low densities, with males and females being so spaced that only a single member of the opposite sex is available for mating. Obligate monogamy appears to occur when a solitary female cannot rear a litter without aid from conspecifics, but the carrying capacity of the habitat is insufficient to allow more than one female to breed simultaneosuly within the same home range. Within both types of monogamy, the following traits are typically seen: (1) adults show little sexual dimorphism either physically or behaviorally; (2) the adult male and female exhibit infrequent socio-sexual interactions except during the early stages of pair bond formation. Additional trends specific to mammals exhibiting obligate monogamy are: (1) the young exhibit delayed sexual maturation in the presence of the parents, and thus only the adult pair breeds; (2) the older juveniles aid in rearing young siblings; and (3) the adult male (father) aids in the rearing of young by any or all of the following: carrying, feeding, defending, and socializing offspring.
2824292|The behavioral characteristics of territorial ungulates are reviewed and compared with non-territorial species in terms of social distribution, spatial dispersion, and interaction patterns. Territoriality is related proximally to dominance and ultimately to mating exhancement. Alternative male mating strategies are categorized. Selective gains are estimated by the potential mating enhancement factor (PMEF) and costs by reduced chances of survival. The likely lifetime mating enhancement (LLME) resulting from territorial versus roving/rank dominance strategies are calculated for model populations. Ecological conditions favoring territoriality are discussed, and a comparison is made with territorial systems in other animal groups. There is a need for more empirical data.
2823251|Two sets of evolutionary phenomena find no explanation through current theory. for the static pehnomena (such as homology, homonomy, sistematic weight, and 'Type') there is no causal base, although these principles are responsible for all phenomena of predictable order in the living world. The dynamic phenomena (such as homodynamy, coadaptation, parallel evolution, orthogenesis, Cartesian transformation, typostrophy, heteromorphosis, systemic mutation, and spontaneous atavism) have no causal explanation, although they are responsible for all directed phenomena in macroevolution. These phenomena share one unifying principle which can be explained by a system theory of evolution, based on, but extending, the current synthetic theory. This system theory envisages feedback conditions between genotype and phenotype by which the chances of successful adaptation increase if the genetic units, by insertion of superimposed genes, copy the functional dependencies of those phene structrues for which they code. This positive feedback of the adaptive speed (or probability) within a single adaptive direction is compensated by negative feedback in most of the alternative directions. The negative feedback operates as selection no by environmental but by systemic conditions developed by the organization of the organism. The consequences are an imitatively organized system of gene interactions, the rehabilitation of classical systematics, the reality of the "natural system," and, in general, the resolution of the contradiction between neodarwinists and their critics, between reductionists and holists, between "a priori" and "a posteriori" views, between idealism and materialism, and between the notions of freedom and of purpose in evolution.
2823252|The population interaction termed biological exploitation includes what has formely been called predation, as well as other interactions in which one population takes advantage of another (e.g., grazing, parasitism, batesian Mimicry). An instantaneous, deterministic theory using graps of the properties of difficult and even unknown autonomous nonlinear differential equation systems has been developed to simplify greatly the task of understanding the dynamics of such systems and of predicting qualitative properties of their solutions. This review shows how the theory may be used to account for some of the observed dynamics of well-known laboratory sistems including their oscillatory periods and neighborhood stability. It also extends the theory to cover situations where the predator prefers to attack weak or otherwise vulnerable victims, In this case, an upper limit is shown to be added to victim oscillations which can serve to promote the survival probability of the system despite the fact that it may diminish the system's ability to return to a steady state following perturbation. Finally, the theory is applied to the problem of management of a pest by biocides. An important result of earlier predation theory, which has tended to be discarded because of the oversiplifications in that work, is shown to hold in many of the more realistic situations described by graphical exploitation theory: addition of a biocide can actually increase the average population densities of the species one intended to attack. The principle at work here may well account for some modern instances of crop-pest population explosions, and could have helped to predict which pests were likely candidates for control by chemical means and which were not.
2824021|Many of the 200 or so non-protein amino acids synthesized by higher plants are related structurally to the constituents of common proteins. L-Canavanine, the guanidinooxy structural analogue of L-arginine, is representative of this group. It has provided valuable insight into the biological effects and the mode of action of non-protein amino acids which act as analogues of the protein amino acids. The arginyl-tRNA synthetases of numerous canavanine-free species charge canavanine, and canavanine is subsequently incorporated into the nascent polypeptide chain. Production of canavanine-containing proteins ultimately can disrupt critical reactions of RNA and DNA metabolism as well as protein synthesis. Canavanine also affects regulatory and catalytic reactions of arginine metabolism, arginine uptake, formation of structural components, and other cellular processes. In these ways, canavanine alters essential biochemical reactions and becomes a potent antimetabolite of arginine in a wide spectrum of species. These deleterious properties of canavanine render it a highly toxic secondary plant constituent that probably functions as an allelochemic agent that deters the feeding activity of phytophagous insects and other herbivores.
2824020|Beginning with Emlen (1966) and MacArthur and Pianka (1966) and extending through the last ten years, several authors have sought to predict the foraging behavior of animals by means of mathematical models. These models are very similar,in that they all assume that the fitness of a foraging animal is a function of the efficiency of foraging measured in terms of some "currency" (Schoener, 1971) -usually energy- and that natural selection has resulted in animals that forage so as to maximize this fitness. As a result of these similarities, the models have become known as "optimal foraging models"; and the theory that embodies them, "optimal foraging theory." The situations to which optimal foraging theory has been applied, with the exception of a few recent studies, can be divided into the following four categories: (1) choice by an animal of which food types to eat (i.e., optimal diet); (2) choice of which patch type to feed in (i.e., optimal patch choice); (3) optimal allocation of time to different patches; and (4) optimal patterns and speed of movements. In this review we discuss each of these categories separately, dealing with both the theoretical developments and the data that permit tests of the predictions. The review is selective in the sense that we emphasize studies that either develop testable predictions or that attempt to test predictions in a precise quantitative manner. We also discuss what we see to be some of the future developments in the area of optimal foraging theory and how this theory can be related to other areas of biology. Our general conclusion is that the simple models so far formulated are supported are supported reasonably well by available data and that we are optimistic about the value both now and in the future of optimal foraging theory. We argue, however, that these simple models will requre much modification, espicially to deal with situations that either cannot easily be put into one or another of the above four categories or entail currencies more complicated that just energy.
2824162|A theory regarding the early evolution of the eukaryotes is presented. It is proposed that the eukaryotes evolved through the successive stages: amoeba, flagellate, sexual flagellate. It is postulated that sexuality emerged only once. A scheme relating evolution of the whiplash and tinsel forms of the flagellum to the evolution of sexuality is presented. It is suggested that sexuality first appeared in organisms capable of producing both forms of the flagellum. The phylogeny supports the hypotheses that the falgellum developed from the spindle system, and that the nucleate algae evolved from protozoa through symbiosis with photosynthetic organisms related to the blue-green bacteria. It is consistent with the hypothesis that the mitochondrion was acquired by symbiosis. The phylogeny provides clearer definitions for kingdoms, and indicates the separation into seven kingdoms, as follows: Monera, Protozoa, Algae, Fungi, Porifera, Plantae, Animalia.
2824163|A review of the literature on vertebrate hybridization reveals the existence of a number of narrow hybrid zones. Three hypotheses have been suggested to explain the occurrence of these zones. The ephemeral-zone hypothesis states that hybridization will end either in speciation or fusion of the hybridizing taxa by means of introgression. The dynamic-equilibrium hypothesis allows the possibility that narrow hybrid zones might be stable: where hybrids are confined to a small area by steep selection gradients, "crystalization" of an antihybridization mechanism might be prevented by naive immigrants from the parental populations eve though hybrids are selected against. The hybrid-superiority hypothesis states that hybrids are more fit than parental phenotypes in some environments. The ephemeral-zone hypothesis fails to explain the antiquity and apparent stability of several hybrid zones. The dynamic-equilibrium hypothesis does not adequately explain the persistence of hybrid populations that do not receive a substantial influx of genes from both parental populations. The hybrid-superiority hypothesis is consistent with the various sizes, shapes, and positions reported for stable hybrid zones because, under this hypothesis, the range of a hybrid population is determined by the range of environmental conditions within which the hybrids are superior. Although there are exceptions, most vertebrate hybrid zones are, in fact, narrow. The hybrid-superiority hypothesis must accommodate this fact. The additional hypothesis is offered that hybrids, in some cases, can succeed in environments where competition from parental phenotypes is weak. Thus, hybrid populations are often found in areas devoid of stable ecological communities. Ecotones are one such area, and I suggest that stable hybrid zones are often narrow because they tend to occur in ecotones which are themselves narrow.
2827868|Since the survival and well-being of humankind is so inextricably bound to our domestic animals and plants, it is important that we understand the domestication process and its biological consequences. The objective of this review is to discuss available information on the biological basis of animal domestication, with particular emphasis on behavior. Domestication concerns adaptation, which is usually to a captive environment and which is achieved by some combination of genetic changes occurring over generations, as well as by environmentally induced changes in development that recur during each generation. Genetic changes will occur in population of organisms undergoing domestication as a result of both chance and of any shift in selection pressures accompanying the transition from nature to captivity. In addition to changes in gene frequencies, adaptation to the captive environment may be facilitated by certain recurring environmental events or management practices that influence the development of specific biological traits. It is difficult to generalize about the effects of domestication on either genetic or phenotypic variability because of different selection pressures on different traits and species. However, it is apparent that, with respect to animal behavior, domestication has influenced the quantitative rather than qualitative nature of the response. The postulated loss of certain behavior patterns under domestication can usually be explained by a heightening of response thresholds above normal levels of stimulation. Conversely, lowered thresholds of response often can be accounted for by constant exposure to certains forms of stimulation. Certain behaviors may have been altered because of man's role as a buffer between the animal and its environment. One of the more important behavioral changes accompanying the domestication process is a reduction in responsiveness to changes in the animal's environment. Food provisioning and man's control over the breeding process have reduced competition for important resources, and thus have permitted selection for the retention of juvenile characteristics (neotony). Feralization is the domestication process in reverse. The capacity of domestic animals to survive in nature may depend on the extent to which the gene pool of the population has been altered during the domestication process. "Natural" gene pools should be protected when breeding wild animals in captivity for the purpose of reestablishing free-living natural populations.
2827869|Echolocation is polyphyletic among vertebrates and is currently known from some species in the orders Caprimulgiformes, Apodiformes, Chiroptera, Cetacea, Pinnipedia, Rodentia, and Primates. The ability to echolocate permits an animal to find roosts, food, or both, irrespective of light conditions. Microchiropterans are unique in producing echolocation calls that show structured changes in frequency over time; other echolocators rely on broadband clicks. The Microchiroptera are often treated as models for echolocation, since many of them use it to detect flying prey. Nevertheless, certain other species of Microchiroptera do not use echolocation when hunting, but depend in that activity upon vision, sounds emanating from the prey, or olfaction. Some bats capable of echolocation actually cease producing echolocation calls during their attacks on prey, although others do not, even when relying on different cues to find their targets. All Microchiroptera are not obligate echolocators. Playback experiments have demonstrated that echolocation calls serve a communication role in some species of bats. Furthermore, echolocation calls appear to be derived from communication signals, and the early echolocators may have used this mode of orientation to assess background rather than to choose targets, a role still played by the echolocation of birds and shrews. Echolocation divulges a great deal of information about the echolocator itself, and so permits intraspecific and interspecific piracy of information, a consequence that could be inconvenient or fatal. Echolocation has important implications for many aspects of the behavior and ecology of animals that use it.
2828261|The growth rate and final size of developing organs is controlled by organ-intrinsic mechanisms as well as by hormones and growth factors that originate outside the target organ. Recent work on Drosophila imaginal discs and other regenerating systems has led to the conclusion that the intrinsic growth-control mechanism that controls regenerative growth depends on position-specific interactions between cells and their neighbors, and that these interactions also control pattern formation. According to this interpretation, local growth by cell proliferation is stimulated when cells with disparate positional information are confronted as a result of grafting or wound healing. This local growth leads to intercalation of cells with intervening positional values until the positional information discontinuity is eliminated. When all discontinuities have been eliminated from a positional field, growth stops. In this article we consider the possibility that organ growth during normal development may be controlled by an intercalation mechanism similar to that proposed for regenerative growth. Studies of imaginal disc growth are consistent with this suggestion, and in addition they show that the cell interactions thought to control growth are independent of cell lineage. Developing organs of vertebrates also show intrinsic growth-control mechanisms, as demonstrated by the execution of normal growth programs by immature organs that are transplanted to fully growth hosts or to hosts with genetically different growth parameters. Furthermore, these organ-intrinsic mechanisms also appear to be based on position-specific cell interactions, as suggested by the growth stimulation seen after partial extirpation of rearrangement by grafting. In organs of most adult vertebrates, the organ-intrinsic growth-control systems seems to be suppressed as shown by the loss of regenerative ability, although it is clearly retained in the limbs, tails and other organs of salamanders. The clearest example of an extrinsic growth regulator is growth hormone, which plays a dominant role along with insulin-like growth factors, thyroid hormone and sex hormones in supporting the growth of bones and other organs in postnatal mammals. These hormones do not appear to regulate prenatal growth, but other hormones and insulin-like growth factors may be important prenatally. The importance of other growth factors in regulating organ growth in vivo remains to be established. It is argued that both intrinsic and extrinsic factors control organ growth, and that there may be important interactions between the two types of control during development.
2828262|An effort has been made to survey all major publications produced around the world in commemoration of the centennial of Charles Darwin's death. Over seventy publications of collected essays dedicated to the occasion have been identified, as well as over a hundrey symposia, lecture series, special museum exhibits, and miscellaneous other events. These publications and events are presented in an annotated list, by country. Most of the English-language publications that are primarily biological in nature are briefly reviewed so as to indicate their target ardience, significance, and quality. Italy, followed by Spain, then England, France, and the United States, did most to commemorate the centennial. Relatively few centennial publications of activities originated in communist bloc countries, or in Latin America, Africa, Asia, or the British Commonwealth excluding Englad. In the United States, commemorative activities were almost exclusively university-based, a situation indicating that Darwinism is perceived as an essentially academic discipline in America. In continental Europe, sponsorship by a political organization or government was common, with a particular pattern that indicates a prevalent association of Darwinism with leftist political ideologies. This association may have helped to promote interest in the centennial in such countries a Italy and Spain, which currently tolerate a broad spectrum of poltical views. The topics dealth with in commemorative papers from around the world indicate that the association of Darwinism with socialist political ideology is far more pervasive than the English-language centennial literature would suggest. Within any country, there appears to be no correlation at all between those academic institutions that are most active in contemporary evolutionary biology and those that did the most to commemorate the Darwin centennial. This lack of association testifies to both the autonomy and maturity of the "Darwin Industry" outside of biology.
2829683|Myxococcus xanthus is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium which shows complex cell-cell interactions during vegetative growth and fruiting-body formation. In nature, Myxococcus xanthus grows and moves as a large community of food gathering and predatory organisms. Cell-cell contact is maintained throughout vegetative growth and characteristic behaviors are exhibited in the presence of certain stimuli. In addition, cell-cell stimulation can be observed in the movement of cells. Thus there must exist specific chemical signals that help direct the movement of individual cells within the community. The most dramatic behaviors exhibited by Myxococcus xanthus are associated with starvation. Starved cells aggregate and then sporulate within raised mounds. Complex biochemical changes which are part of a developmental program occur in these cells. For example, protein S first appears in the cytoplasmic fraction of cells, and is later translocated to the cell surface where it self-assembles to form a spore surface coat. Another new developmental protein that is synthesized at this time is myxobacterial hemagglutinin, a lectin that accumulates in the shockable fraction of developmental cells and that has been located in distinct patches at the cell poles. This protein may be important in end-to-end associations during cellular aggregation. Cell-cell signalling has also been found to be important during fruiting-body formation. Certain non-fruiting mutants can be stimulated to fruit by wild-type cells or by mutants from a different extracellular complementation group. Analysis of mutants has shown that the developmental program in Myxococcus xanthus appears to have two major components: one controls aggregation; the other regulates sporulation. Links exist between these two components, since some developmental mutants are defective in both functions. The study of cell-cell interactions during vegetative growth and fruiting-body formation in M. xanthus provides an opportunity to analyze complex interactions in a simple model system.
2829684|Contemporary evolutionary thought in France is summarized in a critical review of a number of books published in French between 1967 and 1981 and authored by French-speaking biologists. Sixteen of these books are first discussed individually. A synthesis of major evolutionary concepts, based on an analysis of this literature then follows. Mutation, recombination, chance, natural selection, adaptation, speciation, developmental processes, behavior, macroevolution, Lamarckism, and Darwinism are among the concepts discussed. Evolutionary thought in France is often held to lag behind that of biologists elsewhere. This view appears unfounded. With only a few exceptions, the authors of books (or chapters in books) published in French on evolutionary topics in the last fifteen years are fully conversant with modern evolutionary thinking and have espoused the synthetic theory. French-speaking students seeking material to read as part of a course of lectures on evolutionary subjects have the choice of several excellent textbooks that complement each other nicely. The authors of this literature are actively angaged in research in evolutionary biology. The mistaken notion that French-speaking biologists hold antiquated ideas about evolution must be due to the fact that these biologists rarely publish the results of their work in English in the journals considered by most biologists to be the standard avenues of publication. It is hoped that this paper will help English-speaking evolutionists who do not read French to become better acquainted with evolutionary thinking in France. The suggestion is made that French biologists who work on evolutionary topics should start a French Society for the Study of Evolution and should publish a journal as an outlet for the results of their work.
2827008|The ecological and genetic correlates of parthenogenesis are clarified by focusing upon two of the major challenges that confront a newly arisen parthenogen: the genetic disruption that results from backcrosses with sexual relatives, and the evolution of a highly generalized genotype. Both of these factors have been ignored in previous theories of the evolution of reproductive systems. Yet, the geographic ranges, ecological characteristics, elevated ploidy levels, and hybrid origins of many parthenogens, as well as the widespread suppression of recombination in automicts, are consistent with expectations derived from the destabilizing hybridization and general-purpose genotype hypotheses. Whereas the support for these hypotheses is broad, much of the evidence is circumstantial; experimental tests would allow an evaluation of the proposed hypotheses and the more traditional alternatives based on differential colonization, competitive, and coevolutionary abilities. An appreciation of the stringent requirements for a successful transition to parthenogenesis may help to explain its uneven phylogenetic distribution. The relevance of parthenogenesis to the biological control of pest species also requires attention.
2827007|The existence of a method of cellular self/non-self recognition seems to be critical for the efficient functioning of all metozoans. In the vertebrates, self/non-self discrimination by the immune system is to a large extent achieved by means of antibody molecules that are specific for foreign determinants. This article considers how, in the absence of antibody, invertebrate animals might recognize and eliminate foreign material. The evidence which indicates that phagocytic cells are involved in the removal of foreign material from the tissues of both coelomate and acoelomate invertebrates is discussed. The removal of particles appears to be selective, the selection occuring at the cell surface. The evidence indicates that some invertebrates may possess a capacity for specific recognition of self, and hence it is argued that the simplest mechanism of ensuring self-tolerance is one where self is specifically recognized. Nevertheless, a few studies have indicated that some invertebrates may utilize receptors on the surfaces of phagocytic cells, or serum opsonins, or both systems to select foreign particles that are to be phagocytosed. In a couple of instances, the opsonic activity seems to be attributable to agglutinin molecules present in the hemolymph of these invertebrates. In order to ensure self-tolerance in situations where opsonins or phagocyte receptors bind self cells in addition to foreign particles-i.e., where these molecules bind to a common determinant on cell surfaces-a two-signal controlling mechanism is envisaged. The adhesion of particles to a phagocyte by means of opsonins or phagocyte receptors, in such a case, could stimulate ingestion (signal 1) unless the phagocyte simultaneously received a "don't kill" signal (signal 2) resulting from the occupancy of its self-recognition receptors. Support for aspects of this model is found in the literature, although studies capable of withstanding critical analysis are limited.
2821184|Kin-selection theory (Hamilton's "genetical theory") explains how aid that is self-sacrificing (in terms of classical individual fitness), or "altruism," can evolve if sufficiently beneficial to relatives. It is discussed here in order to clarify the meaning of kin selection and inclusive fitness (the total reproductive valve of an individual, both its production of offspring and effects on the reproduction of relatives). Hamilton's condition K > 1/r, the relationship of benefit/cost and relatedness necessary for advantageous altruism, is reformulated so as to be applicable to altruism by descendents, and from the point of view of any member of a population (e.g., affected parties other than the altruist). A General expression is derived which defines inclusive fitness in terms of a classical and a kinship component. A unit of inclusive fitness-"offspring equivalents"-is defined. An index of the liklihood that altruism will occur in different social and ecological situations. K
2821185|Previous theories relating the origin of feathers to flight or to heat conservation are considered to be inadequate. There is need for a model of feather evolution that gives attention to the function and adaptive advantage of intermediate structures. The present model attempts to reveal and to deal with, the spectrum of complex questions that must be considered. In several genera of modern lizards, scales are elongated in warm climates. It is argued that these scales act as small shields to solar radiation. Experiments are reported that tend to confirm this. Using lizards as a conceptual model, it is argued that feathers likewise arose as adaptations to intense solar radiation. Elongated scales are assumed to have subdivided into finely branched structures that produced a heat-shield, flexible as well as long and broad. Associated muscles had the function of allowing the organism fine control over rates of heat gain and loss: the specialized scales or early feathers could be moved to allow basking in cool weather or protection in hot wheather. Subdivision of the scales also allowed a close fit between the elements of the insulative integument. There would have been mechanical and thermal advantages to having branches that interlocked into a pennaceous structure early in evolution, so the first feathers may have been pennaceous. A versatile insulation of movable, branched scales would have been a preadaptation for endothermy. As birds took to the air they faced cooling problems despite their insulative covering because of high convective heat loss. Short glides may have initially been advantageous in cooling an animal under heat stress, but at some point the problem may have shifted from one of heat exclusion to one of heat retention. Endothermy probably evolved in conjuction with flight. If so, it is an unnecessary assumption to postulate that the climate cooled and made endothermy advantageous. The development of feathers is complex and a model is proposed that gives attention to the fundamental problems of deriving a branched structure with a cylindrical base from an elongated scale.
2821426|This paper discusses the interactions between the large and medium-sized marsupials, the introduced ruminant domestic stock, and the environment in the arid zone of Australia. The grazing of sheep and cattle has produced suitable subclimax pastures which today favor two sympatric kangaroos but not the smaller bandicoots and wallabies. Tall grass tussocks used as shelter by the latter have been grazed down by the ruminants, and replaced by "marsupial lawns" or xeric spinifex, depending on locality, thereby improving the food supplies for the plains kangaroo and the hill kangaroo, respectively. It is argued, however, that even these smaller marsupials benefited originally from the new grazing regime. Patchy grazing of the grasslands probably created edge effects and other early seral changes which improved the food supplies while leaving adequate shelter. Continued grazing by increasingly large numbers of sheep and cattle ultimately and critically removed the shelter and, therefore, eliminated the bandicoots and wallabies. There is evidence that the plains kangaroo, though generally abundant at the present time, in vulnerable to competitive displacement by sheep, cattle, rabbits, and, in one region, by the hill kangaroo when it invades the plains. The plains kangaroo with its diet of green herbage is most threatened during droughts because the other herbivores have finer-grained diets. Like the bandicoots and wallabies the plains kangaroo in at least two localities appears to have first increased in numbers and then decreased. Sheep and cattle numbers have generally done the same. It is postulated, therefore, that there may not be two opposing response curves for the large and medium-sized marsupials to the ruminant invasion of the inland plains, but, in the long run, only one: and initial numerical increase and then decline. Only the time-scale is different, taking 50 years or more for the plains kangaroo, but perhaps half that time or less for the bandicoots and wallabies. The hill kangaroo may be the ultimate winner because it requires the least nitrogen, and the spinifex it eats during drought has spread as part of the subclimax created by ruminants.
2821425|The publications of fifty years (1925-1974) of the history of biology and embryology are surveyed. In America, the earliest background for work during this period was provided by the collectors, mainly physicians, of books into extensive private libraries. The collectors, for instance Osler, Cushing, and Fulton in this country and Geoffrey Keynes abroad, became expert technical bibliographers during the early part of the half-century under consideration. High standards for medical, thus biological history, insofar as these fields overlap, were also set earlier by Sudhoff's Institut fur Geschichte der Medizin in Leipzig, and American historical studies benefited when Sigerist came from Leipzig to Baltimore in the early 1930's. Textbooks of medical history are omitted from discussion here, but a number of more or less general histories of biology published within the specified period are briefly evaluated. The discussion next turns to histories of embryology, general and special. Recent monographs on the classical embryologist, Wolff and von Baer, are enumerated, as are a number of biographies and autobiographies of important embryologists published here or abroad during our half-century. Then general histories of embryology are discussed, and finally some specialized ones. Needham, Roger, and Adelmann are singled out as the most important contributors to the history of embryology, in the West, during the period covered. Few of the contributors to the history of biology and medicine during the years of 1925 through 1974 were trained as historians while students. It is concluded that the History of Science Society has performed an important contribution in professionalizing the history of biology and embryology, but it is pointed out that a great new challenge faces it in the necessity to counteract anti-historical and anti-intellectual moods and movements of today.
2821891|1. D. melanogaster and D. simulans are sibling species; they are morphologically almost identical and genetically very similar. Whereas their sexual behavior patterns are qualitatively similar, hybrids are rarely produced and when they are, they are sterile. 2. Although not all data are in agreement, D. melanogaster generally exhibits more chromosomal, enzyme, and protein polymorphism than does D. simulans. Utilizin this relationship, as well as arguments presented in the literature, one can argue for an association between genetic variability and level of ecological heterogeneity. This association is found for two major environmental variables, temperature and light dependence. 3. On a seasonal basis, D. melanogaster achieves large population numbers early in the summer, as D. simulans does in the autumn. The ratio of D. melanogaster to D. simulans increases with temperature and more importantly, with temperature fluctuation. Macroenvironmental temperature is an important factor involved in numerical changes within the two species. Both species from Brisbane, Queensland, are genetically heterogeneous for resistance to desiccation, with additive genetic effects and directional dominance for resistance, whereas at Melbourne, Victoria, D. melanogaster is similar, but the genetic architecture of D. simulans is additive only. Desiccation resistance in the D. simulans Melbourne population varies cyclically on an annual basis but not in the other populations-apparently different genotypes are selected differentially at different times of the year. Between-species generalizations, as in (2) above, are therefore made difficult because of variations within species. 4. From collections at a vineyard and maturation wine cellar coupled with subsequent laboratory experiments, it is clear that an environment in which D. melanogaster occurs exclusive of D. simulans is one of an alcohol-associated resource. On the other hand, in certain places D. simulans has displaced D. melanogaster, for reasons as yet unknown. 5. In the laboratory, a number of experiments at the intraspecific and interspecific levels show differences in fitness-associated traits, such as viability at different stages of the life cycle, oviposition sites, and pupation sites. The results are difficult to interpret, often being dependent upon strain, temperature, or level of competition. Studies over a series of temperatures assessing fitness parameters for many strains of both species are needed before extrapolation to the natural environment is possible. The same problem occurs when population-cage competition experiments betweeen the two species are considered, although some of these experiments have shown that competition itself is controlled by natural selection. 6. The differences between the two species are, in general, quantitative rather than qualitative, so that, with the exception of alcohol, both species use rather similar environmental resources. The potential for rapid increases in the spring suggests that both species are more r strategists than K strategists. In the wild, while some niches, such as alcohol-associated resources, can be defined, it is imperative to define the resources used in nature in order to achieve a more complete comparative evolutionary biology of the two species. The value of the two species in linking behavior, ecology, and genetics is only just now being realized after over half a century of studying them exclusively in various laboratory containers.
2821890|Electron microscopical studies of a morphologically diverse, coccoid, presumably late Proterozoic blue-green alga are here reported. They show, together with light microscopy, that the form studied is widespread in the Cordilleran geosyncline, extend the record of well-defined endosporangia perhaps 700 million years into the past, and reveal previously unrecorded ultrastructural details. Coming from northeastern Utah, southwestern Alberta, and east central Alaska, these minute fossils belong to the recently described, morphologically diverse taxon Sphaerocongregus variabilis Moorman, are related to living entophysalidaceans, and have affinities with both the chroococcalean and chamaesiphonalean cyanophytes. Included in the morphological modes displayed by this alga are individual unicells, coenobial clusters of unicells, and a range of endosporangia comparable to those described for living entophysalidaceans. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy reveal that the endospores are commonly embedded in a vesicular (once gelatinousand mucopolysaccharoidal?) matrix, that some of them show what appears to be a bilaminate or perhaps locally multilaminate wall structure, and that some remain together to mature as coenobial clones or "colonies." This Information is combined with published knowledge of living forms to place our fossils in taxonomic context and to attempt to visualize the phylogeny of their eucaryotic descendants.
2822255|In the tropics, where the majority of social wasp species and the greates diversity of nest architecture occur, predation by ants on the brood in the nest is believed to be a major force in nest evalution. Tropical social wasps can be divided into two major groups, according to the type of nest and type of defensive behavior evolved against ants. The first of these includes the genera Polistes, Mischocyttarus, Belonogaster, Parapolybia, and Ropalidia (except the subgenus Icarielia), all of which construct small uncovered nests consisting of a single comb of cells suspended from a petiole built up of a tough material of glandular origin. Mischocytraus, Polistes, and probably the other members of this complex smear the petiole with a glandular secretion that has ant-repellent properties. The species in this adaptive zone form small colonies that are founded by one or a few fecundated females (queens). This type of defense is well adapted to solitary founding because it is equally effective whether the queen is on the nest or off on a foraging trip. The second group includes the remining genera of tropical Vespidae, most of which build enclosed nests. It is proposed that the crucial advantage of the envelope enclosing the nest is that is greatly restricts access by ants to the brood, and thus facilitates detection and removal of approaching ants. Such active defense calls for large numbers of workers, some of which station themselves around the entrance where they serve as "guards." The genera in this complex found colonies as swarms consisting of several queens and many workers. The swarm in particularly adaptive during colony founding in that it provides the large numbers of worker necessary to guard the broad access to the young brood before the workers emerge. In smaller nests, selection for cryptic configurations, probably in response to vertebrate predations, is evedent, whereas in larger nests there will be stronger selection for more economical comb configuration. Several ways of evolving larger petiolate nests are considered. A unique method of stacking combs by treating the envelope of one comb as a fondation for the cells of the next occurs in several genera. This method of construction creates structural problems which have been solved by the evolution of new construction techniques. The arguments pointing to the strong role of ant predation in the evolution of tropical social wasps can be extended to account in part for certain major patterns in the geographical distribution of social wasps. The Vespinae appear to be adapted to temperate regions by virtue of their monogynous colony founding and their large fat-laden queens. Their apparent lack of effective means of defending the brood against ants before any workers emerge may be what keeps them out of the tropics, where ant predation is largely seasonal. In many tropical genera the swarm provides numerous "guards" which actively defend the brood during the vulnerable early stages of colony development. Later, the entrance hole in the envelope provides a narrow, easily guarded access. On the other hand, the swarm appears ill-adapted to surviving the harsh winters of temperate regions and may be what keeps these groups from ocurring much beyond the limits of the tropics. The remaining genera are primarily tropical but range well into temperate regions. Their chemical defense system permits them to succed in the tropics in the face of high ant predation pressure while esssentially retaining the monogynous type of founding that is adaptive where hibernation is necessary.
2822254|About twenty years ago, the belief, traditional among ecologists, that complex natural communities are more stable than simple ones was given formal expression in a way that seemed to offer promise of both precise empirical tests and further theoretical development. The elaboration of theoretical models at first yielded gratifying results suggesting reasons why complex ecological systems should indeed be more stable, but these models suffered from questionable analogies and the use of peculiar and unrealistic mathematical representations. The broad scope of the diversity-stability hypothesis, and its particular implications, elevated it to a position importance in practical debates concerning resource management, pest control, and preservation of natural areas. Observational confirmation of the diversity-stability hypothesis never materialized. In this paper we review the development of the diversity-stability hypothesis, evaluate attempts to support or refute it, and suggest an alternate perspective for interpreting population stability. We conclude that there is no simple relationship between diversity and stability in ecological systems.
2822435|A model is presented to account for the natural selection of what is termed reciprocally altruistic behavior. The model shows how selection can operate against the cheater (non-reciprocator) in the system. Three instances of altruistic behavior are discussed, the evolution of which the model can explain: (1) behavior involved in cleaning symbioses; (2) warning cries in birds; and (3) human reciprocal altruism. Regarding human reciprocal altruism, it is shown that the details of the psychological system that regulates this altruism can be explained by the model. Specifically, friendship, dislike, moralistic aggression, gratitude, sympathy, trust, suspicion, trustworthiness, aspects of guilt, and some forms of dishonesty and hypocrisy can be explained as important adaptations to regulate the altruistic system. Each individual human is seen as possessing altruistic and cheating tendencies, the expression of which is sensitive to developmental variables that were selected to set the tendencies at a balance appropriate to the local social and ecological environment.
2822434|Rice and wheat together provide about three-fourths of the total food-grain supply consumed by man. Because of rapidly increasing population, per capita grain output in the underdeveloped regions of the world delined during the 1940's and 1950's. Fertilizer is a key factor in increasing agricultural production. Recently, several underdeveloped nations made major efforts to increase the use of fertilizer. But traditional varieties of wheat and rice did not respond to fertilizer efficiently. Attempts to breed fertilizer-responsive varieties were generally unsuccessful until plant breders discovered the Chinese rice Dee-geo-woo-gen and the Japanese wheat Norin 10 and used them in breeding programs. This resulted in the development of the semidwarf rice, Taichung Native 1, in 1956 in Taiwan and the semidwarf wheat, Gaines, in 1961 in the U. S. A. The most extensive use of the semidwarfing genes was made by the Mexican wheat program and at the International Rice Research Institute. Several Mexican semidwarf wheats released in the early 1960's revolutionized wheat production in Mexico and contributed to the beginning of similar revolutions elsewhere. The rice variety, Taichung Native 1, made some impact, but the real breakthrough in rice production in Asian tropics came with the release of IR8 in 1966. The success of semidwarf varieties resulted in unprecedented seed exports from Mexico and the Philippines and rapid spread of new seeds in a short period of time. During 1969-70 the new seeds, which were grown on about 20 million hectares (17 million ha in Asia alone), produced a substantial increase in the food-grain production. National yields in Asia which were stagnant for 20 years started rising during the last 5 years. The Philippines became self-sufficient in rice and Pakistan self-sufficient in wheat. Production of wheat in India and of rice in West Pakistan almost doubled during the last 5 years. The semidwarf wheats and rices have begun to make an impact on food production in many other countries. Short stiff straw and short erect leaves appear to be most important attributes of an efficient plant type. Intensive and continued research is needed to capitalize on the potential of the semidwarf plant type by incorporating resistance to diseases and insects. Basic studies leading to new ways to increase yield potential should be made. Although the new strains offer a potential of greatly increased rice and wheat production, the food problem can be effectively solved only if attempts at increasing foo supplies are accompanied by population control.
2822726|The post-1960 geological evidence, and postulations, concerning continental drift are summarized. These, and the newer fossil data, support the existence of a southern Gondwana supercontinent until about the mid-Triassic. There is less agreement about the timing and pattern of the phases of the subsequent break-up; while geologists are in general agreement that the South Atlantic, for example, opened up in the Jurassic or Early Cretaceous, the data derived from the various techniques employed, and the "models" based on them, are in wide disagreement when it comes to the history of India. Biological data relating to continental drift stem from two sources, the fossil record and contemporary biotas. Paleontology tells little about the distribution of the southern land masses during the Jurassic and Cretaceous, although the wide distribution of certain dinosaurs, long a subject for debate (e.g., Matthew, 1915; von Huene and Matley, 1933), argues strongly against the very isolated positions for Australia and India postulated by Dietz and Holden (1970) and others. Contemporary southern biotas, in showing different degrees and levels of relationship, have the potential for providing data on the order of break-up of the major land masses. This is examined. The Late Triassic to Cretaceous evolution of mammals must have been profoundly influenced by the patterns of land distribution at these times; their fossil record, however, is inadequate to provide evidence on this. With the possible exception of the marsupials, the Tertiary and contemporary mammal faunas of each of the southern land masses can be adequately explained on present-day patterns of land distribution in the Hemisphere.
2822727|It is suggested that, because of their relatively simple repertoires of behavior, polychaetes may be particularly useful in behavioral research. An interesting range of responses has already been described in these animals, including those involved in habitat selection, feeding, tube construction, escape from predators, fighting, pairing, swarming, commensalism, and learning. In at least lugworms and some other polychaetes, much of the behavior has been shown to consist of spontaneous cycles of activity triggered by internal pacemakers. So far, little attention has been paid to the role of the central nervous system, but extirpations of parts of it in nereids have produced interesting results. The feature of particular interest in the brains of several polychaete families is the presence of corpora pedunculata. The function of these lobes is unknown, but they are well developed in nereids and polynoids, which lead unusually active lives.
2822074|The origin and evolution of some fundamental adaptations of early vertebrates are examined in terms of theoretical considerations and the limited available data on living and fossil chordates. Special emphasis is given to the question of the interrelatedness of apparently widely different functions in general biological activity and in evolutionary processes. Problems in the evolution of calcified systems and the notochord are discussed in the light of recent advances. A new explanation of the mechanical significance of the heterocercal tail is proposed, along with a revision of its evolution, based on new interpretations of the directionality of the thrust produced by the separate parts of the tail. The respiratory patterns of early fishes are discussed with special reference to the question of the origin of auxiliary earial respiration and it is concluded that lungs were probably an extremely early adaptation of fresh water fishes. Jaw mechanisms are examined and a revised scheme proposed for the evolution of the gnathostome condition, based on the assumption that the early agnathan vertebrates possessed a two-phase ventilating pump capable of producing an essentially continuous flow of water over the gills and that this pattern of ventilation was maintained throughout the intermediate stages in gnathostome evolution. Intracranial kinesis is briefly considered. Finally the pattern of nitrogenous respiration is investigated and its evolution related to the most probable sequence of invasion of freshwater and marine habitats and to the pattern of aquatic versus aerial respiration. Throughout, the functional and evolutionary interrelationships of these and other systems are emphasized, together with the necessity for constant revision of the conceptual framework upon which our interpretations of all data is based.
2822073|Recent experimental information on DNA sequence repetition is reviewed, and the significance of both repetitive and non-repetitive sequence considered. Included are a summary of data on the distribution of genome sizes in animals, new experiments on interspecific DNA homology, the distribution of sequence frequencies, and the interspersion of repetitive sequences within the genome. Aspects of the process of evolution are considered at the level of change in the DNA. the process by which novel structure and function could have arisen during evolution are considered speculatively in terms of the authors' gene regulation theory (Britten and Davidson, 1969).
2822513|The affinities of modern land-living animals are intimately related to the positions and connections of continents, a fact nicely demonstrated by mammalian faunas throughout the world. The zoogeography of modern mammals has roots in the various distributions of mammals during Cenozoic time. In the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras, the relationship between continental positions and tetrapod faunas is reflected by the distributions of extinct amphibians and reptiles. The early Triassic Lystrosaurus fauna, an example of this, originally described from South Africa, is now known in Antarctica, in peninsular India, and in western China. The distributions of this ancient tetrapod fauna, as well as of other later Mesozoic faunas, indicate that the regions in which they now occur were then intimately associated, allowing for the ready intermigrations of land-living vertebrates. This lends strong support to the theory of Gondwanaland, which supposes the southern hemisphere continents plus peninsular India to have been joined into a single supercontinent (the correlative theory of Laurasia supposes a similar connection of northern hemisphere continents), and to the theory of continental drift, which visualizes eventual fragmentation of these supercontinents, the fragments drifting throught time to the positions occupied by the modern continents. The changing relationships of continents due to the break-up of Pangaea (Gondwanaland plus Laurasia) and the drift of the great continental blocks to their present positions, presumably resulted in the shift of tetrapod faunas from the ancient pattern of northern and southern moieties, through intermediate conditions, seen in the dinosaurian faunas of middle and late Mesozoic time, to the zoogeographical distributions of Cenozoic mammals.
2822512|An explanation of certain dental characteristics of metatherian and eutherian mammals is synthesized from ontogenetical, paleontological, and morphological observations. The two therian dental sets represent the two successive Zahnreihen of an as yet unknown therapsid. The molars are serially homologous with the primary Zahnreihe or milk dentition. Generally, molar number decreased from eight or nine in the ancestral therapsid and primitive pantothere to four in the mid-Cretaceous eupantotherian stock. Occasional reversals of this process took place, the addition (and subtraction) always occurring at the posterior end of the molar row. However, the antemolar number has seldom, and perhaps never, increased. Through the Jurassic and well into the Cretaceous, the maximum incisor number probably remained five above and four below. The maximum premolar number remained four in both jaws, although selective pressures favored a gradual retardation in development time of both milk and replacement first premolars. By about the mid-Cretaceous Metatheria-Eutheria dichotomy, this process had resulted in the disappearance of the replacement first premolar. In Metatheria the milk teeth anterior to the fourth premolar were subsequently suppressed to embryonic vestiges, thus vacating the ancestral first premolar position. The metatherian permanent fourth premolar is not "late" in eruption time, for it appears at its proper time relative to the eruption sequence of milk predecessor and molars. The Eutheria retained four premolars until at least the Late Cretaceous, but with the ancestral first premolar position represented only by an unreplaced milk tooth. By this time, eutherians had lost the ancestral fourth molar, which metatherians retained. Moreover, the Eutheria lost a minimum of one, and probably two, upper posterior incisors as well as one lower posterior incisior. The dentally primitive Metatheria, on the other hand, retained the original count of five above and four below. Premolar loss in Mesozoic therians proceeded anterosposteriorly and incisor loss posteroanteriorly. In the Tertiary, however, differing selection pressures on the various widely radiating therian lines often altered these initial sequences.
2822511|Achlorophyllous genera of angiosperms, such as Galeola (Orchidaceae), Leiphaimos (Gentianaceae), and Monotropa (Pyrolaceae), have evolved highly specialized, mycotrophic root systems, along with chlorosis and complex floral morphologies. Productivity rates of most such plants cannot be satisfactorily explained by the saprophytic niche which is often assumed as theirs but is inadequately nutritious. Rather, they parasitize their mycorrhizal fungi. When a mycorrhizal fungus is shared by roots of an achlorophyllous angiosperm an those of a photosynthesizing plant, the former can indirectly parasitize the latter via the connecting mycelium (epiparasitism). The functional mycelial connection between the mycorrhizae of epiparasites and those of associated host trees has been demonstrated by radiotracer techniques. Some epiparasites are very locally distributed. The ecological requirements of their mycorrhizal fungi, such a suitable host trees, may explain much of this localization. A taxonomic survey of the Orchidaceae and Pyrolaceae reveals coherent, continous lines of evolution from green, leafy taxa with fibrous root systems to progressively more chlorotic taxa with reduced root systems. The widely distributed genera Hypopitys and Montropa of north temperate forests represent highly successful occupants of a widespread, mycotrophic-epiparasitic niche for angiosperms.
2822510|The rust fungi are fully parasitic and arose from parasitic ancestors. Heteroecism was evidently universal during their major evolutionary outburst. Thus, the ecology of hosts and parasites was complexly interrelated and profundly influenced the evolution of the rusts. Divergence with their hosts probably has been the chief means of speciation in the rusts. Part of the process, especially in the more advanced groups, has been the initiation of autoecious species on the aecial hosts of parental heteroecious ones. This change may have triggered an evolutionary outburst through partial release from the ecological limits of the heteroecious ancestor. Jumps to hosts of varying taxonomic separation from the ancestral host must have given rise to many species and to some lineages; but few are easily documented. A single example suggests that a hybrid rust may be adapted to a hybrid between its parental hosts; and, if the hybrid host speciates, the rust may do so also.
2826367|The Concept of physiological time is extended from contributions of Adolph, Hill, and Stahl to included a wider range of events in the life histories of mammals and birds. The durations of physiological, developmental, and ecological cycles show nearly parallel exponential relationships to body size (masss
2826369|A unifying concept that appears to provide an understanding of cancer as a fundamental scientific problem is presented. This concept, which was initially developed on the basis of experiments using the relatively uncomplicated plant tumor systems, now appears applicable to animal and human tumors as well. Evidence is provided to show that the tumor problem is fundamentally a problem of anomalous cellular differentiation and that the heritable cellular change that underlies the tumorous state is similar to that which underlies cell specialization occurring during the normal course of development in all higher organisms. Both cellular differentiation and tumorigenesis depend for their expression on the persistent activation of select but, in part, different genes (whether normal, foreing, or both) present in the genome of a cell. Since heritable cellular changes of this kind may be induced by physical, chemical, and biological agents of the most diverse type, and since cells may remain totipotent during the time that they exhibit the tumor phenotype, the results reported here suggest that whether the normal or tumor phenotype is expressed is determined by how the genetic information present in a cell is regulated in the cell. Regulation leading to the establishment and maintenance of the tumorous state may be accomplished in different ways by the different types of oncogenic agents. Thus cancer and related neoplastic diseases appear to have a common underlying heritable cellular change in which the diverse manifestations of the tumorous state commonly observed would simply reflect different expressions of this heritable cellular change.
2826368|Mathematical modeling forms a large part of modern ecological research. This essays argues that it forms too large a part. The uses of modeling are reviewed: models are used to "explain" the functioning of natural ecosystems; they are also used in forecasting, in hypothesis-generation, and as standards of comparison. Although the original task of models was to explain nature, this is the task they perform least well. To compare a model with reality is, in effect, to ask a number of questions simultaneously when they could more profitably be tackled be tackled individually. The search for answers to single "unit" questions, here called "investigating," is more likely than modeling to yield advances in knowledge. It is not easy, as examples show.
2824990|The problem of "missing links" over the years since Darwin's On the Origin of Species is analyzed in the perspective of our increased knowledge of the fossil record and our changing concepts of evolution, geology, and biology. The history of application of evolution theory to the fossil record and the consequences of the conflict of categorical, essential classification and evolutionary continuity are examined, as they relate to the "naive" idea of "missing links." Transitions between taxonomic categories are treated at two levels: the infraspecies-species level, and the supraspecies level. In the latter category case analyses of transitions within and between the major groups of metazoans and metaphytes are made, with special attention to the evidence of origins of groups in the fossil record. Throughout, the impacts on evolutionary theory of changes in knowledge and interpretations of the record of the history of life are considered. The problem of the existence of linkages and phylogenies at the species and generic levels has been much reduced during the last one hundred and twenty years. How this reduction supports or denies Darwin's concepts of phyletic gradualism is still a matter of interpretation of the evidence. At familial and higher levels, the establishment of linkages between categories has been much less successful, and decreasingly so at each successive higher level. Under the very best circumstances, however, morphological and stratigraphically graded transitions between classes and subclasses have been found. At the level of phyla and higher categories, any information on transitions as far as the fossil records is concerned is essentially non-existent. Fairly standard patterns of transitions between high categories can be established on the basis of the optimal cases, and these point up the continuing problems in evolutionary theory as being the interrelationships and integration of micro-evolutionary and macro-evolutionary processes.
2824989|Sexuality includes eroticism. Though its determinants are multivariate and developmentally sequential, most current biological theories arbitrarily exclude social determinants, and vice versa. Developmentally, masculinization is not necessarily synonymous with defeminization, nor feminization with demasculinization. In the development of brain and behavior, behavior that appears to be either male or female may actually be sex-shared but sex-different in the threshold for its expresion. Parent-child bonding is a precursor of subsequent erotosexual pair-bonding. Suppresion of erotosexual rehearsal play in childhood is a precursor of postpubertal and adult erotesexual pathology. The criterion defining the heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual conditions is the sex of the partner with whom a limerent (falling-in-love) pairbond is possible; and there is no evidence that pubertal sex steroids, per se, are responsible for which of the three it will be. The phases of an erotosexual encounter are proception, acception, and conception. The disorders of proception, manifested in both imagery and practice, are the paraphilic syndromes (formerly known as perversions). The disorders of acception may be either hypophilic deficiences, of hyperphilic increases. The disorders of conception are those of infertility. There is a nonsystematic relationship of erotosexualism to the hormonal cycle of the menses and to gerontological hormonal changes.
2824596|The main factors contributing to coloniality in birds relate to predation and resource utilization. Nesting in inaccessible sites reduces predation, as does anti-predator behavior such as early warning and mobbing. Breeding synchrony (presumably caused by social stimulation) leads to decreased predation by producing superabundant food (young and eggs) at one peak time. Since predators can eat only so much at one time, a lower proportion of young are eaten if predators are not recruited into the area. Colonies are usually visible to predators, and cryptic coloration of eggs and young plays a role in the protection of eggs and young, but not of adults. Resource competition includes competition for space, nest materials, mates, and food. Competition for food is offset by the colony acting as an information center whereby unsuccessful foragers follow successful ones to patchy, ephemeral food sources. In herons, all these factors apply, and the advantages of mixed-species heronries to individuals include minimizing nest competition and food competition, while maximizing anti-predator behavior and increasing social interactions and information transfer. A model is presented that uses these selection factors to predict the optimal colony size for Ciconiiformes. Using the model, predictions are made concerning heronries, and several are tested from published data.
2824595|Pattern formation is the process by which cells in regenerating and developing systesm are spatially organized to form the complex structures of the adult organism. This aspect of morphogenesis has intrigued developmental biologists for over a century. The urodele limb has been used extensively in the study of morphogenesis during regeneration and several models have been proposed to account for a variety of experimental results. The purpose of this paper is to review the experiments that have been published since the turn of the century that deal with patter formation in the regenerating limbs of urodele amphibians and to discuss these results in the context of recent theoretical models.
2826463|Hatching asynchrony within a brood, produced by the parent(s) initiating incubation before all eggs are laid, varies in degree among and within bird species. Its occurrence has been explained primarily as a mechanism for brood reduction in habitats with unpredictable resources, and less often as a response to nest predation. Using a simply model of the effect of total nest failure on optimal asynchrony, we predict that, even in the absence of brood reduction, most bird species should commence incubation before the last egg is laid. Data from 87 species of altricial birds support the nest-failure model and not the brood-reduction hypothesis. Other features of bird reproductive biology (e.g., variation in egg weight), which are problematic for the brood-reduction hypothesis, are also explained by the nest-failure model.
2826464|DNA damage appears to be ubiquitous in the biological world, as judged by the variety of organisms which have evolved DNA-repair systems. Previously, it was proposed that germ-line DNA of multicellular organisms may be protected from damage, and consequently from aging, by efficient recombinational repair during meiosis. The somatic line, however, may be vulnerable to the accumulation of DNA damage, and hence undergo aging, owing to relatively less repair. Although DNA Lesions most important in aging are not known yet, these is evidence for several types of endogenous damage. DNA lesions have been shown to interfere with transcription and replication, and so lead to loss of cell function and death. In mammals, there is a progressive decline of function in many different tissues with increasing age. Deterioration of central nervous system functions appears to be a critical part of the aging process. This may be due to the low DNA repair capacity which is found in postmitotic brain tissue, and which could result in the accumulation of DNA lesions in this tissue. Also reviewed is evidence that species longevity is directly related to tissue DNA-repair capacity and that aging may be accelerated by treatment with DNA-damaging agents, or in individuals with genetically defective repair. Although it has been frequently postulated that somatic mutation may be a cause of aging, current evidence suggests that it is probably less important than DNA damage. A prominent theory on the evolution of aging, which attributes special importance to genes that are advantagous in youth but are deleterious later on, is discussed in terms of regulatory genes that reduce DNA repair as cells differentiate to the postmitotic state. Finally, we hypothesize that the factors which determine maximum longevity of individuals in a population are the rate of occurrence of DNA damage, the rate of DNA repair, the degree of cellular redundancy, and the extent of exposure to stress.
2820822|A schema for systematic inquiry into different patterns of copulatory behavior in male mammals i proposed. Three stages in the development of a complete analysis are isolated: classification, elaboration, and experimental analysis. A classification schema based on four attributes is proposed. Species may or may not display a lock, thrusting during intromissions, multiple intromissions, and multiple ejaculations. Literature on species-typical patterns is reviewed in terms of these attributes.
2820823|The phylogenetic position of the monocotyledons, in general, and of the family Pandanaceae, in particular, is reviewed. Recent work on the Pandanaceae, and some general considerations, suggest that there is need for a reassessment of the family. It does not appear as advanced as some recent authors have suggested, although a return to the Englerian position is not recommended. General systems of the monocotyledons do not seem satisfactory as yet; it is suggested that a concentrated effort be made to rectify this situation. The role of the tropics, in particular the Indo-Malaysian-Melanesian region, in furnishing "living fossils" is mentioned. Some recent data on the three genera of the Pandanaceae which assist in establishing an arrangement are reported. The genus Freycinetia appears to have the most advanced position, whereas Pandanus and Sararanga are, on the whole, more primitive, the latter perhaps retaining the greatest number of archaic features. In conclusion, attention is drawn to the need to reconsider the origin of the monocotyledons.
2820824|Records for smut families and the graminicolous genera and species, when set alongside taxonomic views on Gramineae, reveal correlations at various levels, and suggest that grass and smut taxonomies can profitably exchange information. Implications of the main smut/grass-host patterns seem relevant to grass classification; to family, generic, and specific definition in Ustilaginales; and to selection of material for experimental work with smuts. Smut records attest to the taxonomic usefulness of festucoid and panicoid assemblages, and confirm that chloridoid and arundinoid-danthonioid grasses are essentially panicoid. They emphasize the differences between the Andropogoneae and Paniceae, but festucoid and chloridoid tribes other than the Stipeae are attacked at random. If Ustilago is ignored, the smut families Tilletiaceae (mainly on festucoids) and Ustilaginaceae (on panicoids) show marked taxonomic preferences among grasses. Certain smut records for grasses are taxonomically so peculiar as to suggest the need for critical reconsideration.
2820738|Analysis of the dynamics of the ontogeny of social interaction is of critical importance in order that behavioral development may be comprehended in its own right, and the relationship between infant and adult behavior understood. In this review, general concepts of behavioral development in mammals are discussed and analyzed, and the many variables that are involved are considered. When it is impossible to control or observe the social interaction of the developing organism in its natural environment, captive subjects should be used. There is increasing evidence that results obtained with the latter are related to social organization observed in the wild. Play behavior is operationally defined on the basis of a comprehensive review of the literature and of personal observations of the social development of canids. The essential "need" for social interaction during infant life is discussed, as is the phenomenon of behavioral neoteny. The concept of metacommunication, and its relationship to social development are analyzed, and the role of ritualization in the evolution of metacommunicative signals is considered.
2820737|In attempting to review and classify the major intercontinental disjunctions in the geographic ranges of seed plants, six guiding principles are followed where possible. Sixteen categories and 34 subcategories of disjuct ranges of intercontinental magnitude (Table 1) are classified according to continents and latitudinal bands involved. Widely distributed taxa are, by their very nature, disjunct; they are therefore classified along with the more traditionally discontinuous types. Thus, for the most part, only endemics and taxa with smaller intracontinental disjunctions are omitted from this review. Generalized distribution maps are presented for selected taxa characteristic of each of the dicontinuous types. Other taxa are listed for each of the categories and subcategories, and compendia of good distribution maps are cited for ready reference to additional examples. Possible explanations for the major discontinuities are discussed. Finally, a statistical summary is given of the numbers of disjunct taxa and the largest disjunct categories. Among the Angiospermae (the flowering plants), approximately 78 per cent of the 324 families, 24 per cent of the genera, and 1 per cent of the species are widely disjunct. The largest number of disjunct genera are found among the African-Eurasian-(Pacific) (600), Asian-Pacific (460), Pacific (370), North American-South American (ca. 360), Pantropical (334), North Temperate (316), and Subcosmopolitan (125) categories; the largest number of disjunct families among the Subcosmopolitan (90), Pantropical (59), North Temperate (20), African-Eurasian (Pacific) (17), and North American-South American (13) categories.
2821773|Kin selection has been used to explain evolution of man altruistic traits found in those social insect castes which have reduced reproductivity. Kin selection is most probable among organisms living in family groups. It is commonly assumed, therefore, that (1) the most primitive social insects, like the more specialized ones, live in mother-daughter (eusocial) colonies, (2) colonies of individuals of the same generation and showing castes (semisocial colonies) are abnormal or originate only in inbreeding populations, and (3) transfer of individuals among colonies must be selected against, except in inbreeding populations. Numerous Hymenoptera are cited, however, in which semisociality or transfer occurs in populations lacking evidence for inbreeding; and we believe that, in explaining the origin of social behavior in insects, Hamilton and others have placed too much emphasis on the evolution of altrustic behavior through kin selection. There is considerable evidence that social behavior in insects is in part mutualistic. Social colonies without altruism are therefore considered a probability. Factors in addition to kin selection that could promote social behavior are examined, and it is our view that a whole series of factors acting jointly or alternately is responsible for the numerous origins of sociality in Hymenoptera, compared to only one in all the other insects. An important factor favoring mutual tolerance and initial colony formation is the need for defense. Hymenopteran workers are commonly reproductive and produce most of the male offspring in some primitively as well as highly eusocial forms (90% of the males in a species of Bombus; 95% in a Trigona). Individual selection for sources of males should favor production of workers. Presence of ovaries and of reproductive behavior in many workers suggests that reproductivity is retained by selection. In the most primitive social Hymenoptera, queens and workers together vary little more than do females of related solitary species. If both the more and the less reproductive individuals profit from the association, selection will favor colonies. The more reproductive individuals tend to start nests first and to be joined by delayed reproducers that are often workerlike. Thus semisocial colonies of very similar castes can arise without kin selection or altruism; they are preadaptations to eusocial evolution and provide immediate improved protection for the nest. Joiners will be more certain to arrive, although much delayed, if they are progeny of the colony or lone founder. This leads to eusocial colonies among which kin selection can operate. Eusocial colonies need not, but probably often do, arise from semisocial ones, as is suggested (1) by the frequency of nest aggregations providing numerous acceptors and joiners of the same generation, and (2) by the ontogeny of many bee and wasp colonies. There is no certainty that kin selection and altruism will arise with eusociality, but they probably usually do; they may also arise in semisocial groups if the individuals are closely enough related as a result of inbreeding. Eusocial colonies without altruism are possible if male production by workers is important enough. Long life, and ability to produce female offspring under suboptimum conditions so that they will become joiners, or ability to dominate other females with the same result, and other queenlike features should be favored by individual selection operating on queens, regardless of the origin of the society. Male haploidy is related to many aspects of hymenopteran evolution. Among these is the origin and evolution of social behavior because of (1) partial immunity to inbreeding resulting from the loss of lethals, allowing long-term aggregations and colonies and effective kin selection to arise, (2) sperm storage by females, absence of a king in social groups, and the control of the sex of offspring, permitting the extraordinary sex ratios found in highly social Hymenoptera, (3) the importance of male-production by workers in primitively social groups and some highly social ones, and (4) the closer relation of sisters to one another than to their daughters, an arrangement that ecourages effective kin selection. Male-producing workers increase genetic recombinations and permit retention of the advantages of a haplodiploid genetic system while permitting also some advantages of the ordinary fully diploid system. The loss of variation due to male haploidy may be partly responsible for the evolution of outbreeding devices, including acceptance of joiners. The joiners are ordinarily workers which, as male-producers, will increase variation, but may in error be members of related species, a situation resulting in the potential for evolution of social parasites. Immunity to inbreeding permits aggregations, in which pressure from natural enemies is likely to promote development of colonies. None of the special features described above applies to termites, in which the need to transfer intestinal symbionts must be the prime factor that encouraged social evolution. In the initial stages (as in the roach, Cryptocercus) there is no altruism, a feature that, however, characterizes subsequent stages in termite evolution.
2821774|The light-induced development of chloroplast membranes has been widely studied and models describing the course of this development have been proposed by various investigators. The development of the chloroplanst in higher plants as described by von Wettstein is briefly reviewed. Revisions of this scheme are suggested, based on more recent data, especially work using improved fixation methods for electron microscopy. Transformation of the prolamellar body takes place via a direct conversion of the prolamellar body into thylakoids, without an intervening stage of vesicle formation. The conversion is through the extension of membranes from the prolamellar body, non through and alignment of discrete vesicles which have broken off from the prolamellar body. The development of the etioplast and formation of the prolamellar body have been shown by recent work to involve growth of continuous membranes which may be attached to the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope as well as the prolamellar body. Thus, considerable evidence has accumulated that the plastid membranes maintain their continuity to a great extent-in the mature chloroplast, during formation of prolamellar bodies in the dark, and during light-induced thylakoid formation. Discrete vesicles which break apart and re-fuse under different conditions are probably the result of fixation artifacts, particularly with potassium permanganate. That continuous membranes rather than discrete vesicles are present can be seen particularly well with glutaraldehyde fixation. Glutaraldehyde fixation also reveals that the membranes contain perforations (perforated or reticulate thylakoids) at particular times during the development of the chloroplast. Their presence has now been well documented during prolamellar body formation and the initial stages of thylakoid formation from the prolamellar body. During subsequent stages of thylakoid development, they disappear. Some earlier workers concluded that thylakoid synthesis involved the inner membrane of the plastid envelope as a source of vesicles which budded off and then refused after they had migrated to the center of the plastid. That the inner membrane does have a role in thylakoid synthesis has been substantiated by more recent work. Invaginations of the inner membrane have been reported to take place through both the formation of tubules and the elaboration of continuous sheets. There are also various types of inclusions found in the developing plastids, some of them tubular in nature, whose role is not clear. Althoug earlier work established that the prolamellar body was a thylakoid precursor when etiolated seedlings were exposed to light, its role in plants developing normally in the light was uncertain. Recent reports have greatly expanded our information about the prolamellar body. It appears under a variety of conditions, and in many species of light-grown plants. It has also been reported to occur in several species of algae, although its role in membrane formation in these cases is less certain. The control of prolamellar body structure and formation by light and its role as a thylakoide precursor is discussed. Intraplastid membrane-bound bodies have been examined by a number of authors in several types of tissues and some of them appear to have a role in supplying precursors dirung membrane synthesis. The possible role of chlorophyll synthesis in the development of the membranes is also examined. Certain stages of chlorophyll synthesis and particular changes in the membrane seem to be associated, in that they occur simultaneously. Unfortunately, the evidence pertaining to these relationships is indirect and often contradictory. Although new evidence has failed to demonstrate conclusively what role chlorophyll and its precursors might play in membrane development, it has had the result of casting doubt on some of the old assumptions. Prolamellar bodies are found under conditions where chlorophyll is accumulating, suggesting that accumulation of the chlorophyll precursor, protochlorophyllide, is not always essential for prolamellar body formation. In contrast to previous reports, prolamellar body transformation and protochlorophyllidae photoreduction can be separated and are not necessarily simultaneous events. The photoreceptor is not known for any of the stages in membrane development which are regulated by light.
2821117|Lysosomes, discovered by Christian de Duve in 1952, and since shown to be characteristic constituent organelles of all cells, are very important containers of acid hydrolases and perhaps other digestive enzymes. The functions of these enzymes relate to extracellular digestion of cells, intracellular digestion, and self-lysis of the cell. The lysosomal enzymes affect carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, and genetic deficiencies in enzymes produce such diseases as glycogen storage disease, and Tay-Sachs and other neurological diseases. Tay-Sachs disease is discussed as an example. It is produced by a deficiency of hexosaminidase A. It is a recessive autosomal condition in its inheritance. Both the heterozygotes and the affected fetus may be detected by tests for hexosaminidase A. Amniocentesis may be used to diagnose the homozygous condition, which is fatal by the third year of life, and an abortion may then be performed. A variety of psychological, ethical, and legal questions, as well as biological and medical ones, result from the possibility of prenatal diagnosis or of screening high-risk populations (Ashkenazi Jewish) for carriers who are married to one another. Many of these questions now urgently need answers.
2821116|The antibody response is a complex process involving the response of a system of cells, termed lymphoid cells, to a foreign stimulus or antigen. Both macrophages and lymphocytes participate in the immune response. One class of lymphocyte, termed "B" lymphocytes, are the cells which divide and differentiate into antibody-forming cells. The second class, "T" lymphocytes, are derived from the thymus and are preeminent in cell-mediated immunity. T cells do not secrete serum antibody, but may participate in a "helper" capacity in the humoral immune response. Marked features of the immune response are its specificty and its diversity. The basis of the specificity are the receptors on the surface of B lymphocytes, which are antibody molecules, similar in most respects to those eventually secreted. The diversity of the immune system is based on the development in the fetus and throughout life of a great heterogeneity in the lymphoid cell populations based on differences in the specificity of the surface receptors. In both T and B lymphocyte systems there is adaptive behavior. Confrontation with antigen may cause an increase in the number of lymphocytes capable of reacting to that antigen at some subsequent time. This process is termed immunological memory. Alternatively, antigens may sometimes cause a reduction in the capacity to respond subsequently specifically to that antigen. This is called immunological tolerance.
2830890|Among vertebrates there is wide variation in the degree to which sexual differentiation is developmentally buffered, or canalized. In birds, and particularly in mammals, gonadogenesis occurs early in development and without a significant contribution from the environment. In contrast, sexual development in teleosts is protracted and plastic. Here I consider this lability in the context of the developmental processes underlying sex differentiation in teleosts, and contrast these processes with those in other vertebrate taxa. One fundamental difference in teleost sexual differentiation from that of letrapods may be in the developmental polarity of the brain-pituitary-gonadal axis. In mammals the gonads differentiate early and affect, through the release of steroid hormones, the sexual differentiation of the brain. It is proposed here that in teleosts the brain is the initial site of sexual differentiation, and that the pattern of differentiation in the brain determines the fate of the gonads.
2830891|The striking opportunities for competition in the pollination stage of the life cycle of flowering plants have been remarked on for many years, yet it is still not clearly known how much genetic variation for the rates of growth of pollen tubes exists in natural populations. Here we review the evidence for such variation, and discuss some of the possible mechanisms by which this thype of variation could be maintained. If faster pollen tube growth rates tend to be correlated with higher fitness of the propeny sired, then most of the variation would be expected to be due to detrimental mutations, and therefore subject to purifying selection. If, however, variation is maintained in populations, it is likely that genetic factors for fast pollen tube growth would reduce fitness at other stages of the life cycle, resulting in negative genetic correlations between pollen and progeny quality. Future studies of pollen competition and its effects on progeny fitness components should be designed to avoid confounding effects of such factors as inbreeding depression and self-incompatibility types, enabling these possibilities to be distinguished.
2832015|In most animals, members of one sex compete more intensely for mates than members of the other sex, and show a greater development of secondary sexual traits. The relative intensity of mating competition in the two sexes depends on the operational sex ratio (OSR) (the ratio of males that are ready to mate to females that are ready to mate) at the site and times when mating occurs. The extent and direction of biases in the OSR is closely related to the potential rates of reproduction that individual males and females can achieve, although the distribution of the two sexes in space and time, sex differences in development time or life expectancy, and biases in the sex ratio at birth or hatching can also be important. The potential rates of reproduction in the two sexes are, in turn, affected by the proportion of time and energy expended by male and female parents on their progeny, though other factors may constrain reproductive rate in one or both sexes. We outline a simple model of the factors affecting the OSR, where relative parental expenditure by the two sexes and the adult sex ratio are fixed, and a more complex model where the adult sex ratio varies in relation to the reproductive activity of the two sexes. This framework for relating sex differences in mating competition to the OSR, potential reproductive rates, and parental expenditure differs from Triver's concept of the relation between parental investment and mating competition in three ways: first, it identifies the OSR as the immediate factor determining which sex completes most intensely for mates; second, it recognizes that factors other than the future fitness costs of rearing offspring can affect the potential reproductive rate of the two sexes; third, it suggests an empirical measure (potential reproductive rate) that can be estimated in natural populations and used to predict the distribution of mating competition.
2832016|Quantitative estimates of past climates have been generated from biological data based on (1) the way in which climatic factors limit the occurrences of taxa or associations, (2) the response of characteristics of taxa (for example, tree ring widths or leaf-physiognomic characters) to climate, and (3) variance in relative frequency of taxa with climate. Relative-frequency analysis has been extensively applied to marine records as old as Miocene in age, and also to pollen records from the Holocene and last glacial epoch. Another approach to Quaternary climate reconstruction is based on limiting factors where taxa can be identified at the species level (as is the case for plant macrofossils). Cretaceous and Tertiary floras have generally been analyzed in terms of characteristics of taxa, mainly leaf physiognomy. For older assemblages, both marine and terrestrial, interpretations are more generalized and are derived from zonation patterns and occurence of climatically sensistive forms. Whereas completeness and continuity make marine records the most important baseline source of information on global change, terrestrial records serve to establish the complete range of climate variability.
2831435|Why do the young of cooperative breeders-species in which more than two individuals help raise offspring at a single nest-delay dispersal and live in groups? Answering this deceptively simple question involves examining the costs and benefits of three alternative strategies: (1) dispersal and attempting to breed, (2) dispersal and floating, and (3) delayed dispersal and helping. If, all other things being equal, the fitness of individuals that delay dispersal is greater than the fitness of individuals that disperse and freed on their own, intrinsic benefits are paramount to the current maintenance of delayed dispersal. Intrinsic benefits are directly due to living with others and may include enhanced foraging efficienty and redudec susceptibility to predation. However, if individuals that disperse and attempt to breed in high-quality habitat achieve the highest fitness, extrinsic constraints on the ability of offspring to obtain such high-quality breeding opportunities force offspring to either delay dispersal or float. The relevant constraint to independent reproduction has frequently been termed habitat saturation. This concept, of itself, fails to explain the evolution of delayed dispersal. Instead, we propose the delayed-dispersal threshold model as a guide for organizing and evaluating the ecological factors potentially responsible for this phenomenon. We identify five parameters critical to the probability of delayed dispersal: relative population desnity, the fitness differential between early dispersal/breeding and delayed dispersal, the observed or hypothetical fitness of floaters, the distribution of territory quality, and spatiotemporal environmental variability. A key conclusion from the model is that no one factor by itself causes delayed dispersal and cooperative breeding. However, a difference in the dispersal patterns between two closely related species or populations (or between individuals in the same population in different years) may be attributable to one or a small set of factors. Much remains to be done to pinpoint the relative importance of different ecological factors in promoting delayed dispersal. This is underscored by our current inability to explain satisfactory several patterns including the relative significance of flooting, geographic biases in the incidence of cooperative breeding, sexual asymmetries in delayed dispersal, the relationship between delayed dispersal leading to helping behavior and cooperative polygamy, and the rarity of the co-occurrence of helpers and floaters within the same population. Advances in this field remain to be made along several fronts. In particular, we advocate experimental tests of specific ecological factors affecting the parameters of the delayed-dispersal threshold model, studies of noncooperatively breeding taxa focusing on what constraints to independent reproduction exist and why they do not result in delayed dispersal, and studies of intraspecific variation in group size and composition of cooperative breeders in relation to local habitat gradients and patchiness.
2831436|We derive a simple operational definition of teaching that distinguishes it from other forms of social learning where there is no active participation of instructors, and then discuss the constituent parts of the definition in detail. From a functional perspective, it is argued that the instructor's sensivity to the pupul's changing skills or knowledge, and the instructor's ability to attribute mental states to others, are not necessary conditions of teaching in nonhuman animals, as assumed by previous work, because guided instruction without these prerequisites could still be favored by natural selection. A number of cases of social interacion in several orders of mammals and birds that have been interpreted as evidence of teaching are then reviewed. These cases fall into two categories: situations where offsprings are provided with opportunities to practice skills ("opportunity teaching"), and instances where the behavior of young is either encouraged or punished by adults ("coaching"). Although certain taxonomic orders appear to use one form of teaching more often than the other, this may have more to do with the quality of the current data set than with inherent species-specific constraints. We suggest several directions for future research on teaching in nonhuman animals that will lead to a more thorough understanding of this poorly documented phenomenon. We argue throughout that adherence to conventional, narrow definitions of teaching, generally derived from observations of human adult-infant interactions, has caused many related but simpler phenomena in other species to go unstudied or unrecorded, and severely limits further exploration of this topic.
2830649|There are three categories of cooperation among unrelated individuals: group-selected behavior, reciprocal altruism, and by-product mutualism. A simple two-strategy game, the cooperator's dilemma, which generalizes the well-known prisoner's dilemma, provides a coherent framework for distinguishing the mechanisms that support cooperation in each category. The mechanism for cooperation in group-selected behavior is deme structure; variance among trait groups allows natural selection to favor individuals in groups with a higher frequency of cooperators. A prerequisite for this mechanism to work is differential productivity of trait groups. The mechanism for cooperation in reciprocal altruism is scorekeeping, which allows cooperators to relatiate against noncooperators by conditioning their behavior on that of others. A prerequisite for this mechanism is that the expected number of interactions between individuals be sufficiently high. In nonsessile organisms, individuals must typically have a sufficiently well-developed neural apparatus to recognize opponents and remember their actions on previous encounters. The mechanism for cooperation in by-product mutualism is the common enemy of a sufficiently adverse environment. A prerequisite for this mechanism is the boomerang factor, that is, any uncertainty that increases the probability that a noncooperator will be the victim of its own cheating. These mechanisms may operate, alone or together, in widely divergent taxa. Empirical studies suggest that cooperation among unrelated confoundresses in the desert seed harvester ant, Messor pergandei, exemplifies group-selected behavior. Other recent experiments suggest that predator inspection in fish may satisfy the prerequisites for cooperation via reciprocity between nonsessile organism. Cooperative hunting of large prey in lions appears to be an example of by-product mutualism. Both theoretical and empirical work are needed to distinguish among these possibilities, and future research directions are discussed.
2830650|Physiological and ecological constraints play key roles in the evolution of plant growth patterns, especially in relation to defenses against herbivores. Phenotypic and life history theories are unified within the growth-differentiation balance (GDB) framework, forming an integrated system of theories explaining and predicting patterns of plant defense and competitive interactions in ecological and evolutionary time. Plant activity at the cellular level can be classified as growth (cell division and enlargement) of differentiation (chemical and morphological changes leading to cell maturation and specialization). The GDB hypothesis of plant defense is premised upon a physiological trade-off between growth and differentiation processes. The trade-off between growth and defense exists because secondary metabolism and structural reinforcement are physiologically constrained in dividing and enlarging cells, and because they divert resources from the production of new leaf area. Hence the dilemma of plants: They must grow fast enough to complete, yet maintain the defenses necessary to survive in the presence of pathogens and hervivores. The physiological trade-off between growth and differentiation processes interacts with herbivory and plant-plant competition to manifest itself as a genetic trade-off between growth and defense in the evolution of plant life history strategies. Evolutionary theories of plant defense are reviewed. We also extend a standard growth rate model by separating its ecological and evolutionary components,and formalizing the role of competition in the evolution of plant defense. We conclude with a conceptual model of the evolution of plant defense in which plant physioligical trade-offs interact with the abiotic environment, competition and herbivory.
2816239|A diversity of results has been obtained from nuclear transfer experiments in Amphibia since the time when a satisfactory technique was first developed for transplanting living cell nuclei into enucleated eggs. This article reviews the question of whether stable changes restricting the developmental capacity of cell neclei are important in promoting the normal differentiation of somatic cells. The results of experiments with Rana and Xenopus have clearly shown that the mitotic products of some transplanted cell neclei have undergone stable changes restricting their developmental capacity. It has not yet been conclusively demonstrated that these nuclear changes arise during normal cell differentiation rather than following transplantation. If it should be found that at least some stable nuclear changes do arise during normal cell differentiation, there is at present no evidence to show whether they promote cell differentiation or arise only as a consequence of it. Other nuclear transfer experiments have shown that, at least in some cases, nuclei can support the formation of differentiated intestine cells without having lost the capacity to promote the formation of other quite different cell types. It is argued that some of these results support, and that others are consistent with, the following general conclusions: (1) that the nuclei of differentiating somatic cells do not generally undergo any restrictive changes affecting the genetic material itself; and (2) that the specialized information provided by somatic cell nuclei either results from a semistable inactivation of parts of the genetic material, or else depends solely upon the nature of the environment in which the chromosomes lie at any one time.
2816238|Evidence is presented supporting the viewpoint that all the moderns Amphibia are clearly related. It is suggested that the three living orders constitute a natural monophyletic group-the infra-class Lissamphibia sensu Gadow. Other theories are briefly reviewed. Finally an attempt is made to determine the Paleozoic ancestors of the Recent amphibians, but the available evidence is contradictory and inconclusive.
2816237|The amphibian pronephric system is reviewed in terms of ontogeny and phylogeny, function, growth, and degeneration. The cassical concept of a derivation from a hypothetical segmental tubular archinephros, and of its nephrotomal origins are well known, and earlier workers have accumulated considerable information about the origin, development, and inductive property of the pronephric duct. Yet knowlegde of pronephros phylogenetic development within the amphibia, of causal factors involved in its growth and degeneration, and an understanding of its functional behavior are somewhat limited. Some recent work in these latter fields by the author, together with that of earlier contributions by others, has been described. It may be concluded that except perhaps for its phylogenetic development (and to some extent the properties of the duct), there exists only a superficial and meager understanding of nearly all aspects of the amphibian pronephric system, the investigation of which should provide fruitful fields for the embryologist.
2818061|Pattern formation in morphogenesis has been a subject of considerable investigation by many biologists working in diverse fields. The present article takes into account various lines of inquiry on the genesis of regular patterns in terms of concepts of genetics, embryology, biophysics, biochemistry, and mathematics and attempts to determine their contribution to the emergence of a general concept. The main emphasis is laid on primary patterns from which the final patterns are derived. The development of a pattern can be brought about by two processes, one concerned with the formation of a 'prepattern' which determines the positions at which structures are formed and the other determining the amount of 'precursor' or differences in the competence of cells to respond to an underlying prepattern. On the basis of this morphogenetic model, some of the experimental results, involving the genesis of novel patterns, and variation in the numbers and positions of structures are interpreted. The mechanisms responsible for the genesis of prepatterns are discussed. The prepattern is considered as the distribution of an inducing substance with regions of high and low concentration; the regions of high concentration occur at sites where structures later form. The process whereby such a distribution could arise is described. Various other mechanisms by which regular patterns involving larger number of structures can be formed are discussed.
2818063|In the past, the development of behavior in vertebrate embryos has been interpreted in terms of two opposing viewpoints. Coghill, on the basis of his observations on the salamander Ambystoma, has maintained that behavior represents an integrated pattern from beginning to end; partial patterns segregate from total patterns by a developmental process which he calls "individuation." The opposing view, advocated by Windle and other students of the behavior of mammalian embryos and fetuses, contends that local reflexes are the elementary units of behavior that combine secondarily to form integrated patterns. The conceptual and factual foundations of both theories are reappraised, and their limitations and shortcomings are indicated. It becomes evident that Coghill's concepts, derived from lower forms, cannot be generalized and extended to higher forms. On the other hand, the reflexogenic theory is unacceptable on theoretical and factual grounds. A reinvestigation of the embryology of behavior in the chick embryo has provided a new frame of reference that places the problem in a different perspective. An old observation of Preyer (1885) to the effect that overt motility is in operation several days before reflex circuits are formed has been followed up, and, in a series of observations and experiments, spontaneous, nonreflexogenic motility was established as a basic component of embryonic behavior. In can be shown that spontaneous motility patterns are not influenced by sensory input. Arguments are presented in favor of the idea that the spontaneous motility in the chick embryo is due to automatic, self-generated activity of neurons rather than to stimulation by agents in the circulation. One of the most significant characteristics of spontaneous motility is its rhythmicity: short phases of activity are followed by longer phases of inactivity. The analysis of recordings of the periodicity in normal embryos and in embryos with transected spinal cords has enabled us to dissociate a trigger mechanism for activation of motility from a device that determines the duration of the activity phases. Spontaneous and reflexogenic motility are regarded as two independent basic constituents of embryonic behavior. The former is considered to be the primary component, not only because it precedes the reflex responses in lower forms but mainly because reflex motility remains latent in the embryo owing to the absence of adequate stimuli; therefore, it cannot contribute to the molding of behavior patterns in prehatching and prenatal stages.
2818062|Although the ecological significance of dew is the focal point of the review, dew formation, dew measurement, and dew utilization by the plant are examined in detail. Consequently most of the published research on dew is covered either in the 123 papers cited or in the papers cited therein. The absence of a sustained research interest in dew throughout the last 200 years is considered. The author attributes this to the disappointment that must have prevailed each time it became apparent that dew is rarely if ever a limiting ecological factor. Against this background the thesis is developed that perhaps dew plays an important role in plant interactions and the relative ability of plants to dominate a site-a role yet to be evaluated.
2819158|An examination of the literature on the disjunct amphitropical distribution of herbs between North and South America reveals that a very large number of genera and species are involved, and that there is an infinite variety of patterns represented. Attempted explanations have relied chiefly on either long-distance dispersal of some kind in relatively recent times or on the assumption that broadened coastal shelves or formerly less-interrupted mountain systems, together with different climatic regimes, may have permitted readier reciprocal migrations in the past than would appear to be possible at present. It seems likely that both kinds of explanations have validity in different cases, and that no single solution for all such occurrences is to be expected. A Few examples from Umbelliferae are offered to ilustrate some kinds of situations that may be found in a single family of seed plants.
2819160|In the flora of temperate South America are two species of Compositae, tribe Cichorieae, subtribe Microseridinae, that are disjunct from the North American centers of distribution of their respective genera. Microseries pygmaea, an autogamous annual of central Chile, is morphologically similar to several species of like habit, found in the climatically comparable Californian region. A hybrid obtained between M. Pygmacea and the closely related North American species, M. bigelovii, showed normal meiotic behavior and was almost fully fertile. In an F generation of 55 plants, phenotypic segregation was more in the direction of M. bigelovii, and two individuals resembled that species with only minor differences. There was a complex pattern of inheritance for the number of pappus scales on the fruit, a characteristic of major taxonomic importance in distinguishing the parent species. A reduction in seed fertility of certain hybrid plants was ascribed to segregation of a small, nonreciprocal chromosome translocation. It was concluded that the two species are adequately distinct taxonomically but are genetically closely related and interfertile. Microseries probably reached South America by long-distance dispersal, the most likely time for migration being the middle or late Pliocene Epoch. In the second example, Agoseris coronopifolia is a variable species, distributed over the southern tip of the continent, which can be differentiated from the North American Agoseris heterophylla only with difficulty. Both species are composed primarily of annual or perennial plants with autogamous reproduction. Adaptations for out-crossing are present in some races of A. heterophylla but not in A. coronopifolia. Preliminary crossing experiments suggest that genetic barriers exist between the species. The general pattern of phytogeographical and evolutionary relatioships in Agoseris and Microseris is like that in certain other families of similar distribution.
2819161|The biosystematics of Blennosperma and Lasthenia (Compositae: Helenieae) are discussed. Blennosperma consists of B. nanum (Hook.) Blake, widespread and racially diverse in California; B. bakeri heiser, a narrow California endemic; and B. chilense Less. of the central valley of Chile. Evidence presented suggests that B. chilense is an amphiploid species derived from ancestors similar to the modern california species. The line giving rise to B. chilense apparently developed during or after the Miocene, migrates to South America, andsubsequently became extinct in North America. Lasthenia (sect. Lasthenia) consists of two closely related species: L. glaberrima DC. of Pacific North America and L. kunthii (Less.) Hook & Arn. of Chile. On several grounds it appears that the Chilean species is a vicariad derived from populations established after long-distance dispersal from the northern hemisphere.
2819162|Amphitropical distributions of vascular plants in the Western Hemisphere are divided into three groups: bipola or high-latitude, with about 30 species; temperate, with about 130 species; and desert, with a substancial number. Close relationships of this sort can be explained either by divergence from a common tropical ancestor or by origin on one side of the tropics and subsequent migration to the other. The latter is true for the great majority of groups discussed. These may have crossed the tropics in a single jump or by direct migration. The plant communities involved are relatively recent in origin. The amphitropical disjuncts are drawn from relatively few families and mostly are plants that occur in open habitats such as seacoast or seasonally moist places where establishment would be relatively easy. Woody plants and even herbs of closed communities are scarcely represented. Animals by and large do not have analogous amphitropical distributions as they would be expected to if the plants migrated by a land bridge or mountain chain that took them directly through the tropics. Nearly all of the plants are self-compatible; the arrival of a single seed in a suitable habitat is sufficient for the start of a new disjunct population. Animals, being predominatly bisexual, are not as likely to establish colonies in new areas to which they are rarely dispersed as are autogamous plants. Many of the disjunct patterns correspond with the migration routes of birds, which must occasionally carry seeds between one hemisphere and the other. The floras of extratropical North and South America have been distinct since at least the middle Cretaceous and are still very different at present; the few common or closely similar species are discordant elements superimposed on this pattern. Despite this, in at least 200 species and species-groups of plants, the relationships between North and South American populations are very close. Many of these are annual herbs of rapidly evolving groups in which chromosomal differences often accumulate quickly. Nevertheless, crosses between North and South American plants in several groups have demonstrated a relatively high degree of chromosome pairing and some fertility. The bipolar species mostly come from the Northern Hemisphere; their most likely time of dispersal seems to have ben the Pleistocene. About 85 per cent of the temperate species may likewise have come from the north, possibly in the late Pliocene and Pleistocene. A majority of the desert species may have come from the south, possibly as recently as post-Pleistocene time in some cases. Sporadic long-distance transtropical dispersal seems to be the best hypothesis to account for all these facts.
2819159|The Hydrophylalceae, a predominantly North American family, presents four cases of amphitropical distribution. Two of these (Nama dichotomum and the Phacelia magellanica complex) have apparently reached South America by a stepwise migration along the mountain systems which partially connect the temperate regions of the two continents. These groups still inhabit the mountains of southern Mexico and the northern Andes. Greater distances separate the other two amphitropical groups (Phacelia crenulata group and Phacelia sect. Euglypta), making chance, long-distance dispersal to the south a likely explanation of their distributions. No conspicuous adaptation for dispersal exists in any of these groups, except for the hispid capsule and adherent calyx in the Phacelia magellanica group, which would aid in dispersal by animals. Within the Phacelia magellanica group it appears likely that only one North American species migrated to South America, although there are now at least eight recognizable taxa there, including one rather advanced annual species, P. simplicifolia. F hybrids of low fertility have been obtained in the complex between two species of Chile and two species of California.
2820129|An apparently exclusive reliance on asexual reproduction is common in the Mastigophora and Rhizopoda; it is rare in the Ciliata and unknown in the Sporozoa. The discontinuous distribution of asexuality is more economically explained by the hypothesis that it is a secondary loss which has occurred independently in different taxonomic areas of Protozoa than by supposing that the physiological and cytological bases of sex have been repeatedly evolved along similar lines on a number of occasions. The genetical value of sex may be weakened in either or both of its components (meiosis and fertilization) and may reach a degree of uselessness in autogamy such that, unless autogamy confers some extraneous advantage (as in ciliates), it might as well give way to asexuality. The latter is an ever more extreme form of inbreeding than the former. Not enough is known about the ecological relations of inbreeders and asexual Protozoa to establish a plain connection between the two.
2820128|Recent publications present diverse opinions concerning the classification and taxonmy of the Trematoda. Dollfus (1958b) adopted the system of Faust and Tang (1936), recognizing three subclases: Monogenea, Digenea, and Aspidogastrea. Baer and Euzet (1961) removed the Monogenea from the Trematoda and regarded the group as a separate and independent class in the phylum Platyhelminthes, while Baer and Joyeux (1961) restricted the Trematoda to three subclases: Aspidogastrea, Digenea, and Didymozoidea. Stunkard (1962) presented a new arrangement and restored the terminology of Burmeister (1856) but revised the status of the Aspidobothrea. The class Trematoda was divided into two subclasses, Pectobothridia and Malacobothridia. The Pectobothridia contain two orders, Monopisthocotylea and Polyopisthocotylea; the Malacobothridia contain two orders, Aspidodothrea and Digenea. Morphological and development data are presented to support the opinion that the polystomes should be retained in the Trematoda; that the Didymozoidea should be included in the Digenea; and that the Aspidobothrea and Digenea should be included in a higher taxonomic unit, the Malacobothridia.
2827326|Among the hypotheses advanced during the past 40 years to explain bird navigation, the hypothesis of olfactory navigation is currently the focus of attention. The mosaic-map model and the gradient-map model are two operationally different forms of this hypothesis. The necessary olfactory capacities on the part of the bird to discriminate subtle environmental odors qualitatively (mosaic map) or quantitatively (gradient map) have not yet been demonstrated. A number of experiments with homing pigeons (Columba livia), designed to test the olfactory hypotheses, are discussed. Some seemingly positive results have turned out to have non-olfactory causes (deflector aviary experiments). Other results are not in agreement with respective predictions (certain types of shielding), or are inconsistent or ambiguous (detours, multi-cur or selected-cue deprivation during transport, ventilation at the release site). Some unidentified airborne factor has been shown to have a partial role in homing. Olfactory navigation as hypothesized, however, has not been convincingly demonstrated. According to a recent analysis, meterological realities preclude navigation on the basis of olfactory gradients or mosaic maps. Since anosmic birds can home successfully, olfactory navigation, even if its existences is confirmed in some form, may not be the universal solution to the navigation problem.
2827325|The complex mechanisms of orientation and navigation in birds develop through the interaction of experience with the relevant stimuli and the underlying genetic substrate. Many migratory species show site fidelity, homing to previously occupied breeding and overwintering localities. The ability to do this requires experience at the site and involves a process like imprinting that seems to take place at least twice during a bird's first year of life. On the first migration, birds fly directions and distances that are apparently genetically programmed and are sufficient to bring them within the winter range of their population. Little else is known concerning the genetic basis of orientation behavior. The sun, stars, and earth's magnetic field provide compasses for migratory and homing orientation. The ontogeny of each sort of compass involves experience-dependent modification during at least the first few months of a bird's life. The sun compass is learned by observation of the sun's arc in concert with the bird's biological clock. There is some evidence that the magnetic field may also be involved in calibrating the sun compass of the homing pigeon. The star compass is established through visual observation of the axis of stellar rotation during the bird's first summer. The pole point is defined as north, but the biological basis of this rule is unknown. The sensory basis of the magnetic compass is also unknown, but it is subject to modification by visual cues, probably stars. In this article we discuss the varying degrees of plasticity in the ontogeny of these mechanisms within the evolutionary context of the spatial and temporal variability of the relevant orientation cues. There appears to be a trend in which information flows from more reliable to les reliable cue-systems during development. In addition to a compass, goal-directed orientation, or navigation, requires some means of assesing location relative to the goal. Homing pigeons apparently utilize sensory information acquired during the displacement journey in this context, but such input does not seem to be necessary. The ability to navigate using only those cues available at the release point is thought to be based on a map of some sort. The bases of this map remain controversial: current investigations are focused on odors and magnetic gradients, but these are not mutually exclusive possibilities, nor are they the only ones. In both of the above cases, there is evidence of experiential effects, and we believe that an ontogenetic approach may elucidate the essentials of these mechanisms. Studies of the ontogeny of bird navigation are also likely reveal important things about the development of behavior in general.
2829455|Laboratory and field studies on about 100 species in sixteen families indicate that several factors can influence offspring sex ratios (males: females) in parasitoid wasps. For many species, the offspring sex ratio increases with one or more of the following: (1) maternal age at ovipositing or number of days since insemination; (2) the age of the male parent or the number of times he has copulated; (3) extreme temperature; (4) decreasing host size, age, or quality; (5) female wasp density; and (6) the number of progeny per host. Other factors which have been shown to affect offspring sex ratios in some species include (1) number of hours since insemination; (2) genetic factors; (3) maternal size; (4) maternal die; (5) polyembryony; (6) photoperiod and relative humidity; (7) hos sex; and (8) host density. These factors may affect offspring sex ratios through females manipulating fertilization of their eggs or through other mechanisms, such as differential mortality or changes in sperm availability. Theoretical development ahs focused primarily on females manipulating their offspring sex ratios in response to host size or female density or both. Host-size models predict a negative relationship between offspring sex ratio and host size. These models assume that host size has a greater effect on the reproductive success of females than of males. Local mate competition (LMC) models predict a positive relationship between offspring sex ratio and female density. A major assumption of these models is that males mate primarily in their natal area. For each model, most ofthe species examined meet the model's general prediction, but models have been rigorously tested for only a few species. Such testing requires supporting data on the assumptions made and examination of alternative explanations, particularly sex-ratio differences that are due to differential mortality.
2829456|Proper hypothesis testing is the subject of much debate in ecology. According to studies in cognitive psychology, confirmation bias (a tendency to seek confirming evidence) and theory tenacity (persistent belief in a theory in spite of contrary evidence) pervasively influence actual problem solving and hypothesis testing, often interfering with effective testing of alternative hypotheses. On the other hand, these psychological factors play a positive role in the process of theory maturation by helping to protect and nurture a new idea until it is suitable for critical. As a theory matures it increases in empirical content and its predictions become more distinct. Efficient hypothesis testing is often not possible when theories are in an immature state, as is the case in much of ecology. Problem areas in ecology are examined in light of these consideations, including failure to publish negative results, misuses of mathematical models, confusion resulting from ambiguous terms (such as "diversity" and "niche"), and biases against new ideas.
2829217|Although the eugenics movement in the United States flourished during the first quarter of the 20th Century, its roots lie in concerns over the cost of caring for "defective" persons, concerns that first became manifest in the 19th Century. The history of state-supported programs of involuntary sterilization indicates that this "surgical solution" persisted until the 1950s. A review of the archives of prominent eugenicists, the records of eugenic organizations, important legal cases, and state reports indicates that public support for the involuntary sterilization of insane and retarded persons was broad and sustained. During the early 1930s there was a dramatic increase in the number of sterilizations performed upon mildly retarded young women. This change in policy was a product of the Depression. Institutional officials were concerned that such women might bear children for whom they could not provide adequate parental care, and thus would put more demands on strained social services. There is little evidence to suggest that the excesses of the Nazi sterilization program (initiated in 1934) altered American programs. Data are presented here to show that a number of state-supported eugenic sterilization programs were quite active long after scientists had refuted the eugenic thesis.
2829216|Thermal noise limits the efficiency of all information-handling systems. This principle, which is a routine consideration in electronics, is just as fundamental to the handling of highly specific information by living organisms. The rapid basal turnover rates of cells and intracellular proteins and the high energy consumption of regulatory organs, previously unaccounted for, can be explained to a large extent by the need to compensate for the steady loss of essential information due to thermal noise.
2828975|Roots, bulbs, corms, and other below-ground organs are almost universally present in communities containing vascular plants. A large and taxonomically diverse group of herbivores uses these below-ground plant parts as its sole or primary source of food. Important within this group are plant-parasitic nematodes and several fossorial taxa that affect plants through their soil-disturbing activities as well as by consuming plant tissue. The fossorial taxa are probably best exemplified by fossorial rodents, which are distributed on all continents except Australia. All other fossorial herbivores are insects. The impact of below-groud herbivory on individual plant fitness will depend upon the extent to which, and under what circumstances, the consumption of plant tissue disrupts one or more of the six functions of below-ground plant parts. Below-ground herbivory is probably more often chronic than acute. Indirect evidence suggests that plants have responded evolutionarily to herbivory by enhancing the functional capacities of below-ground organs, thus developing a degree of tolerance, and by producing compounds that serve as feeding deterrents. Many plant species respond to the removal of root tissues by increasing the growth rate of the remaining roots and initiating new roots. Soil movement and mixing by fossorial rodents infleuce the environment of other below-ground herbivores as well as that of plants and plant propagules. The relationships among the various groups of below-ground herbivores, and between below-ground herbivores and plants, are at best poorly known, yet they appear to have major roles in determining the structure and regulating the functioning of natural communities.
2828974|Deposit-feeding animals acquire food by swallowing large volumes of sediment. Possible food sources include organic debris and sediment-associated microbes. The relative importance of these classes of food is currelty an area of active research. The idea that microbes attached to sediment and detritus particles constitute the major food source for deposit feeders is being replaced by more complex models that incorporate interactions between animals and the food sources in the sedimentary matrix. Many deposit feeders appear to require both microbial and detrital foods. Deposit feeders display many adaptations appear to be cosistent with the energy maximization principle of optimal foraging theory, but rigorous testing of foraging models has proven to be difficult. Elucidation of deposit-feeding strategies may develop as optimal foraging theory is integrated with physiological energetics.
2831684|Identification of the most significant contributions, or classics, in the literature of a scientific discipline is difficult. Recent computer-based citation statistics make it possible to identify frequently cited articles published from 1947 to 1977 and designated "citation classics" between 1977 and 1986. These are reviewed to determine what may be learned about authors, institutions, journals publishing frequently cited ecological articles, and about the taxa, habitats and ecological topics represented in them. A comparison is made with other sources that identify articles of unusual interest. The "citation classics" identified as ecological do not provide a clear guide to all aspects of ecology, nor to all leading ecologists in the three decades covered. Nevertheless, they do identify a broad compass of recent concerns of ecologists and of notable contributors to ecology. Published reminiscences of authors concerning these publications also provide insights into motivations, stimuli, and problems in their research none of which appear in the scientific publications themselves.
2831683|As is the case for some other RNA viruses, the amino acid sequences of retroviral proteins change at an astonishing rate. For example, the proteases of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the visna lentivirus with which it is often compared are as different as the proteases of fungi and mammals, and those of the human type I leukemia virus are as different from HIV or visna as are the proteins of humans and bacteria. That the sequences of retrovirus proteins can be recognized as sharing common ancestry with non-retroviral proteins implies that the vastly accelerated change has begun only recently or occurs very sporadically. Only a scheme whereby exogenous retroviruses exist as short-lived bursts upon a backdrop of germline-encoded endogenous viruses is consistent with the sequence data. Retroviruses are related to many other reverse transcriptase-bearing entities present in the genomes of eukaryotes. They also have proteins that are homologous with those of some plant and animal DNA viruses, and their reverse transcriptase is recognizably similar to sequences found in the introns of some fungal mitochondria. Computer alignment of all these sequences allows an overall phylogeny to be constructed that chronicles the history of events leading to infectious retroviruses.
2830102|Hypotheses that relate disturbance to the production and maintenance of species diversity are reviewed. The hypotheses have been classified traditionally by the effect of the disturbance on the community: Those that involve selective mortality, which maintains the species diversity of a community in equilibrium, and those that invoke causing random, localized, mass mortality, which prevent the community from reaching and equilibrium. Regardless of this difference, most hypotheses predict that the greatest number of species will occur at intermediate leves of disturbance. We develop graphical models for equilibrium and nonequilibrium situations, which we show to differ only in respect to temporal and spatial scale. We maintain that the usual outcome-the greatest number of species at intermediate levels of disturbance-can be explained by assuming that there are trade-offs in species-specific abilities that place constraints on immigration to, and extinction in, patches. Changes in immigration and extinction, the process that govern patch diversity, depend on species-specific abilities to fend off competitors or to endure disturbances. Members of a species can resist competitors or resist disturbance, but they cannot excel at both. If this trade-off does not exist, then the highest level of species diversity will not occur at intermediate levels of disturbance. Furthermore, we show that if this assumption is relaxed or if interactions between the frequency and magnitude of disturbances are considered, other unexpected outcomes are posible.
2830103|Can sexual dimorphism evolve because of ecological differences between the sexes? Although several examples of this phenomenon are well known from studies on birds, the idea has often been dismissed as lacking general applicability. This dismissal does not stem from contradictory data so much as from the difficulties inherent in testing the hypothesis, and its apparent lack of parsimony, in comparison to the alternative explanation of sexual selection. The only unequivocal evidence for the evolution of sexual dimorphism through intersexual niche partitioning would be disproportionate dimorphism in trophic structures (e.g., mouthparts). This criterion offers a minimum estimate of the importance of ecological causes for dimorphism, because it may fail to identify most cases. A review of published literature reveals examples of sexually dimorphic trophic structures in most animal phyla. Many of these examples seem to be attributable to sexual selection, but others reflect adaptations for niche divergence between the sexes. For example, dwarf non-feeding males without functional mouthparts have evolved independently in many taxa. In other cases, males and females differ in trophic structures apparently because of differences in diets. Such divergence may often reflect specific nutritional requirements for reproduction in females, or extreme (sexually selected?) differences between males and females in habitats or body sizes. Ecological competition between the sexes may be responsible for intersexual niche divergence in some cases, but the independent evolution of foraging specializations by each sex may be of more general importance. If ecological causation for dimorphism can be demonstrated in so many cases, despite the inadequacies of the available criteria, the degree of sexual size dimorphism in many other animal species may well also have been influenced by ecological factors. Hence, it may be premature of dismiss this hypothesis, despite the difficulty of testing it.
2830526|Among the many hypotheses proposed to account for the unparalleled diversification of the Insecta, attributes of the egg stage have been largerly overlooked. Comparison with the Parainsecta (Collembola, Protura) suggests that the ovipositor, amnion and complex chorion are novel features acquired early in the evolution of the insects. We propose that insect diversity is at least partially a consequence of this suite of egg-stage characters which reduced constraints on suitable sites for egg deposition, and enabled insect lineages to diversify into previously inaccessible niches. In addition, the self-sufficient insect, egg, resistant to osmotic rupture, desiccation, and drowning, may explain the low incidence of postzygotic parental investment among insects relative to other terrestrial arthropods. In this paper, we review the unique structural and functional properties of insect eggs, and argue that ovoviviparity, viviparity and parental egg care may be have inhibited the evolution of such eggs in other terrestrial arthropod taxa. A preliminary evaluation of the hypothesis is presented, using the cladistic method of sister-group comparison. Sister taxa share a common history prior to divergence and thus provide some control for factors other than those under investigation. Contrasts within the insects suggest a historical association between diversification and expansion in type or range of habitats utilized for oviposition and larval development. An analogous relationship between diversification and methods of embryo protecion seems evident in the Arachnida. Although these general patterns are consistent with our hypothesis, far more information on terrestrial arthropod phylogenetic relationships and oviposition-related characters is required before a rigorous test of the theory is possible. Finally, we consider the relationship between egg-stage characters and other attributes implicated in terrestrial anthropod diversification. We suggest that insects would been unable to exploit the potential of holometaboly and flight without the capacity to ensure egg survival in the wide range of oviposition substrates provided by terrestrial environments.
2830524|Following introductory comments expressing doubts about the validity of genetic load and Haldane's "cost of natural selection," the role of selection (expressed as the average number of adult daughters per female) on gene frequencies in populations has been partitioned into population and time arenas. The population arena (a geometric plane) deals with the fitnesses of different genotypes under the many situations encountered by individual members of the population in a single generation; average fitnesses of carriers of various genotypes are obtained by calculating across these many situations. The population arena includes the point signifying that, on the average, each mother leaves one daughter as her replacement within the population. It is the plane within which evolutionarily significant norms of reaction exist. The time arena is also (geometric) plane, one that is composed of the edge-on limit (average fitness) of each successive population arena. It does not include the effects of individual situations on relative fitnesses within each population arena; it encompasses only the temporal sequence of average relative fitnesses. Amino acid substitutions in proteins and base-pair substitutions in DNA are events of concerns in the time arena; within the population arena, however, gene action (not merely gene structure) is a matter of considerable concern. Thus, the discussions of the 1950s and 1960s regarding genetic variation wich were reasonable within the population arena seem less so within the time arena where structural, rather than functional, variation is stressed. The function-structure dichotomy is entangled with the neutralist-selectionist controversy.
2831093|DNA hybridization is a "distance method" for phylogenetic reconstruction and, as such, shares a set of assumptions, advantages, and problems with other techniques that do not directly employ character data. The technique purports to measure the average percent mismatch of homologous nucleotide sequences between the single-copy genomes of species. This measurement, as any other, is subject to considerations of accuracy and precision. While replicate measurements and technical modifications can improve precision, the accuracy of such measurements is limited by the equivalence of genomes under comparison. Such routine events in genome evolution as gene duplication and deletion may complicate the interpretation of DNA hybridization distances. Beyond measurement limitations, the most serious potential distortions of distances are due to biased sequence sampling and homoplasy. These problems, however, do not necessarily preclude phylogenetic reconstruction, and their effects may be mittigated by numerical corrections. Homoplasy, in particular, is a difficulty faced by all methods of phylogenetic inference. If such distortions can be eliminated, mitigated by correction, or shown to be trivial, pairwise tree-construction strategies should provide reliable estimates of phylogeny.
2831092|Cells of plants, most microorganisms, and animals require well-defined amounts of iron for survival, replication, and differentiation. The metal is an important component of such processes as synthesis of DNA, RNA, and chlorophyll; electron transport; oxygen metabolism; and nitrogen fixation. Because of the insolubility of iron in aerobic environments at neutral and alkaline pH values, cells have had to divise specific strategies to assimilate the metal. These include (1) development of systems for reducing ferric ions to the more soluble ferrous ions at the cell surface, (2) employment of small carrier molecules (termed siderophores) that have high affinity for ferric ions and receptor proteins for the ferrated molecules, and (3) use of transferrin and other proteins that can transport ferric ions. Excessive amounts of iron are toxic, however, and intracellular storage capacity is limited and efflux mechanisms generally are lacking. Thus, cells have had to develop methods of preventing over-accumulation of the metal. These include use of (1) oxygen to convert ferrous to ferric ions, (2) small molecules that can bind ferrous ions, termed siderophraxes, and (3) proteins that, when combined with ferrous ions, repress the expression of iron transport genes. Often, one organism can prevent growth of neighbors by restricing their access to iron. In other cases, cells assist each other by sharing iron acquisition systems or by restricting influx of excess iron. Homeostatic control of other essential trace metals also is required for optimal cell function. Nevertheless, since iron thus far has received most attention, it serves as the model of mineral metabolism. Moreover, many of the observations made on control of iron metabolism suggest possible applications in prevention and management of plant and animal infections as well as of neoplastic diseases, arthropathy, and cardiomyopathy. This review will focus on (1) problems at the cellular level of iron acquisition, storage, and exclusion; and (2) the strategies devised by cells of plants, microorganisms, and animals to solve these problems.
QRB3838|Niche construction theory (NCT) explicitly recognizes environmental modification by organisms (niche construction) and their legacy over time (ecological inheritance) to be evolutionary processes in their own right. Here we illustrate how niche construction theory provides useful conceptual tools and theoretical insights for integrating ecosystem ecology and evolutionary theory. We begin by briefly describing NCT, and illustrating how it differs from conventional evolutionary approaches. We then distinguish between two aspects of niche constructionenvironment alteration and subsequent evolution in response to constructed environmentsequating the first of these with ecosystem engineering. We describe some of the ecological and evolutionary impacts on ecosystems of niche construction, ecosystem engineering, and ecological inheritance, and illustrate how these processes trigger ecological and evolutionary feedbacks and leave detectable ecological signatures that are open to investigation. Finally, we provide a practical guide to how NCT could be deployed by ecologists and evolutionary biologists to explore eco-evolutionary dynamics. We suggest that, by highlighting the ecological and evolutionary ramifications of changes that organisms bring about in ecosystems, NCT helps link ecosystem ecology to evolutionary biology, potentially leading to a deeper understanding of how ecosystems change over time.
QRB4146|Mimicrywhen one organism (the mimic) evolves a phenotypic resemblance to another (the model) due to selective benefitsis widely used to illustrate natural selection's power to generate adaptations. However, many putative mimics resemble their models imprecisely, and such imperfect mimicry represents a specific challenge to mimicry theory and a general one to evolutionary theory. Here, we discuss 11 nonmutually exclusive hypotheses for imperfect mimicry. We group these hypotheses according to whether imperfect mimicry reflects: an artifact of human perception, which is not shared by any naturally occurring predators and therefore is not truly an instance of imperfect mimicry; genetic, developmental, or time-lag constraints, which (temporarily) prevent a response to selection for perfect mimicry; relaxed selection, where imperfect mimicry is as adaptive as perfect mimicry; or tradeoffs, where imperfect mimicry is (locally) more adaptive than perfect mimicry. We find that the relaxed selection hypothesis has garnered the most support. However, because only a few study systems have thus far been comprehensively evaluated, the relative contributions of the various hypotheses toward explaining the evolution of imperfect mimicry remain unclear. Ultimately, clarifying why imperfect mimicry exists should provide critical insights into the limits of natural selection in producing complex adaptations.
QRB4138|How cooperation originates and persists in diverse species, from bacteria to multicellular organisms to human societies, is a major question in evolutionary biology. A large literature asks: what prevents selection for cheating within cooperative lineages? In mutualisms, or cooperative interactions between species, feedback between partners often aligns their fitness interests, such that cooperative symbionts receive more benefits from their hosts than uncooperative symbionts. But how do these feedbacks evolve? Cheaters might invade symbiont populations and select for hosts that preferentially reward or associate with cooperators (often termed sanctions or partner choice); hosts might adapt to variation in symbiont quality that does not amount to cheating (e.g., environmental variation); or conditional host responses might exist before cheaters do, making mutualisms stable from the outset. I review evidence from yucca-yucca moth, fig-fig wasp, and legume-rhizobium mutualisms, which are commonly cited as mutualisms stabilized by sanctions. Based on the empirical evidence, it is doubtful that cheaters select for host sanctions in these systems; cheaters are too uncommon. Recognizing that sanctions likely evolved for functions other than retaliation against cheaters offers many insights about mutualism coevolution, and about why mutualism evolves in only some lineages of potential hosts.
QRB3322|Microbial growth is a biological process that has been previously treated as a chemical reaction operating in accord with the Gibbs free energy equation, 
QRB3782|Progesterone and cholesterol are both vital to pregnancy. Among other functions, progesterone downregulates inflammatory responses, allowing for maternal immune tolerance of the fetal allograft. Cholesterol, a key component of cell membranes, is important in intracellular transport, cell signaling, nerve conduction, and metabolism. Despite the importance of each substance in pregnancy, one exercises an antagonistic effect on the other, as periods of peak progesterone correspond with reductions in cholesterol availability, a consequence of progesterone's negative effects on cholesterol biosynthesis. This arrangement is understandable in light of the threat posed by pathogens early in pregnancy. Progesterone-induced immunomodulation entails increased vulnerability to infection, an acute problem in the first trimester, when fetal development is highly susceptible to insult. Many pathogens rely on cholesterol for cell entry, egress, and replication. Progesterone's antagonistic effects on cholesterol thus partially compensate for the costs entailed by progesterone-induced immunomodulation. Among pathogens to which the host's vulnerability is increased by progesterone's effects, approximately 90% utilize cholesterol, and this is notably true of pathogens that pose a risk during pregnancy. In addition to having a number of possible clinical applications, our approach highlights the potential importance of second-order adaptations, themselves a consequence of the lack of teleology in evolutionary processes.
QRB3988|Here we discuss life-history evolution from the perspective of adaptive phenotypic plasticity, with a focus on polyphenisms for somatic maintenance and survival. Polyphenisms are adaptive discrete alternative phenotypes that develop in response to changes in the environment. We suggest that dauer larval diapause and its associated adult phenotypes in the nematode (
QRB4296|Robert FitzRoy, Captain of HMS
QRB3666|Within 20 years, experimental selection of quantified not too aggressive, not too fearful behavior to human approach was shown in silver foxes (
2828101|The initial radiation of the dinosaurs in the Triassic period (about 200 million years ago) has been generally regarded as a result of successful competition with the previously dominant mammal-like reptiles. A detailed review of major terrestrial reptile faunas of the Permo-Triassic, including estimates of relative abundance, gives a different picture of the pattern of faunal replacements. Dinosaurs only appeared as dominant faunal elements in the latest Triassic after the disappearance of several groups of mammal-like reptiles, thecondontians (ancestors of dinosaurs and other archosaurs), and rhynchosaurs (medium-sized herbivores). The concepts of differential survival ("competitive") and opportunistic ecological replacement of higher taxonomic categories are contrasted (the latter involves chance radiation to fill adaptive zones that are already empty), and they are applied to the fossil record. There is no evidence that either thecodontians or dinosaur demonstrated their superiority over mammal-like reptiles in massive competitive take-overs. Thecodontians arose as medium-sized carnivores after the extinction of certain mammal-like reptiles (opportunism, latest Permian). Throughout most of the Triassic, the thecodontians shared carnivore adaptive zones with advanced mammal-like reptiles (cynodonts) until the later became extinct (random processes, early to late Triassic). Among herbivores, the dicynodont mammal-like reptiles were largely replaced by diademodontoid mammal-like reptiles and rhynchosaurs (differential survival, middle to late Triassic). These groups then became extinct and dinosaurs replaced them and radiated rapidly (opportunism, latest Triassic). The late Triassic extinctions may be linked with floral and climatic changes. Explanations of dinosaur success based on the competitive superiority of their thermoregulation or locomotory capability are unnecessary in this model.
2828100|Vertebrate body organization differs from that of other chordates in a large number of derived features that involve all organ systems. Most of these features arise embryonically from epidermal placodes, neural crest, and a muscularized hypomere. The developmental modifications were associated with a shift from filter-feeding to more active predation, which established advantages for improved gas exchange and distribution. Active predation involved more efficient patterns of locomotion and led to a major reorganization of the pharynx, to elaboration of the circulatory, digestive, and nervous systems, and to special sense organs. Most of the organs that derive from epidermal placodes and neural crest may have arisen phylogenetically from the epidermal nerve plexus of earlier chordates. Supportive tissues such as cartilage, bone, dentine, and enamel-like tissues probably arose in association with several of the new vertebrate sense organs and only secondarily provided mechanical support. The development of armor appears to have occurred later in vertebrate evolution. Finally, the origin of a postotic skull and axial vertebrate appears to be associated with the origin of the gnathostomes.
2829325|The mathematical relations between basal energy metabolism, brain size, and life span in mammals have been investigated. The evolutionary level of brain development, or encephalization (c), is a function both of brain weight (E) and of body weight (P) according to c = E/P
2829326|Female mammals experience a very high and often unappreciated rate of reproductive failure. Among human pregnancies alone, over 50 per cent fail between conception and parturition, and the majority of these failures are unexplained. These findings present important problems for evolutionary theory as well as for health care practices. This paper addresses these high rates of reproductive failure among mammals, by extending the work of a number of evolutionary biologists regarding the reproductive consequences of environmental adversity. The basic model upon which we elaborate, termed the Reproductive Suppression Model, argues that females can optimize their lifetime reproductive success by suppressing reproduction when future conditions for the survival of offspring are likely to be sufficiently better than present ones as to exceed the costs of the suppression itself. These costs are a function of reproductive time lost and the direct phenotypic effects of the suppression itself. To evaluate the benefits and costs of suppression, the following types of cues should be assessed: the female's physical and mental health, her stage of reproduction, the physical and genetic status of her offspring, and the external conditions at the time of birth. We also examine various issues of social suppression, whereby the conditions for survival of offspring are a function of the reproduction and support of other group members. Under such conditions, some females may be able to improve current conditions for reproduction by suppressing the reproduction of others. Field data from our own work are presented, describing socially mediated reproductive competition among continuously breeding female yellow baboons and among female hoary marmots. Social suppression in other mammals is also evaluated, including that in human beings, and we conclude with some implications of the Reproductive Suppression Model for sexual selection theory regarding female-female reproductive competition, as well as human health care.
2828804|Rapid divergence and speciation can occur between populations with or without ecological differences under selection for success in intraspecific social competition-competition in which an individual must win in contests or comparisons with conspecific rivals in order to gain access to some resource, including (under sexual selection) mates. Sexual selection theory is extended to encompass social competition for resources other than mates. Characters used in social competition can undergo particularly rapid and divergent evolution owing to (1) their great importance in determining access to critical resources, (2) the absence of a limit to change (except by selection in other contexts), (3) the generation-to-generation relentlessness of selection on these traits. (4) the potential for mutually accelerating evolution of preference and attractiveness in contests involving "choice," and (5) the very large number of factors that can initiate trends, including mutation and drift leading to use of different physiological or behavioral characteristics as signals, the role of novelty per se in the evolution of combat and display, ecological or habitat differences influencing the form of combat and of signals, and (in species capable of learning) imitation of idiosyncratic characteristics of successful individuals. Many species-specific signals heretofore attributed to selection for species recognition ("isolating mechanisms") are probably instead products of social selection. This may help explain the rarity of reproductive character displacement and other phenomena predicted by the species recognition hypothesis. Examples from a wide variety of organisms illustrate patterns predicted by social selection theory, including (1) exaggeration and rapid divergence of traits (e.g., weapons, pheromones, plumage, flowers, and song) used in social competition, (2) a correlation between type of social system (intensity of social selection) and distinctiveness and exaggeration of social traits, (3) sexually monomorphic extreme development of socially selected traits when both sexes compete socially, (4) occurrence of distinctive signals in allopatric populations lacking sympatric congeners, and (5) more rapid divergence (less phylogenetic conservatism) of socially competitive compared to non-competitive signals. Rapid divergence under social selection may accelerate speciation due to effects on pre-mating interactions, as well as on critical social determinants of survival and reproductive success which would put hybrids at a disadvantage. Maintenance of parapatric boundaries (extensive contact with little or no geographic overlap) between socially selected species may sometimes be due to competitive exclusion in sympatry between populations whose primary divergence has been social rather than ecological. Patterns of variation in socially selected characters demonstrate the wisdom of Darwin's distinction between natural and sexual selection, and the applicability of sexual selection theory to social competition in general.
2828805|We argue that the evolution of order in living systems and certain nonliving physical systems obeys a common fundamental principle which we call the Darwinian dynamic. Such ordered systems deviate greatly from the thermodynamic equiprobability rule according to which, for example, all nucleotide sequences of comparable length should be found in roughly equal abundance. We formulate the Darwinian dynamic by first considering how macroscopic order is generated in a simple nonbiological system far from the thermodynamic equilibrium. We then extend our consideration to short, replicating RNA molecules, which we assume to be like the earliest forms of life, and show that the underlying order-generating process is basically similar. The equation we use as an example of the Darwinian dynamic for these simple replicators contains variables that express the basic conditions necessary for the process of natural selection as conceived by Darwin: variation of type, heritability, and competition for limited resources. By starting with such uncomplicated systems, we believe we have clarified the essential elements of natural selection. Specifically, we show that the fitness of an RNA replicator (its per capita rate of increase) is a function of adaptive capacities which are intrinsic (in the sense that they are determined by the nucleotide sequence) and of the availibility of resources. The three primary adaptive capacities are, we think, the capacity to replicate, the capacity to avoid decay, and the capacity to acquire and process resources. Competitive sucess among different replicators depends on the relative value of these adaptive capacities. We show for phage T4, the most complex organism for which nearly all gene functions are characterized, that its approximately 140 known genes fall naturally into the above three categories. Although the Darwinian dynamic can be expressed in simple mathematical form as it applies to such primitive life as self-replicating RNA or bacteria, its application to higher organisms requires a more complex treatment. We have indicated the main kinds of complexity that emerge, and how these can be taken into account, in consonance wich current treatments of natural selection in population genetics and evolutionary ecology. By defining the essential features of natural selection, we think we have additionally clarified two specific areas of prior confusion. These are the relationship of thermodynamics to evolution, and the empirical content of Darwin's theory.
2828645|Although many studies treat the causes and consequences of dispersal in mammalian populations, less attention has been given to the individuals that do not leave their birthplaces. Yet natal philopatry, which we define as continued residence on the natal home range past the age of independence from the parents, occurs in virtually all gregarious mammals. We here document its widespread occurrence among solitary species as well. By studying the distribution of natal philopatry across various ecological and life-history regimes we attempt to identify its ultimate causes. The variables that emerge as possibly important include adult turnover rates, habitat saturation, spatial patchiness of resources, advantages of familiarity with the natal home range, and reliance on extensive home range "improvements" such as burrow systems of food caches. The most interesting consequence of natal philopatry is the continued spatial association of kin into adulthood, a prerequisite for many phenomena common to gregarious species. Natal philopatry, however, is considerably more widespread than are social groups, and all mammalian taxa containing gregarious species also include solitary species that exhibit philopatry. These observations suggest that an important part of understanding how complex social groups have arisen is understanding the conditions that have led to natal philopatry.
2828644|The fusion of somatic cells offers unique prospects for combining plant species that cannot be crossed sexually. This review investigates the involvement and consequences for intergeneric somatic hybridization of various types of somatic incompatibility as a phenomenon analogous to incompatibility and incongruity in sexual crosses. From an extensive survey of the literature on plant as well as vertebrate somatic cell fusion, various intracellular processes have been identified and are discussed as operational sites for somatic incompatibility reactions that interfere with the regular development of somatic hybrid cells and plants. The structural and dynamic instability of chromosomes can explain why many intergeneric fusion products have failed to proliferate continuously. The great complexity of the processes involved in the morphological differentiation of a hybrid plant makes heavy demands on the timing and sychronization of regulatory signals, and thus provides sites of action for somatic incompatibility mechanisms. The enforced coesixtence, in a hybrid cell, of the genomes and the cytoplasmic genophores from the two parents suggests that somatic incompatibility also results from genome-plasmon interactions. Functional plant regeneration from hybrid cells unimpaired by somatic incompatibility is required for agricultural uses of somatic hybridization. In contrast, somatic-cell genetical studies on the complementation, expression, and regulation of cellular traits are possible with non-morphogenic lines, and investigations of the chromosomal assignment, linkage, and segregation of relevant genes actually depend upon somatic incompatibility operating in somatic hybrid cells. Various experimental constraints of previous studies of discussed, and areas have been suggested where future investigations are needed for a further analysis and a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying somatic incompatibility.
QRB3007|The acute-phase response (APR) is a systemic response to severe trauma, infection, and cancer, although many of the numerous cytokine-mediated components of the APR are incompletely understood. Some of these components, such as fever, reduced availability of iron and zinc, and nutritional restriction due to anorexia, appear to be stressors capable of causing harm to both the pathogen and the host. We review how the host benefits from differences in susceptibility to stress between pathogens and the host. Pathogens, infected host cells, and neoplastic cells are generally more stressed or vulnerable to additional stress than the host because: a) targeted local inflammation works in synergy with APR stressors; b) proliferation/growth increases vulnerability to stress; c) altered pathogen physiology results in pathogen stress or vulnerability; and d) protective heat shock responses are partially abrogated in pathogens since their responses are utilized by the host to enhance immune responses. Therefore, the host utilizes a coordinated system of endogenous stressors to provide additional levels of defense against pathogens. This model of immune brinksmanship can explain the evolutionary basis for the mutually stressful components of the APR.
QRB2883|Understanding the maintenance of sexual reproduction constitutes a difficult problem for evolutionary biologists because of the immediate costs that sex seems to incur. Typically, general benefits to sex and recombination are investigated that might outweigh these costs. However, several factors can strongly influence the complex balance between costs and benefits of sex; these include constraints on the evolution of asexuality, ecological differentiation, and certain life-history traits. We review these factors and their empirical support for the first time in a unified framework and find that they can reduce the costs of sex, circumvent them, or make them inapplicable. These factors can even tip the scales to a net benefit for sex. The reviewed factors affect species and species groups differently, and we conclude consequently that understanding the maintenance of sex could turn out to be more species-specific than commonly assumed. Interestingly, our study suggests that, in some species, no general benefits to sex and recombination might be needed to understand the maintenance of sex, as in our case study of dandelions.
QRB3525|Male and female homosexuality have substantial prevalence in humans. Pedigree and twin studies indicate that homosexuality has substantial heritability in both sexes, yet concordance between identical twins is low and molecular studies have failed to find associated DNA markers. This paradoxical pattern calls for an explanation. We use published data on fetal androgen signaling and gene regulation via nongenetic changes in DNA packaging (epigenetics) to develop a new model for homosexuality. It is well established that fetal androgen signaling strongly influences sexual development. We show that an unappreciated feature of this process is reduced androgen sensitivity in XX fetuses and enhanced sensitivity in XY fetuses, and that this difference is most feasibly caused by numerous sex-specific epigenetic modifications (epi-marks) originating in embryonic stem cells. These epi-marks buffer XX fetuses from masculinization due to excess fetal androgen exposure and similarly buffer XY fetuses from androgen underexposure. Extant data indicates that individual epi-marks influence some but not other sexually dimorphic traits, vary in strength across individuals, and are produced during ontogeny and erased between generations. Those that escape erasure will steer development of the sexual phenotypes they influence in a gonad-discordant direction in opposite sex offspring, mosaically feminizing XY offspring and masculinizing XX offspring. Such sex-specific epi-marks are sexually antagonistic (SA-epi-marks) because they canalize sexual development in the parent that produced them, but contribute to gonad-trait discordances in opposite-sex offspring when unerased. In this model, homosexuality occurs when stronger-than-average SA-epi-marks (influencing sexual preference) from an opposite-sex parent escape erasure and are then paired with a weaker-than-average de novo sex-specific epi-marks produced in opposite-sex offspring. Our model predicts that homosexuality is part of a wider phenomenon in which recently evolved androgen-influenced traits commonly display gonad-trait discordances at substantial frequency, and that the molecular feature underlying most homosexuality is not DNA polymorphism(s), but epi-marks that evolved to canalize sexual dimorphic development that sometimes carryover across generations and contribute to gonad-trait discordances in opposite-sex descendants.
QRB3629|In the past few decades, sex differences in spatial cognition have often been attributed to adaptation in response to natural selection. A common explanation is that home range size differences between the sexes created different cognitive demands pertinent to wayfinding in each sex and resulted in the evolution of sex differences in spatial navigational ability in both humans and nonhuman mammals. However, the assumption of adaptation as the appropriate mode of explanation was nearly simultaneous with the discovery and subsequent verification of the male superiority effect, even without any substantive evidence establishing a causal role for adaptation. An alternate possibility that the sex difference in cognition is a genetic or hormonal side effect has not been rigorously tested using the comparative method. The present study directly evaluates how well the range hypothesis fits the available data on species differences in spatial ability by use of a phylogenetically based, cross-species, comparative analysis. We find no support for the hypothesis that species differences in home range size dimorphism are positively associated with parallel differences in spatial navigation abilities. The alternative hypothesis that sex differences in spatial cognition result as a hormonal side effect is better supported by the data.
QRB3519|The notion of the biological individual is crucial to studies of genetics, immunology, evolution, development, anatomy, and physiology. Each of these biological subdisciplines has a specific conception of individuality, which has historically provided conceptual contexts for integrating newly acquired data. During the past decade, nucleic acid analysis, especially genomic sequencing and high-throughput RNA techniques, has challenged each of these disciplinary definitions by finding significant interactions of animals and plants with symbiotic microorganisms that disrupt the boundaries that heretofore had characterized the biological individual. Animals cannot be considered individuals by anatomical or physiological criteria because a diversity of symbionts are both present and functional in completing metabolic pathways and serving other physiological functions. Similarly, these new studies have shown that animal development is incomplete without symbionts. Symbionts also constitute a second mode of genetic inheritance, providing selectable genetic variation for natural selection. The immune system also develops, in part, in dialogue with symbionts and thereby functions as a mechanism for integrating microbes into the animal-cell community. Recognizing the holobiontthe multicellular eukaryote plus its colonies of persistent symbiontsas a critically important unit of anatomy, development, physiology, immunology, and evolution opens up new investigative avenues and conceptually challenges the ways in which the biological subdisciplines have heretofore characterized living entities.
QRB3318|The problem of eukaryogenesisthe evolutionary mechanism whereby eukaryotic cells evolved from prokaryotesremains one of the great unsolved mysteries of cell biology, possibly due to the reductionist tendency of most scientists to work only within their subdisciplines. Communication between biologists who conduct research on the nucleus and those working on the cytoskeleton or endomembrane system are sometimes wanting, and yet, all of these quintessentially eukaryotic elements of the cell are interdependent, and are physically associated in many protists as the karyomastigont organellar system: nucleus, one or more basal bodies and flagella, nuclear connector, and Golgi apparatus. Here we suggest a more holistic view of the karyomastigont as not simply an organellar system, but an evolutionary seme, the archaic state of the eukaryotic cell. We also present a scheme whereby the karyomastigont may have dissociated, giving rise in more derived cells to one or more free nuclei and discrete flagellar apparati (akaryomastigonts).
QRB2866|Secondary injury is a term applied to the destructive and self-propagating biological changes in cells and tissues that lead to their dysfunction or death over hours to weeks after the initial insult (the primary injury). In most contexts, the initial injury is usually mechanical. The more destructive phase of secondary injury is, however, more responsible for cell death and functional deficits. This subject is described and reviewed differently in the literature. To biomedical researchers, systemic and tissue-level changes such as hemorrhage, edema, and ischemia usually define this subject. To cell and molecular biologists, secondary injury refers to a series of predominately molecular events and an increasingly restricted set of aberrant biochemical pathways and products. These biochemical and ionic changes are seen to lead to death of the initially compromised cells and healthy cells nearby through necrosis or apoptosis. This latter process is called bystander damage. These viewpoints have largely dominated the recent literature, especially in studies of the central nervous system (CNS), often without attempts to place the molecular events in the context of progressive systemic and tissue-level changes. Here we provide a more comprehensive and inclusive discussion of this topic.
QRB3405|This article examines how both scientists and creationists, as they argue over intelligent design, invoke and quote the fictional character of Sherlock Holmes to support their opposed positions. Rhetorical analysis of Holmes's repeated contributions to the debate reveals not only how the argument for design falls apart, but also how the argument for Darwin compromises itself when following the detective onto shaky logical ground. The sciences and the humanities must work together to combat the corrosive influence of pseudoscientific reasoning on our students and the general public; this article contributes to that joint enterprise.
QRB3097|Many dietary fatty acids (FA) have potent effects on inflammation, which is not only energetically costly, but also contributes to a range of chronic diseases. This presents an evolutionary paradox: Why should the host initiate a costly and damaging response to commonly encountered nutrients? We propose that the immune system has evolved a capacity to modify expenditure on inflammation to compensate for the effects of dietary FA on gut microorganisms. In a comprehensive literature review, we show that the body preferentially upregulates inflammation in response to saturated FA that promote harmful microbes. In contrast, the host often reduces inflammation in response to the many unsaturated FA with antimicrobial properties. Our model is supported by contrasts involving shorter-chain FA and omega-3 FA, but with less consistent evidence for
2816897|The Soviet biophysical literature has been the subject of an extensive and critical review. The subject matter has been subdivided into sections on techniques, effect sof ionizing radiation, effects of light radiation, photosynthesis, effects of ultrasonics, paramagnetic resonance, microorganisms, viruses, cell structure, proteins, nucleic acids, and muscle, nerve, vision and taste. A bibliography of 520 entries is included. The work which has been reviewed covers the best and worst in Soviet science. In general those experiments and concepts in fields that are close to physics are excellent. Examples are the work in paramagnetic resonance, energy transfer mechanism in photosynthesis systems, the properties of structural proteins such as procollagen, and the coding properties of DNA. The average paper concerned with more biological subject matter, such as microorganisms, viruses, and proteins, seems outdated in concept and lacking in controlled experiments or adequate data. Recent reviews (which contain mostly references to Western literature) indicate that Soviet scientists are well acquainted with in Western countries and that the role of DNA as a carrier of genetic information is now fully appreciated.
2816898|The widely accepted idea that melanin pigment in human skin protects against sunlight, and that this has bearing upon adaptation to life in the tropics and the distribution of races, is a examined in terms of its physical and Physiological aspects. Regarded in such terms the concept appears to have little merit. It is concluded that whereas the pigment may have a slight adaptive value as regards some aspects of the organism-environment relationship, it may be non-adaptive as regards others; and the respective values may depend upon various complicating factors of the environment. Moreover, the distribution of races according to skin color does not appear to conform well to what would be expected from the spectral distribution of sunlight.
2816899|The evolutionary significance of the adaptation of flowers to distinct classes of pollinators is considered and an attempt is made to assess the frequency with the mutual adaptations of flowers and particular night-flying flower-visitors have become so close as to provide reproductive isolation for the plant from those adapted to other visitors. Probably the obligate relationship shown by Yuccas represents a nearly unique situation which may have reduced rather than promoted rates of speciation in both the Yuccas and the Yucca moths to which they are adapted. A description is given to the general characteristics of flowers which are adapted to pollination by evening, night, and early morning visitors (including birds). The flowers of many tropical and sub-tropical trees are pollinated by bats, and two flower-types are discussed in this context. The restriction of bat pollination to the tropics and adjacent subtropics appears to result from a lack of suitable plant material in temperate regions. Adaptations to combinations of flower visitors are considered in relation to risks of failure in seed-production. Such "bridging" may also have considerable significance in the evolution of adaptation to new pollinators. Finally, it is concluded that, as yet, there is no evidence that adaptation to any crepuscular or nocturnal pollinators is sufficiently complete to initiate speciation, although the partial reproductive isolation which it provides may complement the effects of other more primary factors in the maintenance of specific distinctions.
2816651|A genetic analysis of pathogenic and antigenic specificity of Puccinia sorghi on four dominant alleles at the Rp locus and on two recessive alleles for resistance in lines of corn permits a theoretical interpretation of genetic control of host-obligate parasite interaction in the light of recent biochemical genetical concepts. The dominant alleles at the Rp locus condition resistance (incompatibility manifested as necrotic fleck) and score a varying spectrum of pathogenic types in the fungus. Each allele is differentially vulnerable (compatible to infection in varying degrees) to one or more pathogenic types of the fungus. The four alleles are complementary in varying dimension, i.e., both quanlitatively and quantitatively, in conditioning rust reaction. The alleles apparently do not influence antigen production in the pathogen significantly. The gene structural analysis of the Rp locus in presently impractical because of the paucity of mutant markers in this region of chromosome X. The data on inheritance of pathogenecity and serotypes in the dicaryon of P. sorghi indicate a complex genic mechanism not resoluble by the application of simple Mendelian concepts alone. The four urediospore clones used were heterozygous for pathogenecity and serotypes. Analysis indicated an indeterminate inheritance with a continuous potential for variation. The genetic unit of complementary function and specificity in a dicaryon line was not constant on the host alleles but became reduced or expanded in complementarity by genetic recombination. The present data do not indicate the fraction of the total genotype that is utilized in conditioning complementarity of fit to a specific differential allele in the host. The use of the genetic linkage map of the pathogenic genotype is impractical in these dicaryotic, obligate parasites; therefore, immunochemical and biochemical methods must be developed to explore the magnitude, structure, and function of the pathogenic locus in P. sorghi and the Rp locus in the host. At this stage of investigation a framework of ideas intended to relate the data on rust reaction to chromosome organization and gene function must be theoretical. The critical review of recent investigations on the biochemical genetics of microorganisms may indicate where to probe for additional evidence on the nauture of the reactions and their genetic regulation.
2816650|Information on the experimental control of the phenomena of zoospore and gamete formation are summarized along with current theories of their underlying physiology. No theory has yet been proposed which satisfactorily incorporates all the data available on the effects of light, temperature, carbon dioxide, oxygen, and external nutrients. Algal culture methods should profit from the adoption of synchronizing techniques now available for algae, and physiological studies of altered cell development should examine more thoroughly the roles of trace elements, vitamins and hormones, red in contrast to far-red light, and the biochemical changes in cell composition during growth.
2817590|The growth, differentiation, and maintenance of the sympathetic nerve cells were found to depend upon a specific protein factor.-The chemical, biological, and immunological properties of this factor are discussed in connection with the recent findings of the presence of the growth factor in the sympathetic nerve cells of a variety of mammals, including man.
2817591|Dormant ascospores of Neurospora remain quiescent and metabolize at a slow rate unless activated by exposure to high temperatures or to chemicals, including certain furans, pyrroles, thiophenes, or organic solvents. As a result of this treatment, a step-wise series of changes is initiated, resultingin in a greatly increased respiratory rate, a loss in thermal resistance, and a rise in the respiratory quotient. Up to 30 minutes after dormancy is broken, deactivation by incubation at 4
2817592|Highly purified preparations of RNA prepared from mature ovarian eggs of Rana catesbeiana contain at least two gross fractions of RNA: one that is soluble in cold 0.5 M perchloric acid (acid-soluble RNA) and another that is insoluble in the same concentration of acid (acid-insoluble RNA). Each Comprises roughly 50 per cent of the total RNA. The two RNA fractions are distinct not only in solubility characteristics but in nucleotide composition as well. A procedure has been developed for the mass isolation of structures morphologically similar to the nucleoli of mature ovarian eggs. These structures contain no DNA, from 8 to 17 per cent RNA, and a large amount of protein. The distribution of P
2814832|Current theories of cytokinesis are reviewed and critically analyzed. The expanding membrane theory and the theory of astral cleavage are shown to be unsatisfactory. Mechanisms which appear to have general validity are: (1) rounding up of cells as a result of the contraction of an actomysin-like substance in the cortex; (2) relaxation of polar cortex permitting continued equatorial contraction to cause furrowing; (3) new membrane formation. It is possible to describe cytokinesis in all cells, plant and animal, in terms of varying dominance of these factors in different cells.
2814833|This review discusses the origin of the regeneration blastema, and particularly the importance of the skin, the skeleton, and other tissues in the process of regeneration. Also considered are reactions of regenerates to irradiation, including the effect of partial irradiation and the regression of regenerates. Especial attention is given to regeneration under abnormal conditions and to abnormal regeneration. The final section is concerned with the problem of stimulation of regeneration and the possibilities of regeneration in mammals.
2825958|Systems models make possible an examination of the machinery by which information is accumulated and exchanged in biological and cultural evolution. Indeterminancy is revealed which obscures our perpectives on the growth of humanity.
2825957|Plant cells in general have a capacity to discriminate between self and non-self. The case for cell recognition in plants is made primarily on evidence from pollen-stigma interactions and stem-grafting experiments. Recognition results in a defined response and may be mediated by surface or secreted determinants, likely to be protein or glycoprotein in nature. Mediators may include lectins, cell wall components such as arabinogalactan proteins, arabinoxylans, and allergens. Antigenic cell determinants may provide an alternative to the traditional morphological approach for the typing of plant cells.
2826580|In this review of the experimental investigation of socially facilitated behavior, the first point to be stressed is that the therm should be used descriptively, without any causal implications. In view of the diversity of the phenomena, it is likely that the mechanisms underlying socially facilitated behavior will vary, not only between species but also within a species in different situations. Functionally, socially facilitated behavior is likely to be more important than environmental factors in attaining group synchrony, since the former provides the fine-scale adjustments to the environmental control of synchrony. By maintaining the group, socially facilitated behavior will thus tend to optimize exploitation of resources and protection from predators, the two most commonly proposed advantages of group living. Socially facilitated behavior may also promote reproductive synchrony, which increases the chances for survival of the offspring. Current experimental techniques in these studies leave much to be desired. There seems to be little to recommend further demonstrations of instances of socially facilitated behavior without some attempt to record the details of the interactions between the individuals or to elucidate the underlying causal mechanisms. Because a social animal is "distressed" by isolation, no simple comparison of the rate at which a particular act occurs in a social situation with that in isolation will be very informative. A more global view of the situations in which socially facilitated behavior can occur is thought to be needed; the investigation of stimulus variables could complement that of motivational, ontogenetic, or social causal influences. A careful consideration of the social interactions involved in socially facilitated behavior and its causation and function is essential if these studies are to contribute toward an understanding of the phenomenon in a way more closely related to the natural life of the species.
2826581|A theoretical review of the physical constraints on cursorial animals provides a list of the morphological correlates of superior running ability, with emphasis on osteological features. This list includes the following adaptations: relatively long limbs; small forelimbs (bipeds only); freely rotating scapula (quadrupeds only); hinge-like joints; short and massive proximal limb elements; long and slender distal limb elements; radius-ulna and tibia-fibula which are reduced to single elements; manus and pes with pronounced median symmetery; digitigrade to unguligrade stance; interlocked or fused metapodials; reduced or lost inner and outer digits, and snap ligaments sometimes present. These adaptations are ubiquitous among phylogenetically diverse animals which run and may be regarded as inevitable in any cursor. Theoretical arguments predict a lower speed potential for very large and very small animals, and this conclusion is supported by empirical data which point to an optimum body mass of about 50 kg for a cursor. By utilizing these findings and a system of four levels of running ability (graviportal, mediportal, subcursorial, cursorial), it is possible to evaluate the running potential of dinosaurs. Quadrupedal dinosaurs had fewer cursorial features than bipeds, and large bipeds had fewer than small bipeds. Sauropods and stegosaurs were graviportal; ankylosaurs and large ceratopsians were low to intermediate grade mediportal; prosauropods were high-grade mediportal; large ornithopods were subcursorial; and large theropods were subcursorial to cursorial. Small ceratopsians were dynamic bipeds and were high-grade subcursorial. Small bipedal ornithischians and small theropods were cursorial and were the fastest of the dinosaurs, but were probably not as fast as the best modern runners.
2826196|An integrative theory is proposed in which environmental carcinogenesis is viewed as a process by which the genetic control of cell division and differentiation is altered by carcinogens. In this theory, carcinogens include physical, chemical, and viral "mutagens," as well as chemical and viral gene modulators. Existing explanations of carcinogenesis can be considered either as somatic mutation theories or as epigenetic theories. Evidence seems to support the hypothesis that both mutations and epigenetic processes are components of carcinogenesis. The mutational basis of cancer is suported by the clonal nature of tumors, the mutagenicity of most carcinogens, high mutation frequencies in cells of cancer-prone human fibroblasts lacking DNA repair enzymes, the correlation of in vitro DNA damage and in vitro mutation and transformation frequencies with in vivo tumorigenesis, age-related incidences of various hereditary tumors, and the correlation between photoreactivation of DNA damage and the biological amelioration of UV-induced neoplasms. Since both mutagens and gene modulators can be carcinogenic it may be that carcinogens affect genes which control cell division. An Integration of the mutation and epigenetic theories of cancer with the "two-stage" theory and Comings's general theory of carcinogenesis is proposed. This integrative theory postulates that carcinogens can affect regulatory genes which control a series of "transforming genes." A general hypothesis is advanced that involves a common mechanism of somatic mutagenesis via error-prone repair of DNA damage which links carcinogenesis, teratogenesis, atherosclerosis and aging. Various concepts are presented to provide a framework for evaluating the scientific, medical, and social implications of cancer.
2826195|Group selection is defined as that process of genetic change which is caused by the differential extinction or proliferation of groups of organisms. A very large proportion of the literature pertaining to group selection consists of theoretical papers; the genetic problems of group selection have been addressed from many different mathematical viewpoints. The general conclusion has been that, although group selection is possible, it cannot override the effects of individual selection within populations except for a highly restricted set of parameter values. Since it is unlikely that conditions in natural populations would fall within the bounds imposed by the models, group selection, by and large, has been considered an insignificant force for evolutionary change. These theoretical conclusions and the assumptions from which they have been derived are reexamined in the light of recent empirical studies of group selection with laboratory populations of the flour beetle, Tribolium (Wade, 1976, 1977). It is shown that the models have a number of assumptions in common which are inherently unfavorable to the operation of group selection. Alternative assumptions derived from the empirical results are suggested and discussed in the hope that they will stimulate further theoretical and empirical study of this controversial subject.
2823461|Even among similar-sized organisms a disparity often exists between different species' relative postnatal growth rates. Some authors have interpreted these differences in an adaptive light. That is, some organisms may grow faster than others because it is adaptive to do so (e.g., Lack, 1968). Other investigators have suggested that much of the interspecific variability in growth rates is due to differences in physiological constraints upon growth. That is, all organisms may be growing as fast as possible, but the physiological limits of growth are set at different levels in different organisms (e.g., Ricklefs, 1969, 1973). In the present study, the postnatal growth rates of a variety of reptiles, birds, mammals, and a few fish are compared, in an effort to find evolutionary differences between these vertebrate classes. This analysis suggests that the evolution of endothermy was a key factor in lifting physiological constraints upon growth rates. The maximum observed growth rates of endotherms (except for some marsupials and anthropoid primates) are at least an order of magnitude greater than the maximum growth rate of any ectotherm. The growth rate of altricial land birds is about twice that of most eutherian mammals, whether altricial or precocial. Most nidifugous birds grow at about the same rate as eutherians. Among mammals, some of the seals display the fastest growth rates of all. Other relatively fast-growing mammals include the artiodactyls, perissodactyls, cetaceans, canids, and lagomorphs. Rodents, prosimians, bats, and other seal species, and most other fissiped carnivores grow at more moderate rates. The slowest growing mammals are the marsupials and anthropoid primates. Elephants, bears, and monotremes also display relatively slow growth. Next, interordinal and interspecific differences in postnatal growth rates within the mammals and birds are explored for any evidence of adaptive "fine tuning" of the growth rate to an animal's environment. The results of this analysis, although not without exception, support the notion that growth rate is adapted to certain features of an animal's environment. In particular, the feeding requirements of an animal, its infant mortality rate, and the availability of food to its parents are sufficient to account for much of the interspecific variation in growth rates among birds and mammals. Ricklefs' (1969) mathematical model of growth is extended by allowing infant mortality rates to be "growth-rate"-dependent. With this adjustment, an optimum intermediate growth rate may exist, the magnitude of which will be altered in an empirically appropriate direction with changes in these environmental parameters. The statistical relatioships between postnatal growth rate and litter size, gestation period, relative brain size, relative birth weight, and milk protein levels are examined for mammals as a whole and for particular subgroups. Birth weight is the independent variable which accounts for most of the residual variance in growth rate (after accounting for adult weight) in most of these comparisons. Altricial mammals grow at statistically the same rate as precocial mammals. The selective factors influencing postnatal growth rates appear therefore to be somewhat different than those that influence the maturity of the young at birth.
2823460|In this review, we analyse data pertinent to the origins of specific immune recognition by lymphocytes. The phenomena of immunity in invertebrates and the cells that might be involved in these processes are considered. We conclude that the existence of vertebrate-type immunocompetent lymphocytes in invertebrates in not yet proven. All vertebrates apparently possess immunologically competent lymphocytes, and the following conclusions may be drawn: (1) Specific antigen recognition by lymphocytes of all vertebrates appears to be mediated by membrane-bound immunoglobulins. These immunoglobulins are, in all probability, distinct from secreted, serum immunoglobulins (antibodies), although serum and surface immunoglobulins share combining sites for antigen which are formed of variable regions. (2) There is evidence for similar functional divisons among the immune systems of all vertebrates, as reflected in the results of anatomical, functional, and physicochemical investigations of lymphocytes from animals as diverse as fish and mammals.
3036809|Phenetic clustering, the forming of hierarchical nonoverlapping groups strictly according to degree of similarity, has serious shortcoming as it is commonly used in biology. When used as a method for estimating phylogeny, phenetic clustering rests on a questionable assumption of correspodence between similarity and recency of common ancestry. This compromises its ability to reconstruct the correct branching sequence when rates of evolutionary divergence are unequal among lineages, as well as causing it to obscure rate differences even when the branching sequence is reconstructed correctly. When used as a method for analysing patterns of geographic variation and genetic continuity among populations, phenetic clustering rests on a questionable assumption of correspondence between similarity and degree of genetic continuity. This compromises its ability to identify genetically continuous units when their component populations are differentiated, and combined with its sensivity to uneven geographic sampling, it can cause the method to yield misleading results if sampling patterns are not taken into consideration. Finally, even when used simply as a method for analysing patterns of similarity without regard to causal processes, phenetic clustering rests on a questionable assumption of nested hierarchical structure. This compromises its ability to represent similarity relationships accurately when those relationships exhibit a significant nonhierarchical component. For all of the common biological applications of phenetic clustering, there exist alternative analytical methods that do not suffer from the problems associated with phenetic clustering. The problems in question result not from the phenetic (similarity) data themselves, which often can be analysed in more appropriate ways, but from the phenetic clustering procedure. At least some of the limitations of phenetic clustering as well as the advantages of alternative methods have been known for many years. Advocacy of phenetic clustering at the expense of more appropriate methods can be explained as the result of constraints imposed by an implicit assumption of nested hierarchies that was part of the taxonomic context within which the methods were developed.
3036810|Inferences about macroevolutionary processes have traditionally depended solely on the fossil record, but such inferences can be strengthened by also considering the shapes of the phylogenetic trees that link extant taxa. The realization that phylogenies reflect macroevolutionary processes has led to a growing literature of theoretical and comparative studies of tree shape. Two aspects of tree shape are particularly important: tree balance and the distribution of branch lenghts. We examine and evaluate recent developments in and connections between these two aspects, and suggest directions for future research. Studies of tree shape promise useful and powerful tests of macroevolutionary hypotheses. With appropriate further research, tree shape may help us detect mass extinctions and adaptive radiations, measure continuos variation in speciation and extinction rates, and associate changes in these rates with ecological or biogeographical causes. The usefulness of tree shape extends well beyond the study of macroevolution. We discuss applications to other areas of biology, including coevolution, phylogenetic inference, population biology, and developmental biology.
3037608|Emlen's (1995) paper "An evolutionary theory of the family" reviewed existing ideas about the nature of family systems and the reasons why they have evolved in certain animal species. His theorizing led him to propose 15 predictions about how family systems function, based on favorable evidence from various species, mostly birds. While he suggested that these predictions can be applied to the human case, he himself did not attempt to do so. We consider the applicability of Emlen's 15 predictions to the study of human family systems, and find that several aspects of the life history and ecology of Homo sapiens require that they be modified. These considerations include: (1) the importance of intragroup solidarity in the context of intergroup competition: unlike in many other species where dispersal constraints arise from food or breeding site shortages, the primary pressure driving human sociality seems to be competition from other human groups; (2) the complex nature of exchange and reciprocity in human society: reciprocal altruism in particular is integral to human social interaction and leads to a particularly high degree of non-nepotistic helping behavior; and (3) the implications of menopause and the existence of potentially dominant, postreproductive helpers: helpers of this sort have little incentive to disperse or to encourage off-spring to disperse, thus greatly increasing family stability.
3036336|The evolution of intrinsic growth rate has received less attention than other life history traits, and has been studied differently in plants, homoiotherms, and poikilotherms. The benefits of rapid growth are obvious, so the problem is to explain the costs and tradeoffs that cause organisms to grow below their physiological maximum. Four prevailing themes emerge from the literature: (1) slow growth is adaptive for dealing with nutrient stress, (2) the tradeoff between growth rate and development limits growth in species that require mature function early in life, (3) rapid growth evolves when a minimum size must be reached quickly, such as for sexual maturation or overwintering, and (4) rapid growth may evolve to compensate for slowed growth owing to environmental conditions. Evidence for each of these themes is detailed for plants, homoiotherms, and poikilotherms. In addition, empirical evidence is reviewed for costs of rapid growth, including increased fluctuating asymmetry, reduced immune capacity, and reduced ability to respond to environmental stress.
3036335|A cell's decision whether to undergo apoptosis (cell suicide) is examined here from an Adaptationist perspective, rather than a mechanistic one. External and internal inputs to the cell's protein-based information processing network are used in making this decision, with the cell factoring in its replaceability. A system in which each cell takes primary responsibility for deciding its own fate has great adaptive value because it harnesses each cell's self-knowledge rather than waiting for external cues to be recognized by other cells. Cell self-destruction can be an important selective mechanism, potentially leading to better performance of tissues over time. However, reliance on cells to monitor themselves has a flaw, since cells may incur selfish mutations that impair their apoptotic responsibility. The tight control exerted over somatic cells serves to check selfish genes involved in neoplasia and viral infections. Germ cells appear to be similarly monitored, both by other germ cells and by supporting follicular or Sertoli cells, thus maintaining the advantages offered by an apoptotic system. The adaptationist approach views the limited replacement of neurons and cardiac myocytes as likely to have net survival value. The linkage of these cell into a network with their neighbors throughout a lifetime allows for a precisely functioning team of cells expected to compensate for gradual declines in individual cell functionality. Replacement of apoptotic cells with naive cells might decrease brain functionality and might risk upsetting the conduction of cardiac impulses. The evolutionary viewpoint lends itself to new hypotheses, but only the boldest speculator would have predicted a system in which cells are given primary responsibility for deciding whether to kill themselves when they deem it beneficial to the organism.
3037381|Patterns of reproduction in African bats can be compared in three taxon-based groups: fruit bats (Megachiroptera), freetailed bats (Microchiroptera: Molossidae) and the nonmolossid Microchiroptera. In the fruit bats and nonmolossid Microchiroptera there is a trend from either seasonal or aseasonal polyestry, with prolonged or continuous spermatogenesis in the tropics, towards seasonal monestry and seasonal spermatogenesis at more temperate latitudes. Reproductive delays (sperm storage, delayed implantation and delayed development) are rare at tropical latitudes, but are the norm in the nonmolossid Microchiroptera away from the tropics. The molossids are moslty polyestrous at tropical and temperate latitudes, although the duration of the reproductive season decreases with increasing latitude. The molossids appear to have escaped the constraints that affect reproduction of the other Microchiroptera. We propose that this may be due to their flight capabilities and foraging behavior, which give them access to year-round food, and to the thermal characteristics of their roosts. We suggest that the ancestral reproductive pattern of the Chiroptera was probably aseasonal on polyestry, as seen in extant tropical species, and therefore that reproductive cycles have evolved from the polyestrous to the monestrous to the monestrous condition. Short periods of reproductive delay occur in some species of tropical bats; we suggest that these reproductive delays originally were not adaptations to temperate latitudes but rather to the long dry season, which is characteristic of African tropical latitudes. With the move away from the tropics, selective pressures, acting on the timing of lactation and spermatogenesis, would have ensured that these preocesses continued to occur in the warm wet season, and that the length of the reporductive delay increased. This model accommodates the probable evolutionary origin of bats and links the evolution and development of reproductive delays to the differences in climate that occur with changes in latitude. There is evidence that mate choice and sperm competition may be important to modern bats, but we believe that they need not be invoked as causal factors in the evolution of reproductive delays, which can be adequately explained using purely energetic arguments.
3037382|Honey bees (Apis mellifera L.), native to Eurasia and Africa, have been introduced to most of the rest of the world. Many plant species are used by introduced honey bees, which suggests a high potential for disturbance of native plant/pollinator relationships. Few species are used intensively, however, thus decreasing the opportunity for disturbance. Pollination studies show that honey bees are effective pollinators of some native plants and less effective pollinators of others; they also reduce floral resources in some species with little or no pollination. Data are insufficient to show whether honey bee foraging on native plants significantly alters pollen and gene flow, but unusual foraging behavior by honey bees is not evident compared to many other pollinators. Honey bees do not physically damage plants; they are also unlikely to increase hybridization of native flora. Pollination by honey bees probably contributes little to the success of most weeds. Experiments have not shown competition for nesting sites between honey bees and native fauna. The presence of honey bees, however, alters the foraging behavior and abundance of some native fauna on flowers, but no studies have shown detrimental impacts of honey bees on population abundances of any native animals or plants. Anecdotal and quantitative reports of increased honey bee abundances on flowers compared with native fauna are often confounded with habitat changes induced by man.
2820539|General systems behavior theory is concerned with seven levels of living systems-cell, organ, organism, group, organization, society, and supranational system. The following article is an exposition of the basic concepts in this integrative theoretical approach. It is a condensation of a more detailed statement (Miller, 1965a; 1965b; 1965c). The second article is an analysis in terms of this conceptual system of present knowledge concerning one level of living system-the organism. In order to emphasize the cross-level formal identities among levels of living systems, a major consideration of general behavior systems theory, this article follows exactly the same outline, with identical subheadings and section numbers, as other articles written by the author. These deal with the lower levels of living systems-cell and organ (Miller, 1971a)-as well as higher levels-group (Miller, 1971b), organization (Miller, 1972), society, and supranational system. (All the articles will be published together as chapters of the author's forthcoming book, Living Systems.) The primary intent of this article, in addition to its analysis of the content it covers, is to show that the structures and processes of organisms and of living systems at all the levels are directly comparable. Since anatomists and physiologists are usually laymen in organization theory or international relations, psychologists are commonly laymen in economics, and social scientists are ordinarily laymen in cellular biology, all parts of the book, including the two following articles, are necessarily written for intelligent laymen rather than experts, even though the articles deal with many technical topics. Some statements in them will seem to experts to be too elementary to be worth repeating. If a fact is fundamental and may not be known to specialists in other fields it is stated here, even if it is elementary to the experts. The complex division of labor of modern science, often characterized by pluralistic insularity, requires this. The multitude of detailed and specialized experiments and studies that have been carried out provide the substance of the scientific investigation of organisms. Their findings constitute the trees. But an overview of these results and of the relationships among them-a view of the forest-is also essential. Such a telescopic rather than a microscopic view may suggest the proper balance for research on various aspects of organisms and clarify the priorities for future efforts. The Following articles view organisms broadly. They deal with all living systems at this level-protistans, fungi, and plants, as well as animals. Why such a range? To make manifest the continuity or organismic life in structure, process, and history (including evolution). To demonstrate how structure and process go together, so that anatomists, physiologists, and psychologists undestand the common task they share and how each field can enrich the others. Most of the ideas presented in these articles are not new even though the conceptual integration is original with the author. The concepts are derived from many aspects of science and have been developed by many workers, including various former associates of the author at the Universities of Chicago and Michigan, and systems scientists in many other places. The articles necessarily select for discussion only a few researches out of the vast published repertoire, and this selection has necessarily been arbitrary. Experts in each special field might agree on other studies as more important. Some of the author's statements may be wrong and his analysis ill advised. It so he would appreciate corrections-it is hard to cover such a wide range and still make no errors. The constant reference in the second article to cross-level hypotheses stated in the first article has the purpose of showing that propositions possibly valid at other levels may also apply to organism. At each level there are scientists who apply system theory in their investigations. They are systems theorists but not necessarily general systems theorists. They are general systems theorists only if they accept the more daring and controversial position that-though every living system and every level is obviously unique-there are important formal identities of large generality across levels. Such cross-level similarities can potentially be evaluated quantitatively, applying the same model to data collected at two or more levels. This possibility is the chief reason why the author has used the same outline with identically numbered sections to analyze the present knowledge about each of the seven levels of living systems. The following survey of what is known about organisms as systems, therefore, is to be read as a single segment of a larger, integrated whole.
2820538|General systems behavior theory is concerned with seven levels of living systems-cell, organ, organism, group, organization, society, and supranational system. The following article is an exposition of the basic concepts in this integrative theoretical approach. It is a condensation of a more detailed statement (Miller, 1965a; 1965b; 1965c). The second article is an analysis in terms of this conceptual system of present knowledge concerning one level of living system-the organism. In order to emphasize the cross-level formal identities among levels of living systems, a major consideration of general behavior systems theory, this article follows exactly the same outline, with identical subheadings and section numbers, as other articles written by the author. These deal with the lower levels of living systems-cell and organ (Miller, 1971a)-as well as higher levels-group (Miller, 1971b), organization (Miller, 1972), society, and supranational system. (All the articles will be published together as chapters of the author's forthcoming book, Living Systems.) The primary intent of this article, in addition to its analysis of the content it covers, is to show that the structures and processes of organisms and of living systems at all the levels are directly comparable. Since anatomists and physiologists are usually laymen in organization theory or international relations, psychologists are commonly laymen in economics, and social scientists are ordinarily laymen in cellular biology, all parts of the book, including the two following articles, are necessarily written for intelligent laymen rather than experts, even though the articles deal with many technical topics. Some statements in them will seem to experts to be too elementary to be worth repeating. If a fact is fundamental and may not be known to specialists in other fields it is stated here, even if it is elementary to the experts. The complex division of labor of modern science, often characterized by pluralistic insularity, requires this. The multitude of detailed and specialized experiments and studies that have been carried out provide the substance of the scientific investigation of organisms. Their findings constitute the trees. But an overview of these results and of the relationships among them-a view of the forest-is also essential. Such a telescopic rather than a microscopic view may suggest the proper balance for research on various aspects of organisms and clarify the priorities for future efforts. The Following articles view organisms broadly. They deal with all living systems at this level-protistans, fungi, and plants, as well as animals. Why such a range? To make manifest the continuity or organismic life in structure, process, and history (including evolution). To demonstrate how structure and process go together, so that anatomists, physiologists, and psychologists undestand the common task they share and how each field can enrich the others. Most of the ideas presented in these articles are not new even though the conceptual integration is original with the author. The concepts are derived from many aspects of science and have been developed by many workers, including various former associates of the author at the Universities of Chicago and Michigan, and systems scientists in many other places. The articles necessarily select for discussion only a few researches out of the vast published repertoire, and this selection has necessarily been arbitrary. Experts in each special field might agree on other studies as more important. Some of the author's statements may be wrong and his analysis ill advised. It so he would appreciate corrections-it is hard to cover such a wide range and still make no errors. The constant reference in the second article to cross-level hypotheses stated in the first article has the purpose of showing that propositions possibly valid at other levels may also apply to organism. At each level there are scientists who apply system theory in their investigations. They are systems theorists but not necessarily general systems theorists. They are general systems theorists only if they accept the more daring and controversial position that-though every living system and every level is obviously unique-there are important formal identities of large generality across levels. Such cross-level similarities can potentially be evaluated quantitatively, applying the same model to data collected at two or more levels. This possibility is the chief reason why the author has used the same outline with identically numbered sections to analyze the present knowledge about each of the seven levels of living systems. The following survey of what is known about organisms as systems, therefore, is to be read as a single segment of a larger, integrated whole.
2822621|Trichomes occur in a multitude of forms and sizes. Although they have been used widely for taxonomic purposes, their adaptive significance has been all but ignored by the evolutionist and ecologist. It is clear that trichomes play a role in plant defense, especially with regard to phytophagous insects. In numerous species there is a negative correlation between trichome density and insect feeding and oviposition responses, and the nutrition of larvae. Specialized hooked trichomes may impale adults or larvae as well. Trichome may also complement the chemical defense of a plant by possessing glands which exude terpenes, phenolics, alkaloids or other substances which are olfactory or gustatory repellents. In essence, glandular trichomes afford an outer line of chemical defense by advertising the presence of "noxious" compounds. In some groups of plants, protection against large mammals is achieved by the presence of stinging trichomes. Intraspecific variation for trichome type and density is known in many species, and often is clinal in accordance with ecographic parameters. The presence of such correlations does not imply that differences in predator pressure are the causal factors, although this may indeed be the case.
2820653|This review concerns recent experimental information in areas of animal cell molecular biology which are relevant to the mechanism of gene regulation. New data regarding interspersion and clustering of repetitive sequence elements in DNA are considered. Molecular characteristics of animal structural genes and mRNAs are discussed, with particular reference to the frequency of structural gene sequences, mRNA turnover, and the interpretation of dipteran complementation groups. The molecular characteristics of nuclear RNAs, the primary transcription products, are reviewed. Evidence for transcription level regulation is summarized and the relation of nuclear and mRNA examined. The protein activator branch of the Britten-Davidson model for gene regulations is further developed and considered in ligh of current knowledge.
2820652|Early embryogenesis in higher animals proceeds through a series of complex morphogenetic movements followed by intercellular communications sufficiently sophisticated that most groups of cells learn their positions and their fates before physical evidence for differentiation can be detected. It has been assumed that molecular events at the cell surface are initially responsible for the recognition and communication between cell and environment in these systems, but the nature of these molecular events has been totally obscure. This review presents the argument that recognition and communication may result from interactions between cell surface glycosyltransferases and their cell surface glycosyl acceptors. If two cells possess surfaces enzymes and appropriate substrates, and if these are prohibited from interacting with each other on a single cell surface, then enzyme-substrate binding will occur between these two cells when they make contact. This relationship would account for intercellular recognition. By controlling the availability of the necessary sugar donor or the required cation, cells could control the degree to which these complexes undergo catalysis. If catalysis should take place, then the cells will have changed each other's surface carbohydrates. This, in turn, could initiate intracellular changes and might account for communication. Evidence for this model comes from studies on normal and malignant cells in culture, adhesive recognition between embryonic cells, organ culture of embryonic tissues, whole embryos, platelet aggregation, and clearance of serum glycoproteins by the liver.
2820544|The balance of nature has been a background assumption in natural history since antiquity, but even to the present it has seldom been closely studied. The idea of a balance of nature emerged, but only implicity, in antiquity. During the 17th century, with an increased knowledge of natural history, the idea became a functional assumption, but within a theological rather than ecological context. In the 18th century Linnaeus defined the concept and attempted to make it the foundation of an ecological science. However, it remained tied to theology and was elaborated without critical examination. The existence of agricultural pests, the occasional occurrence of plagues of animals, and the possibility of species having become extinct were kinds of evidence which would have been difficult to reconcile with contemporary concepts. Lamarck was one of the few who perceived some anomaly, and he attempted to save the old concept by arguing that fossils represented early forms of existing species rather than extinct species. His ideas were not widely accepted. Wallace found fault with the Linnaean concept, but it was only a passing thought which he never published. Darwin attempted to assimilate the balanced-of-nature concept into his description of natural selection, but without exploring the inconsistencies between the Linnacean concept and his theory. As other naturalists shifted their interpretations of nature from static to evolving, few of them appreciated the need to change their understanding of the balance of nature accordingly. Some naturalists and ecologists who have thought seriously about balance of nature have postulated somewhat mystical supraorganismic concepts. These, like the general concepts, arose in antiquity, but unlike the general concepts they have won only limited acceptance. Balance-of-nature concepts apparently have receded in importance with the rise of ecological specialization, probably because ecologists have developed more precise concepts of productivity and ecosystem can serve about the same explanatory functions.
2820541|Control of growth and development is examined from the viewpoint of three groups of phenomena characteristic of monocotyledons and related to (1) sheathing nature of the leaf, (2) lack of secondary growth in most species, and (3) presence of a unique cambium in some species. Some recent experimental investigations in these groups are reviewed, and tropical examples are stressed.
2820543|Long-distance transport in system and phloem of stems of arborescent monocotyledons takes place in primary tissues which must function throughout the life of the plant. Even though the vascular system of the stem forms a complex network, accidental embolism of xylem vessels cannot spread much, if it occurs anywhere, because vessels of cross connections ("bridges") are of limited lenght. The path of phloem transport of "C-labeled sugar has been plotted in a small palm stem with the shuttle microscope through a series of approximately 10,000 autoradiographs of transverse sections. It followed the complex vascular pattern which had been elucidated earlier with cinematographic analysis.
2820540|Epiphytism is predicated on the possession of a disparate array of adaptive features involving many aspects of the plant body and all phases of the life cycle. Among the most basic of these adaptations are those designed to enhance salt procurement and to increase the efficiency of neral use. Mineral procurement and nutrient economy in the Bromeliaceae and the Orchidaceae are accomplished in the forest canopy by at least three strategies, each differing from one or both of the others in terms of the organs of absorption involved, the relative quantities of certain mineral nutrients accumulated, and the sources and quality of the mineral supply. Neither atmospheric bromeliads nor xerophytic orchid epiphytes have been able to modify those aspects of their form and function which increase water and nutrient economy, without also accepting a reduced performance for certain other vital functions such as sexual reproduction and photosynthesis. The resultant slow rates of growth, small stature, and lowered reproductive potential can be tolerated by extreme epiphytes becase neither competition nor possibly predation, is severe in the arid forest canopy. Although several strategies have been employed to succeed in the dry epiphytic biotope, few families are involved in extreme epiphytism. The barrier between terrestrial life and full epiphytism may have been crossed only by those few taxa which, as terrestrials, came to possess a large and fortuitous combination of unrelated preadaptations. These preadaptations, several of which have not been well defined, probably assumed increased ecological significance while the evolutionary lines possessing them moved from the ground up the forest profile or directly into the drier zones of the canopy. Because it is influenced by so many aspects of the plant body at all stages of the life cycle, the salt economy of higher plants can only be fully understood when a comprehensive approach, which considers phenomena ranging from membrane permeabilities to the ecology of the entire population, is employed. Similar analyses of related taxa from more fertile sites will be required to elucidate the evolutionary histories of the specialized nutritional strategies serving extreme epiphytes.
2820542|Three pathways of net carbon assimilation and reduction have been detected in certain higher plant. The three recognized pathways are: the reductive pentose phosphate, the C
2822141|A brief survey of types of branch attachment in monocotyledons shows a wide range of morphological possibilities. This diversity is duscussed in the light of recent analytical studies of the development of the vascular system in monocotyledons, expecially in the larger, woody forms which have a special interpretive appeal. Vascular interlinkage is seen here as the result of interaction between growth centers. Morphological diversity can accordingly be comprehended in quite simple developmental terms.
2822142|Human hosts exposed to infection are model systems for studying the interactions of parasites with each other and with their environments. This paper uses published epidemiological data to demonstrate an interaction among the species of human malaria that is expected from ecological and evolutionary theory. Under certain circumstances, there are fewer mixed malarial infections in human beings than would be expected if infection with one species of malaria were independent of infection with each other species. This reduction in the number of mixed infections is strongly associated with enlargement of the spleen of the human hosts, and less strongly with situations that stimulate immune responses. Such heterologous resistance is probably best explained as a partial heterologous immunity to malaria in man, since experiments in other mammals have shown that immune mechanisms can eliminate or reduce the level of mixed infections. Though competition among mixed malaria species for nutrients in limited supply in hosts with splenomegaly is possilbe, most hypotheses which explain the reduction in mixed infections as an artifact or as a result of nonimmune mechanisms are either not consistent with all the observed data or are not now known to suffice to account for them. If heterologous immunity can indeed greatly reduce the prevalence of mixed infections, as is claimed, then a malaria vaccine need not be specific to each of the species, strains, or antigenic variants of Plasmodium in order to be effective.
2822139|Past and Present taxonomic treatments and evolutionary analyses of monocotyledons have noted that unspecialized reproductive structures occur in some palms, but the size, inaccessibility, apparent and often real complexity of these plants have hampered detailed studies until recently. The most primitive palms are 14 or 15 apocarpous genera belonging to the Trithrinaux alliance in the coryphoid group. Apocarpy also characterizes Phoenix, a genus related to coryphoid palms but more specialized in some respects, and Nypa fruticans, a mangrove palm with a unique combination of primitive and specialized features. Distribution patterns, habits, leaf structure, germination, reproductive structures, chromosomes numbers, vessels, and vascular systems are described, as presently known, in these primitive palms, and their significance in the evolution of other palms, monocotyledons, and dicotyledons is evaluated. It is concluded that the palsm are not a morphologically unique and isolated group, as often postulated, but that they frequently express most clearly evolutionary sequences fundamental to monocotyledons as a whole. Evolution in palms substantiates a number of different evolutionary sequences in monocotyledons and dicotyledons, and suggests other possibly different trends for investigation. The review provides evidence that the exploitation of different evolutionary sequences by monocotyledons and dicotyledons necessitates separate consideration of evolution within each class of angiosperms. It is suggested that an early divergence of monocotyledons and dicotyledons from protoangiosperms or perhaps even from preangiosperms may be compared to the evolution of birds and mammals from diverse reptilian groups.
2822138|Studies of fossil pollen and leaves from Lower Cretaceous rocks, including the Potomac Group of Maryland and Virginia, provide direct evidence on the course of early evolution in the angiosperms. Fossils with features restricted to the monocotyledons-monosulcate pollen with reticulate sculpture differentiated into coarse and fine areas, and leaves (acaciaephyllum Fontaine) with apically fusing secondary venation and finer cross-veins-occur in the basal Potomac (Aptain?) and indicate that the monocotyledonous line had become established at this time, when the dicotyledonous flora was still at a very early stage in its difersification (exclusively monosulcate, with putatively primitive leaf architecture). The existence of peltatecordate dicotyledon leaves in slightly younger rocks (Middle Albian?) suggests that both the Nymphaeales and monocotyledons may be relicts of an early radiation of herbaceous (in part, aquatic) angiosperms. The pollen and megafossil record of Palms, beginning with putatively primitive costapalmate leaves in the late Upper Cretaceous (Senonian), suggests that the palms, like the grasses, originated and diversified relatively late in the history of monocotyledons.
2822140|A review of the previous literature on the morphology and evolution of monocotyledonous leaves reveals a number of interpretive controversies and contradictions. The phyllode theory, which has been the prevailing interpretation of the origin and evolution of monocotyledonous leaves, is evaluated and is shown to have been biased by a preoccupation with temperate monocotyledons and the exclusive study of mature leaf morphology and vascular anatomy. Recent investigations of comparative development have provided a broader basis for the evaluation of structural relationships of leaves in the monocotyledons and dicotyledons and have served to eliminate some of the interpretive inconsistencies that were based on the study of vascular anatomy only. The most controversial leaf type in the monocotyledons has been the unifacial (radially symmetrical) leaf found in a number of divergent families. Contrary to the original Phyllode theory of the Candolle (1827) and Arber (1918), developmental comparison of unifacial appendages of monocotyledons with rachis leaves of Umbelliferae suggests that the terete leaf axis of the former is not simply an elaborated petiole but is positionally equivalent to the laminar region of a dicotyledonous leaf. Instead of being expanded in surface by marginal growth, the unifacial moncotyledonous leaf is thickened developmentally and hence has become nearly radial in summetry. Thus the original phyllode concept of the loss of the blade retion and the expansion and assumption of its function by the petiole no longer seems valid for monocotyledonous leaves. In addition, comparative developmental studies, as well as the analysis of serial changes in leaf morphology, have confirmed that where dorsiventral, laminar leaves are developed in the monocotyledons, they are developmental elaborations of the basal, meristem-encircling part of the leaf primordium, and the distal upper leaf zone remains rudimentary. Therefore, blade regions of such dorsiventral appendages are not homologous with those of dicotyledons because they have a different developmental origin; laminae of dicotyledons are derived from the upper leaf zone. It is suggested that the basic construction of monocotyledonous leaves consists of two regions: (1) a distal unifacial upper sector; and (2) a proximal bifacial sheath; variations in leaf morphology in a range of monocotyledonous taxa are therefore due to reciprocal elaboration, or suppression of these two sectors, or both. It is emphasized, however, that before any model of this sort can be extended to the monocotyledons as a whole, it must be evaluated rigorously in the broadest range of representatives from each major family.
3036036|It is widely believed that mutualisms, interspecific interactions that benefit both species, have been grossly neglected relative to their true importance in nature. I have reviewed the recent primary literature in order to assess quentitatively the frequency of studies of mutualism, the types of questions they address, and their general scientific approach. All articles appearing from 1986 to 1990 in nine major journals that publish ecological and evolutionary research were examined. It is clear that mutualism research is not in fact rare. Studies of interspecific interactions made up about 22% of theover 4500 articles published during this period; of these, about one-quarter investigated some form of mutualism. Over 90% of them investigated plant-animal interactions, primarily pollination (52%) and seed dispersal (31%), a bias probably related in part to the particular journals examined. The diversity of questions addressed in these articles was surprisingly low. The majority (63%) focused simply on identifying the mutualist of some species of interest. Furthermore, almost all studies were unilateral, that is, they focused on only one of the interacting species, plants being studied much more frequently than their animal partners. Mutualism studies do not appear to have focused on mutualism as a form of interaction in the same way as studies of competition and predation. Rather, researchers have treated mutualism primarily as a life history attribute of one of the two partners. Consequently, although an impressive amount of information has accumulated about these interactions, we are still far from achieving an overall picture that transcends the boundaries of particular taxa or comibinations of taxa. Three other obstacles have prevented data on mutualisms from being brought together: the historical isolation of studies of different kinds of mutualism, a nearly total disconnection between mutualism theories and empirical studies, and the unilateral approach almost always used to study these bilateral interactions. I identify eight research questions whose answers have the potential to reveal broad-based generalizations about the evolution and ecology of mutualism.
3036035|"Fitness" has been used to indicate a measure of general adaptedness, and to indicate a short-term measure of reproductive success. The former concept seems unproductive in evoutionary biology, but consensus on the exact form of the latter might be possible. Fitness as a short-term measure of reproductive success can be defined from the demographic recurrence equations for genotypic number; it refers to a genotype or to a genotypic combination, if genotypes interact. Fitness summarizes a model for genotypic demography for a given set of assumptions about the population and the genotypic and individual interactions within it. For a population growing at a constant rate, demographic genotypic fitness has the same shape as reproductive value at birth; but reproductive value refers to a cohort of a genotype, while demographic genotypic fitness refers to organisms of one genotype at one moment in time. This is a major conceptual difference, although the numerical identity between demographic genotypic fitness and reporductive value for a population growing at a constant rate explains why models of life history evolution based upon reproductive value are successful. The Secondary Theorem of Natural Selection (Robertson, 1968) Predicts the selection response in mean trait value by the genetic covairance between trait and fitness. Selection on a quantitative trait is often formulated as involving the heritability and the phenotypic covariance between trait and fitness or the phenotypic selection grandien , the (partial) regression of fitness on the trait. The change in the covariance between the genotypic and the phenotypic level introduces an assumption on the additivity of fitness. The selection gradient, as a regression, focuses on differences in fitness as derived from differences in the trait. In the Secondary Theorem, trait and fitness play equivalent roles. The Secondary Theorem implies a different understanding of the process of selection from a phenotypic selection gradient and a heritability, on those two counts. Fitness might arise from the phenotype in interaction with the environment, but phenotype and fitness might both arise as consequences of development. The study of selection thus becomes the study of the biological mechanisms underlying and generating the genetic covariance between phenotype and fitness.
3036434|There are three major difficulties encountered by those dealing with the phenomenon of endemism: a semantic problem, the absence of a clear conceptual framework, and an analytical problem. First, the terms endemic and endemism are used in the literature in unclear or contradictory ways. Often neither the title nor the abstract of an article makes the meaning clear. Following the usage that tends to prevail among Anglo-American zoogeographers, a species or other taxon is regarded here as endemic to an area if it occurs only in that area. To speak of a taxon as endemic in this context without specifying an area is meaningless. Since geographic ranges of taxa change with time, time must also be specified, or at least understood. Second, a conceptual model is provided in which only changes in ranges (occuring frequently) and speciation (occuring relatively rarely) are seen to change the percentage of endemism in any given area. At a subsidiary level, many complex factors influence areographic changes and speciation. Among the more important of these are: distance from source to target area, size of area, geological age of area, time since isolation, environemntal variety and stability, and vagility and ecological tolerance of organisms being considered. These are not all independent factors. This complexity leads to the third and still largely unresolved problem namely how to analyse a global biological system involving processes on both a shorter-term ecological time scale and a longer-term evolutionary time scale.
3036435|Populations of rodents isolated on islads often show systematic differences in demography, reproduction, behavior, and morphology when compared to mainland populations. These differences, termed the island syndrome, include higher and more stable densities, better survival, increased body mass, and reduced aggressiveness, reproductive output, and dispersal. We synthesize information in the literature on island rodent populations and construct a conceptual model to explain in the island syndrome. Population density and other manifestations of the islands syndrome are predicted to increase with island isolation and to decrease with island area. The effect of isolation is direct by limiting dispersal, while the effect of area is less direct. As area increases, predators, competitors, and habitat structure increase in diversity. We suggest that the intensity or absense of density-depressing factors (primarily predation in communities comprised of only a few morphologically and trophically divergent species) is primarily responsible for the area effect and serves as a principal factor differentiating island from mainland populations of rodents. Other characteristics associated with the island syndrome may be the result of both short-term and long-term processes or responses. Short-term responses include reproductive, body size, and behavioral changes that may be phenotypic reaction norms in response to higher island densities. Thus, higher densities lead to reduced reproductive output, which then leads to greater body size. Initial behavioral differences may be owing to better survival and reduced dispersal, which result in less population turnover, greater neighbor familiarity, and less aggression. Long-term changes may be due to directional selection for reduced dispersal, increased body size in response to increased intraspecific competition, reduced reproductive output (smaller litters and delayed maturation) in response to reduced mortality schedules, and reduced aggressiveness. While the model is specific to rodent populations, the conclusions may be applicable to other systems if characteristic such as body size, vagility, and community composition are considered.
3037717|In some salamander species the retention of larval characteristics in sexually mature adults (paedomorphosis) is an alternative to metamorphosis. In many species paedomorphosis is facultative, thus offering a unique opportunity to test predictions on the evolution of life history variation. Here I expand upon a previous hypothesis ("paedomorph advantage") and present two alternative selection mechanisms ("best of a bad lot" and "dimorphic paedomorph" hypotheses) for the maintenance of facultative paedomorphosis. Each hypothesis makes specific predictions regarding the environmental conditions favoring paedomorphosis, the resulting larval growth patterns, and the fitness consequences to each morph. I evaluate each hypothesis by testing these predictions using published data. No study has conclusively determined the relative fitness of paedomorphs and metamorphs, which limits our understanding of the evolution of this polymorphism. Larval growth patterns suggest, however, that both the paedomorph advantage and the best of a bad lot hypotheses are viable alternatives for the evolutionary maintenance of facultative paedomorphosis in different species. Thus current data on facultative paedomorphosis support the premise that selection can favor the production of an environmentally induced polymorphism through more than one mechanism.
3037716|Numerous hypotheses have been proposed to account for the widespread occurrence of specialized behavior, especially with regard to food and host-related resource utilization. None of these hypotheses has been widely accepted, although most are recognized as being important for particular taxa or in certain circumstances. We discuss features of neural function as primary proximate mechanisms involved in resource specialization, which may underlie many of the other hypotheses. Diet and host breadth may be associated with the potential informational complexity of an organism's environment. The processing of complex information ultimately entails costs associated with decision time, relative efficiency of food or oviposition site-selection behavior, and concomitant exposure to potential mortality factors. Sensory focusing, through paying attention, experiential processes, or canalized sensory input decreases these costs. Increased efficiency of host finding, recognition, and discrimination can be expected as a result of a reduced probability of information overload. Such efficiencies should, in addition, decrease exposure to natural enemies.
3037715|Morphological polymorphism is widespread in colonial marine invertebrates and socia insects. The polymorphs originate as variants on the basic units that comprise the colonies and are often induced by local environmentl cues. This review examines (1) the incidence of polymorphism within invertebrate phyla and social insects, (2) the cues triggering polymorphs in the colonial marine invertebrates and the social insects, (3) the roles of heterochrony and genetic assimilation in the origins of polymorphs, and (4) the factors favoring the maintenance of polymorphism. The incidence of developmental polymorphism is high, but episodically distributed in three phyla of colonial marine invertebrates, the Cnidaria, the Bryozoa, and the Urochordata. Although polymorphism is well known in the social insects, the incidence appears lower than in some clades of colonial marine invertebrates. I suggest that the high incidence of polymorphism in some taxa of colonial marine invertebrates results from both unusually high origination rates and strong natural selection favoring division of labor in colonies where the units are isogenic. Four features of colonial marine invertebrates make them particularly susceptible to high origination rates of morphological novelties: (1) the iterated developmental process, (2) the late differentiation of the germ line, (3) the lability of signal transduction pathways, and (4) the potential for partially functioning "hopeful monsters" to be nurtured by the colony. Origination rates of morphological novelties may also be high in colonial marine invertebrates owing to a propensity for environmentally induced heterochronic shifts: All colonial invertebrates produce the units of the colony through an iterated developmental process that allows environmental stimuli to differentiate the functions and morphologies of the units from each other. A small difference in growth rate among the units can be translated into large shifts in morphology. Genetic assimilation of environmentally induced variants may be facilitated by the late time of differentiation of germ cells and the redifferentiation of germ cells in each newly budded zooid. Environmental induction is common in the triggering of polymorphic transformations. The evolutionary lability of these signal transduction pathways is indicated by the diversity of different combinations of extrinsic and intrinsic cues activating morphological switches. Despite general interest in the evolution of phenotypic plasticity, the particular selective factors maintaining these inducible polymorphisms in nature poorly known.
3036144|The functions of the little-studied avian spleen are reviewed and compared with those of its better known mammalian counterpart, which is generally larger in proportion to body size than in birds. A role in immunity similar to that in mammals is evident, but the organ's contribution to oxygen supply seems less extensive; splenic storage of erythrocytes, for example, is unrecorded for birds. The spleen is a principal organ of systemic immunity, and its importance in disease resistance is presumably accentuated by the scarcity of aan lymph nodes. The striking intraspecific viariation in size partly refelcts seasonal changes in spleen morphology and activity. Several explanations, principally based on changing oxygen demand, have been proposed previously for these periodical cycles. But seasonally small spleens could sometimes simply stem from a combination of (1) a cessation of active splenomegaly as seasonally patent infections recede, and (2) a seasonal lymphoid involution, occuring even if an individual has not recently responded to, and recovered from, and infection. Possible determinants for these and other processes are discussed from evolutionary and ecological perspectives. There is a pressing need for a thorough investigation of both hematological and immunological functions, using a phylogenetically and ecologically broad range of species, as well as modern histological and experimental techniques.
3036145|Reproductive experiences for women in today's affluent Western nations differ from those of women in hunting and gathering societies, who continue the ancestral human pattern. These differences parallel commonly accepted reproductive risk factors for cancers of the breast, endometrium and ovary. Nutritional practices, exercise requirements, and body composition are nonreproductive influences that have been proposed as additional factors affecting the incidence of women's cancers. In each case, these would further increase risk for women in industrialized countries relative to forager women. Lifestyles and reproductive patterns new from an evolutionary perspective may promote women's cancer. Calculations based on a theoretical model suggest that, to age 60, modern Western women have a breast cancer risk as much as 100 times that of preagricultural women.
2814542|Investigators of complex loci or pseudoalleles have attempted to analyze the structure and functions of the gene by the use of multiple allelic series. In the past decade a number of studies have presented stimulating findings and interpretations on the biochemical, topological, and physiological properties of genes. The historical background which led to these new discoveries is summarized and the basic problems involved are sketched. All of the present examples in Drosophila melanogaster are individually considered for their unique features as well as their similarities. The problem of the universality of pseudo-allelism is considered, with numerous examples of complexity in gene regions chosen from a wide variety of cellular forms. Special attention is also given to the interpretations of blood groups. In the microorganisms the contributions from viruses, bacteria, and the fungi are contrasted with the findings in the higher organisms. The major differences and basic similarities are pointed out in a comparative analysis of the various theories used to interpret the gene concept.
2814541|Critical reexamination of Gadow's theory of the composition of vertebrae from four pairs of arcualia is inapplicable to tetrapods and so remote from the facts that his terminology even in modified form should not be employed in tetrapods. Division of the sclerotome into anterior and posterior parts by a sclerocoel is probably primitive in tetrapods. The origins of adult vertebral structures from these sclerotome parts is always complex. Centra in tetrapods are not arch centra, but autonomous structures, primitively two per neural arch, a hypocentrum formed from perichordal tissue belonging to the cranial and caudal halves of a single sclerotome, and a pleurocentrum formed from perichordal tissue from the caudal half of one sclerotome united with perichordal tissue from the cranial half of the next succeeding sclerotome. The main body of the neural arch of tetrapods is either wholly derived from the paraneural tissue of the caudal half of a single sclerotome or from this plus paraneural tissue from the cranial half of the next succeding sclerotome. The pre-and post-zygapophysial articulations form within the cranial halves of sclerotomes. Ventral arches, when present, are formed either from tissue from both halves of a single sclerotome or from one or the other half. The neural arch is homologous through-out the tetrapoda, living and fossil. The functional centrum, if there is a departure from the primitive condition with two functional centra, may be either the hypocentrum or the pleurocentrum. The evidence suggests that the hypocentrum became the functional centrum only in one branch of the tetrapoda which died out at the end of the Triassic and that all living tetrapods-the three of Amphibia and the Amniota-retain the pleurocentrum as the functional element. It is therefore suggested that the living Amphibia, on the basis of vertebral structure, are more closely akin to the Amniota than to the Paleozoic Amphibia termed Rhachitomi and Stereopondyli.
2815817|A preliminary synthesis of evolutionary studies of certain morphological and ethological characters in the ant tribe Dacetini is given. A primary trend inferred from the study of living species is the shift from epigaeic-subarboreal to cryptic-terrestrial foraging. Possibly associated in the early stages of dacetine evolution with this shift was a trend toward oligophagous predation, resulting in extreme cases among modern forms in specialized feeding on collembolans. Secondary changes have occurred in hunting behavior and in a diversity of morphological features; these are described briefly. Reversed or, more accurately, "countercurrent" evolution has occurred in various phyletic lines in most of the characters of this morphological-ethological coadaptive system. Such changes are relatively short-range and usually involve only a few characters at a time. In at least some instances they have produced a local reversal in the overall dacetine trend to specialization, as with secondarily increased polyphagy in some species of Strumigenys. Convergence to the higher dacetine morphological type has occurred independently in several other ant tribes; in at least one case (Rhopalothrix) ethological convergence is also evident.
2815816|An attempt is made to assess the influence of evolution theory on the study of embryology by examining the assumptions held by embryologists before and after the publication of the Origin of Species, and by questioning to what degree any change in these assumption has been fostered by concepts of evolution. The assumptions considered are the following: (1) assumptions about embryology: (a) that the study of development is important; (b) that developmental phenomena are open to investigation; (c) that morphology remains of primary significance in interpretations of development; (2) assumptions about embryos: (a) that multicellular organisms are produced by eggs; (b) that development is epigenetic in so far as one step in development is a necessary condition for the next; (c) that the cell is the developmental unit of the organism; (d) that the molecule is the developmental agent within the cell. It is suggested that while Haeckel's emphasis on development in the grand evolutionary scheme of things was instrumental in stimulating the study of development and in convincing his readers that its problems are soluble, his most important influence was through his whole outlook on nature rather than through the recapitulation doctrine itself. Haeckel's emphasis on the importance of morphological criteria in support of recapitulation may have been to some extent detrimental to the immediate progress of embryology, as was his opposition to the physiological interpretations of Wilhelm is and thus to a fertile study of epigenesis. Mid-twentieth century interest in development as related to spontaneous generation and as a part of molecular biology has grown out of lines of thought separate from those of classical evolution theory. It is concluded that many of the most important working assumptions of the embryologists of today developed independently of classical evolution doctrine.
2817375|The cardiovascular system is analyzed as a feedback regulator. The controlling system is identified as being the medullary cardiovascular centers as well as those endocrine glands which operate upon the heart and blood vessels; the controlled system comprises the mechanical and gas exchanger elements of the cardiovascular system. The present analysis is restriced to the mechanical section of the controlled system. Equations are first formulated to define the steady-state operation of an isolated ventricle and of an isolated "circuit." Two ventricles are then combined with a single "open" circuit, the pulmonary, to obtain equations describing the operation of the Starling heart-lung preparation. Finally, the system is "closed" by introducing a second circuit, the systemic, and equations are obtained for the behavior of this complete mechanical system. These equations define steady-state valvues for each of the system's dependent variables (cardiac output; ventricular volumes and work; systemic arterial and venous pressures; pulmonary arterial and venous pressures; systemic and pulmonary blood volumes and their distribution between artery and vein) for any given set of values for the 14 independent variables (cardiac frequency; "strength," viscance, and compliance of each ventricle; systemic and pulmonary arteriolar resistances; systemic arterial and venous compliances; pulmonary arterial and venous compliances; and total blood volume). Comparison of predicted behavior with experimetal data indicates that the mathematical model so obtained is a useful one.
2817376|The process of aging may be regarded as the totality of those changes in structure, and consequently in function, which take place after reproductive maturity and which result in decreased adaptation to the environment. Built into the design and structure of an organism, this process is reflected in an increased probability of death. The wellknown Gompertz equation describing increasing mortality with age has given rise to a number of theories which are shown to be, in one or more points, inadequate and inconsistent with established data.-All changes affecting the fitness of organisms are basically changes in the kinds, amounts, or arrangements of molecules and cells. Changes with age arise either from stochastic changes or from genetic processes, and should satisfy four criteria: universality, intrisicality, progessiveness, and deleteriousness. The evolutionary origin of the aging process and the nature of the possible sources of instability afford evidence that there are multiple causes of aging. It is not at present possible to assign relative weights to the various processes.-The current thesis that the life-shortening of experimental animals exposed to ionizing radiation is attributable to an acceleration of the normal aging process is evaluated in terms of the sources and mechanisms of damage. It is concluded that time and radiation are unlikely to produce their de-adaptive effects by similar mechanisms because (1) aging is primarily an effect on postmitotic cells, whereas at low dosages radiation primarily affects dividing cell lines; (2) radiation damage is primarily genetic, whereas time produces many kinds of changes most of which are probably not genetic; (3) the lives of some experimental animals are not shortened by large doses of radiation; and (4) radiation dosages sufficient to double the rate of mortality increase produce a much greater than two-fold increase in genetic effects (mutation).
2816519|A formal solution of the main problems concerning the origination of life is attempted, adopting as fundamental axiom the plausible assumption that it was a spontaneous, natural sequence of "most probable" events. Survival by natural selection is a particular example of a most probable event, and therefore operated at all stages of the origination. True evolutionary novelties have been most probable responses to new environmental conditions, and may have become rerer as the of change of the causal conditions decreased. The most probable behavior of living organisms, as "open" systems, differs from that of classical, closed systems. The steady state, characteristic of such open systems, involves the apparent paradox of a stable, self-perpetuating "fabric," maintained by cyclic metabolic activity. The stability is dynamic. Theories on the origination of life frequently consider only the fabric and neglect the metabolic aspect of the system. This is facilitated by several factors and can lead to errors, particularly in scales of rate and magnitude. A slow, protracted acquisition of new materials, even represented by a single molecule of its species in some instances, is often postulated. It is more probable that all significant materials and reactions were acquired early, panglobally and in quantity, and that subsequent evolution was restricted (a) to most probable innovations, as indicated above, and (b) to less fundamental taxonomic changes, depending in part on changes in the biological environment itself. In general there has been biochemical simplification during evolution, rather than the converse. An "ametabolic" view leads to the questionable conclusions that there were originally no autotrophs, no photoactivated endergonic synthesis, no need for solar energy, and no decay, that the initial heterotrophs could feed indefinitely on a limited store of pristine organic compounds, and that generally reducing conditions prevailed on the early earth. This view fails to recognize that the general level of oxidation is less important than the maintenance of a potential difference in free energy between organism and environment. It also tends to overlook the relative rapidity of the circulation of organic material through living systems, and the evolutionary implications of this. The cycle is not related to the diurnal or the seasonal cycles of solar energy influx. It is a sine qua non for continued life. Any serious "bottlenecks" or "stockpiling" of materials could be disastrous. There has been automatic selection in favor of the cyclically interdependent autotrophic and heterotrophic activities, since indirectly each is self-promoting. This has led to increasingly rapid circulation, but with limiting factors. The rapid circulation of material, manifested as an intense competition for it, indicates that material, and not energy, has probably always been the limiting factor in vital activity and evolution on earth. In this open system, energy supply is probably not a serious problem and endergonic reactions are not highly improbable. Molecular aggregation, i.e. synthesis, and similar phenomena at the higher, organismal level-ingestion, syngamy, etc.-may be most probable processes in such systems, since they could thus absorb surplus energy. Selective aggregation is often observed in both inorganic and organic systems. The formation of "coacervates," pristine discrete organisms, is probably a spontaneous process of this type. Losses by wear and tear are an inherent, most probable property of any system and an effective, statistical replacement was a first essential for living systems. With the emergence of discrete organisms more specific replacements became necessary. The phenomenon of death also appeared, as a discontinuous macro-loss, and reproduction and growth emerged as the appropriate replacement. The various "work-functions" of living organisms are basically similar and have much in common with the aggregation-ingestion types of most probable processes.
2816520|A system of broad classification which recognized a plant kingdom of four divisions and an animal kingdom of ten to fifteen phyla was for many years stable and standardized. Significant changes have occurred, or are now proposed. Among these, three major lines of development are discussed: a. Classification of the algae has been fundamentally revised; seven or more algal series are distinguished primarily by characteristics of cells. The phylum concept, long established in zoological classification, has been brought into botanical classification in the systems of Pascher (1931) and Tippo (1942), in which the major algal series, the Bryophyta, and the Tracheophyta are regarded as phyla. b. Many authors have advocated recognition of kingdom of lower organisms, to meet the difficulty of dividing these between the plant and animal kingdoms. Two major possibilities for such a third kingdom are the Protista of Haeckel (1866, 1894), essentially identified with the unicellular organisms, and the Proctoctista of Hogg (1860) and Copeland (1947, 1956), comprising the nucleate, "acellular" organisms including protozoa, algae, and fungi. c. Study of the fungi has led to the view that these are probably derived from colorless flagellates as a line of evolution independent of true plants. The bacteria are better regarded as an ancient complex of many nutritive types, than as a group derived from the blue-green algae. In natural communities bacteria and fungi together form a major functional group (reducers) distinct from the green plants (producers) and animals (consumers). It is consequently appropriate to conceive the broad relations of the living world in terms of three modes of nutrition and directions of evolution rather than two-the photosynthetic of the green plants, the ingestive of the animals, and the absorptive of the bacteria and fungi. These three directions of evolution appear on three major levels of organization-the Monera, or bacteria and blue-green algae, which lack nuclear membranes; the Eunucleata, or unicellular organisms with nuclear membranes; and the multicellular and multinucleate higher plants, animals, and fungi. On this basis four kingdoms are here proposed: The Protista, or unicellular organisms; the Plantae, or multicellular plants; the Fungi; and the Animalia or multicellular animals. Among the Protista the subkingdoms Monera and Eunucleata and distinguished. Among the higher organisms the less widely successful lines of evolution into the multicellular and multinucleate conditions are recognized as the subkingdoms Rhodophyta and Phaeophyta among the plants, Myxomycota among the fungi, and Parazoa and Mesozoa among the animals. Other alternatives to the traditional two-kingdom system are discussed. Despite the general acceptance of the two-kingdom system, these alternatives have value in expressing current understanding of the broad relations among organisms. They should be judged in comparison with the two-kingdom system and with one another for their relative success in embodying these relations in a "natural" classification.
2818703|Three plant communities or assemblages of plants-the vascular plants of an oakpine forest, the lichens of that forest, and herbs of an old field-have been studied after being exposed experimentally to chronic gamma irradiation. Several kinds of changes in the communities have resulted, including: (1) in all three communities irradiation reduced community structure toward the lowest strata or growth-forms of the community; (2) dominant species replaced one another along the gradient of radiation intensity producing population curves similar to those found along natural environmental gradients; (3) significant changes in productivity occurred; (4) species-diversity decreased with increased exposure to radiation; (5) in respect to various tests used in the study, increasing community sensitivity to irradiation was in the sequence: forest lichens, old-field-herbs, forest vascular plants. Radiation effects on communities relate to evolutionary and ecological phenomena of broad interest, including nuclear volume effects on radiation sensitivity, stature and evolutionary level of plants, population processes determining community composition, and relations of communities to succession and natural environmental gradients.
2818702|Seven general kinds of life cycles are known among crickets; they differ chiefly in overwintering (diapause) stage and number of generations per season, or diapauses per generation. Some species with broad north-south ranges vary in these respects, spannig wholly or in part certain of the gaps between cycles and suggesting how some of the differences orgininated. Species with a particular cycle have predictable responses to photoperiod and temperature regimes that affect behavior, development time, wing length, boyd size, and other characteristics. Some polymorphic tendencies also correlate with habitat permanence, and some are influenced by population density. Genera and subfamilies with several kinds of life cycles usually have proportionately more species in temperate regions than those with but one or two cycles, although numbers of species in all widely distributed groups diminish toward the higher latitudes. The tendency of various field cricket species to become double-cycled at certain latitudes appears to have resulted in speciation without geographic isolation in at least one case. Intermediate steps in this allochronic speciation process are illustrated by North American and Japanese species; the possibility that this process has also occurred in others kinds of temperate insects is discussed.
2819013|A review of the Australo-Papuan mammal fauna shows it to be composed of four monotreme, about 145 marsupial, and about 214 placental species. Endemism is high in every group except bats. Virtually all major ways of life (except those of rodents and bats) have been filled by marsupials, and their great diversity of body forms reflects this. Convergence with placental couterparts on other continents may involve the whole body (in the superficial sense) but is usually restricted to parts of the body or sets of structures. Australia provides the best example of evolution and radiation in an isolated fauna to be found among mammals. The placental rodents and bats occupy essentially the same kinds of niches as on other continents, and they show virtually no striking structural novelties. This confirms that the rodents, at least, are late colonizers, despite the degree of ecological radiation achieved. The pre-Tertiary Australian fauna was presumably made up of monotremes and ancestral marsupials. No fossils are known, however, before the end of the Oligocene or early Miocene, by which time the contemporary families had differentiated (Notoryctes, the marsupial mole, however, is unknown as a fossil). Only one form known from the early Miocene (Wynyardia, Wynyardidae) is presumed to be extinct before the Pleistocene. One family (Diprotodontidae) and two sub-families (Sthenurinae, Thylacoleoninae) became extinct in early Recent, or mid-Recent times. The contemporary mammal fauna of Australia is reviewed with respect to the biology and ecology of the major types, fossil history, radiation, and speciation.
2819014|Of the three southern continents, South America was more isolated during the Tertiary than Africa, less isolated than Australia. Its record of Cenozoic mammalian life is better than that of either. This record suggests that around the beginning of the Cenozoic, South America received a few wait immigrants-marsupials, edentates, ungulates-that reached the continent across a water barrier. The source area was probably Central America, which formed a tropical North American peninsula until near the end of Tertiary time. A few later wait immigrants reached the continent across the water barrier-rodents in the later part of the Eocene, primates then or in the early Oligocene, and procyonids perhaps late in the Miocene. From the descendants of these few immigrants a balanced fauna evolved that was strikingly different in composition from those of other continents. The evolution of the various groups composing it is briefly presented and discussed. At the end of the Tertiary the isolation of the continent ended with the establishment of the Isthmus of Panama. Faunal interchange between North and South America then began and is still going on. Most of the northern participants in the interchange penetrated deeply into South America. The southern participants, advancing into a continent subjected to periodic continental glaciations, were less successful, the majority of them not penetrating beyond the tropical area. Competition and extinction during the faunal interchange went on mainly among the carnivores, the southern marsupials being replaced by the northern placentals. The spectacular extinctions, involving mainly large mammals of both northern and southern ancestry, came at the end of the Pleistocene; the arrival of man was probably a major factor.
2819074|An analysis of behavioral, neurological, and biochemical research indicates that the sensory systems of the avian embryo become functional in the following order: (1) non-visual photic sensitivity; (2) tactile sensitivity; (3) vestibular sensitivity; (4) proprioception; (5) audition; (6) vision. There is no firm information about the onset of gustation and olfaction in the avian embryo. With the possible exception of vision, there would appear to be adequate stimulation during the normal course of incubation to excite all the sensory systems. Whether such stimulation actually plays a role in regulating species-typical sensory and perceptual development is not known. While it seems doubtful that depriving the embryo of relevant stimulation, or prematurely exposing it to such stimulation, would alter the absolute sequence in which the sensory systems develop, such a manipulation might exert some effect on the relative time of onset of the particular sensory system involved, and a major effect on the development of adaptive perceptual discrimination abilities within the modality thus affected. An experiment involving sub-total auditory deprivation demonstrated in duck embryos that normally occurring auditory stimulation is essential to the development of species-specific auditory perception. Although partially deprived embryos were not capable of making the usual perceptual discriminative response, they were capable of hearing. Similarly deprived embryos were able to make the species-specific auditory discrimination after hatching, indicating that the sub-total deprivation induces a lag in the development of an embryo's discriminative ability. These findings are consonant with the view that exposure to relevant stimulation plays an important role in regulating the development of adaptive perceptual discrimination abilities in the avian embryo.
2819073|Both growth hormone and insulin are needed for growth in mammals. Evidence indicates that these hormones increase amino acid transport into cells, and it is hypothesized in this review that this transport may at the very least be "Permissive" to a sustained increase in the rate of protein synthesis mediated by these hormones. When animals are pre-treated with these hormones, the ability of their ribosomes to incorporate labeled amino acids into peptide linkage is stimulated. While incorporation of precursors into RNA, probably including messenger RNA, may be stimulated, it would appear that the lesser amino-acid-incorporating ability of ribosomes from liver of hypophysectomized rats or from the heart of diabetic rats is not due wholly to insufficient messenger RNA, since the deficiency persist in the presence of exogenous messenger RNA. It is most likely that a number of steps in amino acid protein anabolism are stimulated by these hormones.
2817824|Africa and the Oriental Region are probably the areas from which mammals radiated into the rest of the world. Both regions have rich and diverse mammalian faunas. That of Africa, composed purely of placentals, is most closely related to the Oriental fauna and has very little in common with the faunas of the other southern continents. About one quarter of the families are endemic. Approximate numbers of species and superspecies are given for each family. Africa has about one-quarter of the mammal species of the world; rodents, bats, insectivores, artiodactyls, carnivores and primates, in that order, are the largest groups. Endemism at the generic level is high except in the bats. The main features of speciation, radiation, ecology and geographical distribution are discussed for each order. Outstandig features are the radiation of insectivores with the evolution of three endemic families, (the aquatic otter shrews, subterranean golden moles and bipedal elephant shrews); the great diversity of rodents, with endemic families resembling "flying" squirrels (anomalurids), moles (bathyergids), hyraxes (ctenodactylids), cavies (thrynomyds) and Kangaroos (pedetes); extensive speciation in the Viverridae, and unparalleled radiation in the Bovidae to fill all available herbivorous niches. Regional faunas of the main biotic zones (Lowland Forest; Southern and Northern Savanna; Southe West, Somali and Sudanese Arid; and the Abyssinian Highlands) are described. The basic dichotomy is between forest and non-forest froms. A consideration of centers of endemism, mainly in the lowland forest and arid zones, leads to the conclusion that they were isolated as a result of fluctuations in climate and the resulting displacement of vegetation zones during the Quarternary. The faunas of Madagascar and of the Comor, Seychelle and Mascarene Islands are described. Madagascar has a peculiar, ancient, typically unbalanced, island fauan with African affinities. The other islands have small faunas, composed only of bats in the case of the farthest ones.
2817822|The isolated southern continents, occupying approximately equivalent latitudinal zones and broadly comparable as living areas, provide an unusual opportunity for a comparative study of mammalian evolution. Each began the Age of Mammals with different mammalian raw material, and each has had a long history of evolution in isolation. This was interrupted by major faunal interchanges only rarely-Africa three times (?), South America once-all other colonization being adventitious. The latest paleontological data strongly supports the contention that each continent received its mammal fauna from the north and not by any direct southern connection. THis is notwithstanding some similarities in the floras and invertebrate faunas of South America and Australia, and fascinating new evidence that Antarctica supported forests in the middle Tertiary. The latest paleomagnetic data on shifting continents confirms that any major sundering occurred in the early Mesozoic, prior to the evolution of mammals.
2817823|The African continent has long been regarded as a "refuge" for the survival of archaic forms of life, but in recent years evidence has been accumulating which serves to emphasize the essentially indigenous nature of the living and extinct mammalian faunas. This paper discusses the major fossil localities and their faunas against a background of new paleogeographic studies. The latter show that through most of geological time Arabia has been basically part of the African continent; the Red Sea rift developed as a terrestrial trough in the Oligocene, was invaded from the Mediterranean in the Miocene, and connected through to the Indian Ocean in the Pliocene. The pre-Mediterranean Tethys Sea cut Arabo-Africa off from Eurasia during much of the Mesozoic and Tertiary. Temporary land of island connections occurred during the Paleocene elevation of the Arabo-African block, during the late Oligocene orogenesis in the Atlas and the Alps, and again at the end of the Miocene. At these times there was opportunity for limited faunal interchange between Arabo-Africa and Eurasia. From a Paleocene ferungulate stock, already possessing early anthracotheres and hyaenodonts, the proboscideans, hyracoids, and sirenians developed as new elements in Africa. Insectivores and primates must also have been part of this early fauna. In the late Oligocene there was an export of African stocks to Eurasia in exchange for importation of some perissodactyls, fissiped carnivores, and perhaps basic suid, tragulid, and palaeo-merycid-bovid elements. Lesser interchanges took place at the end of the Miocene, contributing African forms to Eurasia and admitting hipparionids to Africa. During the Pliocene great diversification took place among the African Bovidae and Siodae in particular, but the Ethiopian region was effectively isolated from Eurasia until the end of the period. However, Arabia became firmly linked to Asia and probably furnished much African material to that continent. An attempt is made to show by means of diagrams the apparent duration of African evolution for each mammalian family and to suggest the time and geographic origin or destination of imports and exports. The role Africa as an important center of evolution and source for diffusion into the Palearctic region is apparent.
2816741|Phase change sometimes involves a relatively abrupt switch in potential of apical meristems in higher plants from a juvenile to an adult type of growth. The two growth forms are highly persistent in different parts of the same individual and in clonally propagated offspring. Reversion to the juvenile condition occasionally occurs in buds on adult-type shoots, and invariably takes place in sexual reproduction. It is pointed out that counterparts of phase change, expressed in a wide variety of ways, are common among both plants and animals; structures arise in the development of all organisms with characteristics that are not merely functional adaptations but are innate and self-maintaining in mitosis. Phase change is to be considered, therefore, as illustrating a general aspect of cell heredity and variation; it is singular only in the distinctness with which the alteration in type of growth may be phenotypically expressed. The mechanism whereby such characteristics are maintained and perpetuated in somatic cells is an unsolved problem. There is now limited evidence, some of it also indirect, suggesting that the chromosomes are the site of such discontinuous and potentially reversible ontogenetic changes. This evidence is briefly reviewed in terms of a hypothesis in which it is assumed that in addition to the genes, which are stable, the chromosomes also contain self-perpetuating accessory materials that undergo paramutation in an orderly way in somatic cells as an essential aspect of a nucleo-cytoplasmic system of morphogenetic determination.
2816742|Consideration of the organization, ontogeny, and orientation of tapeworms, and comparison with the structure and development of other invertebrates, support the opinion that the cestode is an individual rather than a colony and that the transformation of the oncosphere to a procercoid or cysticercoid is a true metamorphosis in which there is a reversal of the antero-posterior axis.
2814915|Hybrid sterility is defined as the inhibition or suppression of the reproductive capacity of F
2814916|Quantitative studies of natality, mortality, and age-distributions of anuran populations are reviewed. Specific problems involve estimates of (1) the age of individuals, (2) age-specific fertility, (3) natality of populations, (4) larval survival, and (5) age-specific post-metamorphic survival. Some possible differences in the comparative demography of north temperate and neotropical anurans are suggested.
2815096|The history of our knowledge of the X chromosome of man is reviewed with appropriate reference to the contributions made through study of other forms. It is noteworthy that sex-linkage was first observed in man. X-linkage has been established for about 60 traits in man. Unlike a majority of autosomal traits in man, most of the observed X-linked traits are recessives (or incomplete recessives). The genetic map of the X chromosome is known only in the most sketchy manner but is likely to be filled in rapidly in the next few years through the use of newly discovered markers, such as the Xg
2816615|Chemotropism and chemotaxis have been demostrated in a variety of vegetative and reproductive cell types in both higher and lower plants and animals. None of the naturally occurring chemotropic or chemotactic agents, nor the mechanisms of their action, have been identified. Nevertheless, certain common characteristics can be noted. Based on parallels which have been observed in various instances of chemotropism and chemotaxis, as well as on mechanisms of action which have been proposed, some suggestions are made regarding potentially useful areas of futher investigation into problems of mechanisms and of comparative physiology of chemotropic and chemotactic substances.
2816614|The origin of land vertebrates is a constant subject of discussion. Recent findings in zoology and paleontology (Latimeria, Ichthyostega, Hesperoherpeton, etc.) have supplied many new arguments, but the results arrived at by various authorities show considerable differences. The author is convinced, however, that present knowledge concerning the evolution of tetrapody can be arranged in a harmonious picture. This is the aim of the review. It is concluded that all the evidence speaks in favor of a monophyletic origin of land vertebrates. Among them, the important differences between amphibians on the one side and the reptiles and their descendants on the other are emphasized. The probable sequence with which the various tetrapod features have accumulated, the reasons which prevented the emergence of terrestrial forms from fishes from being ever repeated, and the evolution of the amphibian ontogeny are discussed.
2826078|The selection pressures imposed by invertebrate are of primary significance in the evolution of cladoceran life histories. Small-sized cladoceran species are vulnerable to invertebrates throughout their lives, but minimize the adverse effects of juvenile mortality by producing relatively large offspring, which reach maturity at an early age. Large-sized species are capable of attaining sizes which cannot be handled by invertebrates, and therefore maximize early growth to an invulnerable size. The large planktonic species and some small littoral forms reach an optimal foraging size within their lifetimes and subsequently minimize growth. However, the emphasis on an early production of relatively large young by the small-sized planktonic species prevents them from attaining their optimal foraging size until very late in life; some species apparently never reach it. Nevertheless, these small-sized species grow continously towards their optimal foraging size. They decrease their vulnerability to invertebrates while they simultaneously increase their exposure to vertebrates.
2826077|Two factors in reptile sex determination have been studied: (1) the presence or absence of heteromorphic sex chromosomes, and (2) the influence of temperature. Recognizable sex chromosomes are common in snakes and lizards, but are apparently rare in turtles and absent in crocodilians and the tuatara. Temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) is common in turtles and has been reported in two lizards and alligators; however, data on TSD are available for few non-turtle species. Present findings on TSD suggest that (1) temperature actually determines sex rather than simply causing differential mortality, and (2) temperature controls sex determination in nature as well as in the laboratory. Only one study, however, has convincingly demonstrated the latter. Sex determination by nest temperature is proposed to interfere with the evolution of sex chromosomes and live-bearing (ovoviviparity); a negative correlation should thus be observed between TSD and sex chromosomes/live-bearing. Present evidence is consistent with these predictions. Possible selective advantages and disadvantages of the different sex-determined mechanisms are discussed, and an attempt is made to deduce their ancestries.
2823921|Most bacterial movement is the result of the action of a subcellular structure, the flagellar organelle. Bacterial flagella propel the cell by rotating, and this rotation is regulated in response to information transmitted by chemoreceptors on the surface of the cell. Rotation is driven by a motor anchored in the cell membrane. To understand such processes as the assembling of flagellar organelles, energy transduction to produce flagellar rotation, and the integration of sensory information necessary for chemotaxis, one prerequisite is the determination of the architecture of flagella. Emphasis is given here to experimental approaches using Escherichia coli and Salmonella in order to identify the flagellar components and to determine how these components are used to construct the functional organelle. The purification of apparently intact organelles has revealed an intricate structure composed of at least 11 polypeptide components. Genetic techniques have been developed which enable the identification of the components of the flagellar system. More than 35 genes which are necessary for flagellar function have been defined in E. coli, and the gene products of 17 of these genes have been identifie. From such genetic studies, it is apparent that the flagellar system is complex and includes many elements in addition to those found in the intact flagellar structures purified from the cell membrane. Proteins required for energy and sensory transduction have been identified and located in the cytoplasm and cell membrane. Since these components are not integral parts of the isolated organelle, it is clear that flagellar movement requires the interaction of several functionally distinct and spatially separate systems. The organelle appears to be constructed in discrete stages consisting of the sequential association of individual components. As with bacteriophage assembly, some flagellar protein function not as structural components, but to regulate the assembly of the organelle. A structural variation is found in Salmonella, which have te ability to alternately express one of two components of the flagellar filament. The unique genetic control mechanism regulating this structural variation is discussed.
2823922|The basic chromatin fiber is composed of a tandem array of nucleosomes, adjacement nucleosomes being separated by a variable amount of DNA. In vivo, this fiber is folden to form a higher-order fiber with a diameter of 200 to 300 A. The distribution of nucleosomes within the higher-order fiber has been analyzed in negatively stained preparations of chromatin fibers released from metaphase cells or interphase nuclei by mechanical disruption. The fiber appears to be composed of discrete packing domains in each of which there is a high density of closely apposed nucleosomes; within these regions several discrete packing patterns are observed. Adjacent domaisn are connected by regions of the fiber which are thinner and contain a lower density of nucleosomes. From these observations we suggest that the 200 to 300 A fiber is mosaic and that domains differ from each other in composition so as to confer sequence specificity upon the structure. In addition, compositional differences may have relevance to the functional state of the underlying genes; thus, higher order structure of a region is related to its functional state. Above this level organization, studies on the early stages of chromatin folding in meiotic prophase suggest that 200 to 300 A fibers are organized as loops which emanate from the longitudinal axis of the chromosome, in a manner consistent with a model for mitotic chromosome folding by means of radial loop formation. Active ribosomal RNA genes are identifiable in these preparations and appear to be organized in a similar fashion; each active gene appears to comprise a loop of chromatin.
2823918|For much of its history, molecular biology has concerned itself with the implications and consequences of the "Central Dogma" (Crick, 1958): DNA  RNA  protein. This "pathway" is of course atypical in that it describes, not chemical interconversions, but rather the flow of information from gene to product. It has been only recently appreciated, however, that in those cases where the final gene product is an RNA molecule, this pathway is not simply truncated. To the contrary, in virtually every instance for which sufficient data are now available, it is found that the RNA transcript is subject to a series of reactions in which the primary gene product undergoes nucleotide additions, deletions, and modifications. The set of biosynthetic reactions that intervene between transciption of the gene and production of the mature functional product is collectively referred to as RNA processing. It now appears that the existence of these complex biosynthetic events cannot always be adequately explained by the necessity to overcome otherwise insurmountable topological or energetic constraints: the final product can, at least in some cases, "self-assemble." The genesis of transfer RNA by this indirect route appears to insure the delivery of a functional product, at the right rate, at the right time. We suggest, moreover, that this process is primarily determined by recognition of some of the same structural elements in the precursor that are required for the function of the mature tRNA molecule.
2823920|Historically a gap has existed between the study of the one-dimensional organization of hereditary information in genes, and of the three-dimensional organization of macromolecules in biological structures. In this article we describe progress in closing this gap through the genetic and biochemical analysis of the assemby of the icosahedral shells of spherical viruses, a class of subcellular strucutres whose subunit organization is relatively well understood. The genes specifying the proteins required for capsid assembly have been identified for many bacterial viruses. By using mutants defective in these genes, it has been possible to identify intermediates in shell morphogenesi and DNA condensation, and to unravel the different levels of the genetic control of macromolecualr assembly processes. In general, a precursor shell or procapsid is first constructed, and the DNA is subsequently coiled within it. The construction of a closed shell poses as difficult a problem for a virus as for an architect. In the well-studied bacteriophage P22 of Salmonella typhimurium, the construction of the procapsid requires the interaction of about 200 molecules of the gene-8 scaffolding protein with 420 molecules of the gene-5 coat protein, forming a double-shelled structure with the scaffolding protein on the inside. Once completed, procapsids undergo substantial alteration in the course of encapsulating the viral DNA. In P22, the initiation of DNA packaging triggers the exit of all of the scaffolding molecules from within the capsid, probably through the coat-protein lattice. These released molecules are re-ulitized, interacting with newly synthesized coat subunits to form further procapsids. Thus, the scaffolding protein functions catalytically in capsid assembly. All of the well-studied DNA phages require a scaffolding protein species for procapsid assembly, though their properties vary. Purified coat and scaffolding subunits by themselves show little tendency to polymerize, and are stable as monomers in solution. Upon mixing together under the appropriate conditions, however, the proteins copolymerize into double shells. Their interaction with each other appears to be critical for efficient assembly; this interaction probably occurs on the edges of growing shells, and not among subunits in solution. We have termed this kind of process, which we previously described in T4 tail morphogenesis, self-regulated assembly. The subunits are synthesized in a nonreactive form and are activated, not in solution, but upon incorporation into the growing substrate structure. A number of further transformations of the capsid subunits occur only within the organized structrue and not as free subunits. Thus, aspects of the genetic information controlling the assembly process are not fully expressed at the level of the properties of protein subunits, but become manifest only through interactions with other proteins, or at a higher level, after completion of the correct organized structure.
2823919|The Sequence of steps in bacteriophage T4 assembly has been elucidated by using a combination of genetic, biochemical, and ultrastructural techniques. The phage head, tail, and tail fibers are assembled via independent pathways, and then are joined to form the complete virus. Current knowledge of these three patways is reviewed briefly. Two general insights emerging from phage assembly studies are (1) a realization of the importance of kinetic controls, and (2) recognition of the role of nonstructural accessory proteins in assembly. Controls of protein association rates by a proposed heterocooperativity mechanism can account for the strict sequential ordering of steps in complex self-assembly pathways such as that of T4 tail assembly. The same mechanism can explain how proteins capable of polymorphic assembly are induced to form correct structures rather than aberrant ones of similar stability. Nonstructural accessory proteins provide additional means for enhancing rates of interactions of specific structural proteins by mechanisms that may be analogous to those of enzyme catalysis. The insights gained from bacteriophage assembly probably apply to organellogenesis in general.
2823917|There is considerable difficulty in understanding how the plant is formed out of the seed or any animal out of the semen....[Aristotle, On the Generation of Animals.]
2823792|The effects of the parasitoid on the development, behavior, physiology, and morphology of the host have been described and often attributed to the feeding larvae within the host. It has become increasingly clear that these effects on the host are often due to factors injected into the host by the ovipositing female. This realization, along with the realization that the host is often dramatically altered after oviposition by the parasitoid, has given rise to the concept of host regulation as one of the key aspects of parasitoidism. The physiological and biochemical changes that occur after parasitoidism are described. These include paralysis; changes in growth, feeding, and development; changes in hemolymph solutes, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, nitrogen metabolism and excretion; as well as changes in select tissues including the endocrine and reproductive system of the host. The sources of the factors that may elicit these changes are discussed and include the role of the adult female, her progeny, and associated teratocytes.
2823791|Metastasis, the spread of neoplastic cells from a primary site to distant organs, is responsible for the majority of cancer deaths. Dissemination of malignant cells throughout the body and their survival to form secondary growths is a complicated process dependent on both host and tumor properties. Although a primary tumor may release many cells, only a few survive the interactions with host defense mechanisms to yield distant cancer growths. In recent years a considerable body of evidence has accumulated which suggests that the survival of these few cells is not a random event. Rather, it represents the selection of a pre-existent metastatic subpopulation of tumor cells within the parental population. Such a process has profound implications in determining approaches to therapy and to the elucidation of those tumor-cell properties which are responsible for successful metastatic spread. These implications are discussed within the framework of what is at present known about the pathogenesis of cancer metastasis.
2824738|The review discusses some consequences of the widespread partial uncoupling of the reproduction of organelle DNA from of nuclear DNA. I propose that in certain circumstances natural selection favors intraorganismal reproductive competition between different varieties of organelle DNA, and in other circumstances selection favors competition between organelle and nuclear DNA. Evidence is marshalled to show that such competition occurs in nature. Situations which would lead to selection for both kinds of competition are described and are shown to be relatively common. A number of examples of apparent competition of predicted kinds are presented. Several testable predictions are made from the theory, and it is shown that the available data are in accord with them. Similar kinds of reproductive competition are predicted to occur in some other symbiotic relationships, and possible examples are presented for two of them: bacterial plasmids and endozoic algae.
2824739|This review is concerned with the morphegenetic interactions which occur during the development of the so-called epithelio-mesenchymal organs. The nature of the mesenchymal requirement for epithelial growth and morphogenesis is presented. The curren status of cell-cell communication which occurs during morphogenetic interactions, as well as the role of intracellular and extracelluar components in morphogenesis, are considered. Particular attention is given to a detailed analysis of the possible role that cell proliferation may play in determining morphogenetic patterns, an aspect that has hitherto received little consideration. Finally, a model for morphogenesis is proposed which endeavors to account for the regulatory roles previously assigned to the intracellular and extracellular components of epithelio-mesenchymal organs, and which includes a role for cell proliferation in this developmental process.
2664127|Traits correlated with male mating success are likely to be subject to sexual selection. Sexually selected characters are thought to be costly to develop and maintain. If males do not vary their investment in sexual traits in relation to their ability to bear the costs, there should be a negative relationship between male longevity or survival and the expression of sexual traits. In particular, a negative relationship is predicted by pure Fisherian models for the evolution of sexual ornaments. The same should also be true for traits that evolve via pleiotropy (e.g., due to sensory exploitation or bias) with no subsequent evolution of condition dependent modification. We collected information on the relationship between traits correlated with male mating rate and estimates of adult male survivorship or life span. In total we obtained 122 samples from 69 studies of 40 species of bird, spider, insect, and fish. In a meta-analysis we calculated the average sample size weighted correlation between trait expression and adult survival. Analyses at the level of samples, studies, and species revealed significant positive relationships (r = 0.08, 0.10, and 0.13, respectively; all P < 0.001). The unweighted correlation at the species level was r = 0.24. In general, males with larger ornaments or weapons, greater body size, or higher rates of courtship showed greater survivorship or longevity. This finding is inconsistent with pure Fisherian models or other models that do not incorporate condition or quality dependent trait expression. It suggests that male investment in sexually selected traits is not fixed but varies in relation to the ability to pay the underlying costs of expressing these characters. Hence, many secondary sexual characters are likely to be condition dependent in their expression.
3071179|Fitness varies nonlinearly with environmental variables such as temperature, water availability, and nutrition, with maximum fitness at intermediate levels between more stressful extremes. For environmental agents that are highly toxic at exposures that substantially exceed background levels, fitness is maximized at concentrations near zero-a phenomenon often referred to as hormesis. Two main components are suggested: (1) background hormesis, which derives from the direct adaptation of organisms to their habitats; and (2) stress-derived hormesis, which derives from metabolic reserves that are maintained as an adaptation to environmental stresses through evolutionary time. These reserves provide protection from lesser correlated stresses. This article discusses illustrative examples, including ethanol and ionizing radiation, aimed at placing hormesis into an ecological and evolutionary context. A unifying approach comes from fitness-stress continua that underlie responses to abiotic variables, whereby selection for maximum metabolic efficiency and hence fitness in adaptation to habitats in nature underlies hormetic zones. Within this reductionist model, more specific metabolic mechanisms to explain hormesis are beginning to emerge, depending upon the agent and the taxon in question. Some limited research possibilities based upon this evolutionary perspective are indicated.
3071178|The studies of Clausen, Keck, and Hiesey (CKH) have been widely cited as exemplars of ecotypic differentiation in textbooks and in the primary literature. However, the scope of their findings and achievements is significantly greater than this. In this paper we analyze the research program of CKH, highlighting their major findings during the years when the modern synthesis of evolution was taking shape. That synthesis, curiously, drew little from their examples, although their studies at the Carnegie Institution represent conceptual and methodological work that is still relevant. The works of CKH not only embodied the principles of the nascent synthesis, but often provided needed supporting data. Their classic work, especially on Achillea and Potentilla, produced abundant evidence on population differentiation of many quantitative traits and plant phenotypes, as well as demonstrating the now commonly reported distinction between environmental and genetic determination of traits. Their ecological genetic investigations of quantitative traits in plants were in sharp contrast to contemporaneous animal studies on adaptation that focused on discrete polymorphisms-with correspondingly little influence of the environment on phenotypic expression. Of utmost importance was the demonstration by CKH of adaptive differentiation by natural selection and their approaches to understanding the genetic structure of populations.
3071177|This article surveys progress in Darwinian medicine since 1991. Evolutionary thinking has been providing an increasing flow of fresh ideas into medical science, ideas that would not be suggested by other perspectives. Recent contributions have shed new light on the evolution of virulence, of antibiotic resistance, of oocytic atresia, of menopause, of the timing of the expression of genetic disease, of links between mate choice and disease resistance, and of genomic conflict between mother and fetus over resource provisioning. An important consequence of changes from the environment of evolutionary adaptedness concerns reproductive cancers; the incidence of reproductive cancers may be linked to changes in the frequency of menstruation in postindustrial societies. Other intriguing developments include some unanticipated and undesirable consequences of good hygiene, hope from an unexpected quarter for progress on nerve and muscle regeneration, evolutionary interpretations of mental disease, and insights from functional genomics into the nature of tradeoffs. The application of evolutionary thinking to problems in medical research and practice has thus yielded an abundant and growing harvest of insights. Some are well founded, others remain speculative. The field is moving from an initial phase dominated by speculation and hypothesis formation into a more rigorous phase of experimental testing of explicit alternatives. Currently the most promising areas, those in which experimental rigor can be applied efficiently, include experimental evolution and functional genomics. The pioneers can be proud of what they have set in motion.
2664003|Cultivation of fungus for food originated about 45-65 million years ago in the ancestor of fungus-growing ants (Formicidae, tribe Attini), representing an evolutionary transition from the life of a hunter-gatherer of arthropod prey, nectar, and other plant juices, to the life of a farmer subsisting on cultivated fungi. Seven hypotheses have been suggested for the origin of attine fungiculture, each differing with respect to the substrate used by the ancestral attine ants for fungal cultivation. Phylogenetic information on the cultivated fungi, in conjunction with information on the nesting biology of extant attine ants and their presumed closest relatives, reveal that the attine ancestors probably did not encounter their cultivars-to-be in seed stores (von Ihering 1894), in rotting wood (Forel 1902), as mycorrhizae (Garling 1979), on arthropod corpses (von Ihering 1894) or ant faeces in nest middens (Wheeler 1907). Rather, the attine ant-fungus mutualism probably arose from adventitious interactions with fungi that grew on walls of nests built in leaf litter (Emery 1899), or from a system of fungal myrmecochory in which specialized fungi relied on ants for dispersal (Bailey 1920) and in which the ants fortuitously vectored these fungi from parent to offspring nests prior to a true fungicultural stage.
2664002|In this review, we present a new conceptual framework for the study of play behavior, a hitherto puzzling array of seemingly purposeless and unrelated behavioral elements that are recognizable as play throughout the mammalian lineage. Our major new functional hypothesis is that play enables animals to develop flexible kinematic and emotional responses to unexpected events in which they experience a sudden loss of control. Specifically, we propose that play functions to increase the versatility of movements used to recover from sudden shocks such as loss of balance and falling over, and to enhance the ability of animals to cope emotionally with unexpected stressful situations. To obtain this "training for the unexpected," we suggest that animals actively seek and create unexpected situations in play through self-handicapping; that is, deliberately relaxing control over their movements or actively putting themselves into disadvantageous positions and situations. Thus, play is comprised of sequences in which the players switch rapidly between well-controlled movements similar to those used in "serious" behavior and self-handicapping movements that result in temporary loss of control. We propose that this playful switching between in-control and out-of-control elements is cognitively demanding, setting phylogenetic and ontogenetic constraints on play, and is underlain by neuroendocrinological responses that produce a complex emotional state known as "having fun." Furthermore, we propose that play is often prompted by relatively novel or unpredictable stimuli, and is thus related to, although distinct from, exploration. We present 24 predictions that arise from our new theoretical framework, examining the extent to which they are supported by the existing empirical evidence and contrasting them with the predictions of four major alternative hypotheses about play. We argue that our "training for the unexpected" hypothesis can account for some previously puzzling kinematic, structural, motivational, emotional, cognitive, social, ontogenetic, and phylogenetic aspects of play. It may also account for a diversity of individual methods for coping with unexpected misfortunes.
2664846|Annual changes in daylength figure prominently in the generation of seasonal rhythms in reproduction, and a wide variety of mammals use ambient photoperiod as a proximate cue to time critical reproductive events. Nevertheless, within many reproductively photoperiodic mammalian species, there exist individuals-termed "photoperiod nonresponders"-that fail to adopt a seasonal breeding strategy and instead exhibit reproductive competence at a time of year when their conspecifics are reproductively quiescent. Photoperiod nonresponsiveness has been principally characterized by laboratory observations-over half of the species known to be reproductively photoperiodic contain a proportion of nonresponsive individuals. The study of nonresponders has generated basic insights regarding photic regulation of reproduction in mammals. The neuroendocrine mechanisms by which the short-day photoperiodic signal is degraded or lost in nonresponders varies between species: differences in features of the circadian pacemaker, which provides photoperiodic input to the reproductive neuroendocrine system, have been identified in hamsters; changes in the responsiveness of hypothalamic gonadotrophs to melatonin and as-yet-unspecified inhibitory signals have been implicated in voles and mice. Individuals that continue to breed when their conspecifics refrain might enjoy higher fitness under certain circumstances. Statements regarding the adaptive function of reproductive nonresponsiveness to photoperiod require additional information on the costs (metabolic and fitness) of sustaining reproductive function during the winter months and how these costs vary as a function of environmental conditions. Reproductive nonresponders thus continue to represent a challenge to theories that extol the adaptive function of seasonality. Several nonexclusive hypotheses are proposed to account for the maintenance of nonresponsive individuals in wild rodent populations.
2664497|Evolutionary origins of alcohol consumption have rarely been considered in studies of ethanol addiction. However, the occurrence of ethanol in ripe and decaying fruit and the substantial heritability of alcoholism in humans suggest an important historical association between primate frugivory and alcohol consumption. Olfactory localization of ripe fruit via volatilized alcohols, the use of ethanol as an appetitive stimulant, and the consumption of fruits with substantial ethanol content potentially characterize all frugivorous primates, including hominoids and the lineage leading to modern humans. Patterns of alcohol use by humans in contemporary environments may thus reflect a maladaptive co-option of ancestral nutritional strategies. Although diverse factors contribute to the expression of alcoholism as a clinical syndrome, historical selection for the consumption of ethanol in the course of frugivory can be viewed as a subtle yet pervasive evolutionary influence on modern humans.
2664498|Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most commonly diagnosed psychiatric condition. Many believe that the central disability is impaired inhibition, which leads to reduced abilities in social skills, self-control, organization and time management. The behaviors identified by clinicians as problematic-inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity-have been incorporated into several evolutionary models as selectively adaptive cognitive skills for surviving the challenges of a variable Pleistocene environment. We propose that the "disabilities" exhibited by individuals with ADHD are maladaptive, and we concur with Barkley that there is a central impairment in the behavioral inhibition system. The underlying neural anatomy and physiology support the possibility that neurotransmitter pathology may have an impact on other interlinked systems (including language), and may also account for the frequent comorbidity of aggression, anxiety, depression, and learning disabilities (many of which are language-related). Language skills compete with other cognitive activities for the attentional system, and thus the evolution of language could not in fact be independent of the evolution of attention. If language represents the ultimate expression of the attentional system, and some individuals with ADHD are seriously impaired in the coordination of interlinked neural systems (including language), then ADHD fits Jerome Wakefield's definition of "harmful dysfunction," and communication impairments should be investigated more thoroughly by clinicians.
2664968|It is widely agreed that fecundity selection and sexual selection are the major evolutionary forces that select for larger body size in most organisms. The general, equilibrium view is that selection for large body size is eventually counterbalanced by opposing selective forces. While the evidence for selection favoring larger body size is overwhelming, counterbalancing selection favoring small body size is often masked by the good condition of the larger organism and is therefore less obvious. The suggested costs of large size are: (1) viability costs in juveniles due to long development and/or fast growth; (2) viability costs in adults and juveniles due to predation, parasitism, or starvation because of reduced agility, increased detectability, higher energy requirements, heat stress, and/or intrinsic costs of reproduction; (3) decreased mating success of large males due to reduced agility and/or high energy requirements; and (4) decreased reproductive success of large females and males due to late reproduction. A review of the literature indicates a substantial lack of empirical evidence for these various mechanisms and highlights the need for experimental studies that specifically address the fitness costs of being large at the ecological, physiological, and genetic levels. Specifically, theoretical investigations and comprehensive case studies of particular model species are needed to elucidate whether sporadic selection in time and space is sufficient to counterbalance perpetual and strong selection for large body size.
2664969|We review the literature on centrioles, kinetosomes, and other microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs) in animal, plant, and protist cells in the context of the Henneguy-Lenhossk theory of 1899. This 100-year-old cytological theory, valid today, defines centrioles and kinetosomes as identical, homologous but developmentally distinguishable structures. Centrioles (paired constituents of mitotic centrosomes in animal cells) become kinetosomes (ciliary basal bodies) when their 9(2)+2 microtubular axonemes grow outward. During mitosis in Chlamydomonas, the kinetosomes are segregated at the poles of the mitotic spindle. Mitotic centrioles function as organelles of motility in many protists, though nowhere is this centriole-kinetosome relation more clearly seen than in the karyomastigont structure (kinetosome-nucleus-Golgi complex organellar system) of the trichomonads and other amitochondriate parabasalids. Constituent sequences of mitotic spindle-centriole-kinetosome proteins (-tubulin, pericentrin, and the cyclin-dependent kinases Cdc2 and Cdc3, members of the centrin family) are conserved across taxa, occurring in animal and protist centrioles, plant MTOCs, and fungal spindle pole bodies. We review ultrastructural and molecular data on these and other important MTOC proteins, and present a model whereby the cytological arrangement of centrioles (i.e., orthogonal pairs as in centrosomes) may have originated. We compare and contrast endogenous and exogenous (bacterial symbiont integration) models for the evolution of centriole-kinetosomes (c-ks), with illustrative examples from Kingdom Protoctista.
2664253|Leading Moravian sheep breeders, who joined with university professors and other educated citizens to form a Sheep Breeders' Society in 1814, looked to science to provide a reliable basis for breeding. Their activities reached a climax in the 1830s, when they defined and focused on heredity as the central research goal. Among the members taking part was Abbot Cyrill F Napp, who in 1843 would accept Mendel into the monastery. The contributions of Abbot Napp to the sheep breeders' view of heredity are here described. After 1900, when Moravian animal breeding sought to embrace Mendelism, in competition with other theories, a major influence was exerted by Jaroslav Krizenecky (1896-1964). In 1963, Krizenecky accepted responsibility for establishing the Mendel Museum (Mendelianum) in Brno as a vehicle for historical research into the origin and essence of Mendel's discovery.
2664252|Approximately two-thirds of women experience nausea or vomiting during the first trimester of pregnancy. These symptoms are commonly known as morning sickness. Hook (1976) and Profet (1988) hypothesized that morning sickness protects the embryo by causing pregnant women to physically expel and subsequently avoid foods that contain teratogenic and abortifacient chemicals, especially toxic chemicals in strong-tasting vegetables, caffeinated beverages and alcohol. We examined this hypothesis by comprehensively reviewing the relevant medical, psychological and anthropological literature. In its support, (i) symptoms peak when embryonic organogenesis is most susceptible to chemical disruption (weeks 6-18), (ii) women who experience morning sickness are significantly less likely to miscarry than women who do not (9 of 9 studies), (iii) women who vomit suffer fewer miscarriages than those who experience nausea alone, and (iv) many pregnant women have aversions to alcoholic and nonalcoholic (mostly caffeinated) beverages and strong-tasting vegetables, especially during the first trimester. Surprisingly, however, the greatest aversions are to meats, fish, poultry, and eggs. A cross-cultural analysis using the Human Relations Area Files revealed 20 traditional societies in which morning sickness has been observed and seven in which it has never been observed. The latter were significantly less likely to have animal products as dietary staples and significantly more likely to have only plants (primarily corn) as staples than the 20 societies in which morning sickness occurred. Animal products may be dangerous to pregnant women and their embryos because they often contain parasites and pathogens, especially when stored at room temperatures in warm climates. Avoiding foodborne microorganisms is particularly important to pregnant women because they are immunosuppressed, presumably to reduce the chances of rejecting tissues of their own offspring (Haig 1993). As a result, pregnant women are more vulnerable to serious, often deadly infections. We hypothesize that morning sickness causes women to avoid foods that might be dangerous to themselves or their embryos, especially foods that, prior to widespread refrigeration, were likely to be heavily laden with microorganisms and their toxins. The alternative hypotheses that morning sickness is (i) an epiphenomenon of mother-offspring genetic conflict or hormones associated with viable pregnancies, or (ii) an indicator to potential sexual partners and kin that the woman is pregnant, resulting in reduced sexual behavior and increased nepotistic aid, were not well supported. Available data are most consistent with the hypothesis that morning sickness serves an adaptive, prophylactic function.
2665190|Parasitism is one of the most successful modes of life displayed by living organisms, as measured by how often it evolved and how many parasitic species are presently in existence. Studying the diversity of parasites is particularly relevant because sympatric diversification may be important in some parasite taxa, and because of the opportunity for independent tests of evolutionary hypotheses in the many separate lineages in which parasitism evolved. Our incomplete knowledge of existing parasite species-the result of a range of phenomena that includes inadequate sampling effort or the lumping of different cryptic species under one name-is not always a major obstacle for the study of parasite diversity. Patterns in the diversity of parasites may be associated with either host or parasite characteristics. The distribution of parasite diversity among host taxa does not simply reflect the species diversity of the host taxa themselves; life history and ecological traits of hosts appear to play important roles. These may determine the likelihood that hosts are colonized by parasite species over evolutionary time. It is not yet clear whether some host traits also favor intrahost speciation and diversification of parasites, and the formation of new parasite species. Certain features of parasites may also be associated with speciation and diversification. Only parasite body size has received much attention; the patterns observed are not greatly different from those of free-living species, with small-bodied parasite taxa being more speciose than related large-bodied taxa. Epidemiological parameters such as the basic reproductive rate of parasites, or R<sub>0</sub>, can also generate predictions regarding the distribution or evolution of parasite diversity. For instance, parasite taxa characterized by high R<sub>0</sub> values may be more speciose than related taxa with lower values of R<sub>0</sub>; such predictions remain untested. Large-scale biogeographical patterns of diversity have only been well studied for metazoan parasites of marine fish; for these parasites, latitudinal patterns can be explained by effects of temperature on speciation rates and epidemiological variables, though other causes are possible. The emphasis for future research must shift from pattern description to the elucidation of the processes responsible for the structure and diversity of parasite faunas. A better integration of ecological and historical (or phylogenetic) approaches to the study of parasite diversity should make this objective possible.
2665189|Conventional models predict that low genetic relatedness among parasites that coinfect the same host leads to the evolution of high parasite virulence. Such models assume adaptive responses to hard selection only. We show that if soft selection is allowed to operate, low relatedness leads instead to the evolution of low virulence. With both hard and soft selection, low relatedness increases the conflict among coinfecting parasites. Although parasites can only respond to hard selection by evolving higher virulence and overexploiting their host, they can respond to soft selection by evolving other adaptations, such as interference, that prevent overexploitation. Because interference can entail a cost, the host may actually be underexploited, and virulence will decrease as a result of soft selection. Our analysis also shows that responses to soft selection can have a much stronger effect than responses to hard selection. After hard selection has raised virulence to a level that is an evolutionarily stable strategy, the population, as expected, cannot be invaded by more virulent phenotypes that respond only to hard selection. The population remains susceptible to invasion by a less virulent phenotype that responds to soft selection, however. Thus, hard and soft selection are not just alternatives. Rather, soft selection is expected to prevail and often thwart the evolution of virulence in parasites. We review evidence from several parasite systems and find support for soft selection. Most of the examples involve interference mechanisms that indirectly prevent the evolution of higher virulence. We recognize that hard selection for virulence is more difficult to document, but we take our results to suggest that a kin selection model with soft selection may have general applicability.
2665188|A variety of natural products and synthetic chemicals, known collectively as endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs), mimic or interfere with the mechanisms that govern vertebrate reproductive development and function. At present, research has focused on (i) the morphological and functional consequences of EDCs; (ii) identifying and determining the relative potencies of synthetic and steroidal compounds that have endocrine-disrupting effects; (iii) the mechanism of action of EDCs at the molecular level; and (iv) the recognition that in "real life," contamination usually reflects mixtures of EDCs. Future research must examine (i) the interactive nature of EDCs, particularly whether the threshold concept as developed in traditional toxicological research applies to these chemicals; (ii) when and how EDCs act at the physiological level, particularly how they may organize the neural substrates of reproductive physiology and behavior; (iii) the various effects these compounds have on different species, individuals, and even tissues; and (iv) how adaptations may evolve in natural populations with continued exposure to EDCs. Several predictions are offered that reflect these new perspectives. Specifically, (i) the threshold assumption will be found not to apply to EDCs because they mimic the actions of endogenous molecules (e.g., estrogen) critical to development; hence, the threshold is automatically exceeded with exposure. (ii) Behavior can compound and magnify the effects of EDCs over successive generations; that is, bioaccumulated EDCs inherited from the mother not only influence the morphological and physiological development of the offspring but also the offsprings' reproductive behavior as adults. This adult behavior, in turn, can have further consequences on the sexual development of their own young. (iii) The sensitivity of a species or an individual to a compound is related to species (individual)-typical concentrations of circulating gonadal steroid hormones. Related to this is the recent finding that alternate forms of the putative receptors are differentially distributed, thereby contributing to the different effects that have been observed. (iv) Except in extraordinary situations, populations often continue to exist in contaminated sites. One possible explanation for this observation that needs to be considered is that animals can rapidly adapt to the nature and level of contamination in their environment. It is unlikely that successive generations coincidentally become insensitive to gonadal steroid hormones fundamentally important as biological regulators of development and reproduction. Rather, adaptive alterations in the genes that encode steroid receptors may occur with chronic exposure to EDCs, allowing the sex hormone receptor to discriminate natural steroids from EDCs.
10.1086/596461|Studies of mate choice in vertebrates have focused principally on birds, in which male ornaments are often highly developed, and have shown that females commonly select mates on the basis of particular phenotypic characteristics that may reflect their genetic quality. Studies of female mate choice in mammals are less highly developed, and they have commonly focused on female mating preferences that are likely to be maintained by benefits to the female's own survival or breeding success. However, recent experimental studies of mate choice in mammalsespecially rodentsprovide increasing evidence of consistent female preferences that appear likely to generate benefits to the fitness of offspring. As yet, there is no compelling evidence that female mating preferences are less highly developed in female mammals than in female birds, although these preferences may more often be masked by the effects of male competition or of attempts by males to constrain female choice.
10.1086/596463|Sensory organs represent the interface between the central nervous system of organisms and the environment in which they live. To date, we still lack a true integration of ecological and evolutionary perspectives in our understanding of many sensory systems. We argue that scientists working in sensory ecology should expand the bridge between sensory and evolutionary biology, and, in working toward this goal, we advocate a combination of the experimental rigor of the sensory physiologist with population-based as well as evolutionary views.
10.1086/596462|In this paper, we discuss, from both biological and cultural perspectives, the ancient human-plant liaison that gave rise to Near Eastern agriculture. We explain the biological aspects of Near Eastern plant domestication by a comparative analysis of legume vs. cereal crop evolution. This comparison is illustrated by the natural distribution, ecological affinity, physiology, population structure, floral biology, growth habit, plant stature, seed dispersal mode, and seed dormancy of both wild and domesticated plants of these crop groups. We discuss the differences between Near Eastern legumes and cereals with regard to each of the above aspects, and we highlight the relevance of these differences with regard to Neolithic decision-making, adoption for farming, and subsequent evolution under domestication. We reached the following conclusions: (1) Near Eastern legumes underwent different evolutionary trajectories under domestication as compared with their companion cereals, despite apparent similarities between selection under domestication of both crop groups. (2) Careful comparison of pea, lentil, and chickpea shows that each of the Near Eastern legume crops has a unique evolutionary history in its own right, and this also holds true for the cereal crops. (3) The evolutionary history of each of the Near Eastern crops, prior to as well as after domestication, is well-reflected in its adaptation profile in present-day cropping systems, which determines each crop's relative economic importance in different world regions (e.g., chickpea is a major pulse in the Indian subcontinent, and pea is a more important crop in temperate regions, while barley has the widest adaptation, extending from high-latitude temperate regions to semi-arid Mediterranean systems). (4) Ancient choice-making, as reflected in the founder crops repertoire, involved nutritional considerations that may have outweighed grain yield per area and/or time unit criteria.
QRB1311|Biogeographers study all patterns in the geographic variation of life, from the spatial variation in genetic and physiological characteristics of cells and individuals, to the diversity and dynamics of biological communities among continental biotas or across oceanic archipelagoes. The field of island biogeography, in particular, has provided some genuinely transformative insights for the biological sciences, especially ecology and evolutionary biology. Our purpose here is to review the historical development of island biogeography theory during the 20th century by identifying the common threads that run through four sets of contributions made during this period, including those by
QRB1541|Contemporary Darwinian medicine is a stillexpanding new discipline, one of whose principal aims is to arrive at an evolutionary understanding of those aspects of the body that leave it vulnerable to disease. Historically, there was a precedent for this research; between 1880 and 1940, several scientists tried to develop some general evolutionary theories of disease as arising from deleterious traits that escape elimination by natural selection. In contrast, contemporary Darwinian medicine uses evolutionary theory to consider all the possible reasons why selection has left humans vulnerable to disease.
10.1086/598822|This review describes new developments in the study of transgenerational epigenetic inheritance, a component of epigenetics. We start by examining the basic concepts of the field and the mechanisms that underlie epigenetic inheritance. We present a comprehensive review of transgenerational cellular epigenetic inheritance among different taxa in the form of a table, and discuss the data contained therein. The analysis of these data shows that epigenetic inheritance is ubiquitous and suggests lines of research that go beyond present approaches to the subject. We conclude by exploring some of the consequences of epigenetic inheritance for the study of evolution, while also pointing to the importance of recognizing and understanding epigenetic inheritance for practical and theoretical issues in biology.
10.1086/605079|Character displacement is the process by which traits evolve in response to selection to lessen resource competition or reproductive interactions between species. Although character displacement has long been viewed as an important mechanism for enabling closely related species to coexist, the causes and consequences of character displacement have not been fully explored. Moreover, character displacement in traits associated with resource use (ecological character displacement) has been largely studied independently of that in traits associated with reproduction (reproductive character displacement). In this review, we underscore the commonalities of these two forms of character displacement and discuss how they interact. We focus on the causes of character displacement and explore how character displacement can have downstream effects ranging from speciation to extinction. In short, understanding how organisms respond to competitive and reproductive interactions with heterospecifics offers key insights into the evolutionary causes and consequences of species coexistence and diversification.
10.1086/605078|Communal egg-laying is widespread among animals, occurring in insects, mollusks, fish, amphibians, reptiles, and birds, just to name a few. While some benefits of communal egg-laying may be pervasive (e.g., it saves time and energy and may ensure the survival of mothers and their offspring), the remarkable diversity in the life histories of the animals that exhibit this behavior presents a great challenge to discovering any general explanation. Reptiles and amphibians offer ideal systems for investigating communal egg-laying because they generally lack parental carea simplification that brings nest site choice behavior into sharp focus. We exhaustively reviewed the published literature for data on communal egg-laying in reptiles and amphibians. Our analysis demonstrates that the behavior is much more common than previously recognized (occurring in 481 spp.), especially among lizards (N = 255 spp.), where the behavior has evolved multiple times. Our conceptual review strongly suggests that different forces may be driving the evolution and maintenance of communal egg-laying in different taxa. Using a game theory approach, we demonstrate how a stable equilibrium may occur between solitary and communal layers, thus allowing both strategies to co-exist in some populations, and we discuss factors that may influence these proportions. We conclude by outlining future research directions for determining the proximate and ultimate causes of communal egg-laying.
QRB4527|Paradoxically, men report better health and quality of life than women, but men experience higher mortality rates than women at most ages. One conclusion from these findings is that men have been selected to disregard signs of ill health, or even to deceive themselves about their health, to their detriment because presenting themselves as healthy has fitness benefits. We hypothesize that men have been sexually selected to present themselves to women as healthy but that the cost of not attending to their minor health problems results in earlier mortality than women. We present a review of the human and primate literature that supports health selection theory, the hypothesis that females have preferentially selected males who present themselves as healthy.
QRB4872|Environmental sex reversal (ESR), which results in a mismatch between genotypic and phenotypic sex, is well documented in numerous fish species and may be induced by chemical exposure. Historically, research involving piscine ESR has been carried out with a view to improving profitability in aquaculture or to elucidate the processes governing sex determination and sexual differentiation. However, recent studies in evolution and ecology suggest research on ESR now has much wider applications and ramifications. We begin with an overview of ESR in fish and a brief review of the traditional applications thereof. We then discuss ESR and its potential demographic consequences in wild populations. Theory even suggests sex-reversed fish may be purposefully released to manipulate population dynamics. We suggest new research directions that may prove fruitful in understanding how ESR at the individual level translates to population-level processes. In the latter portion of the review we focus on evolutionary applications of ESR. Sex-reversal studies from the aquaculture literature provide insight in to the evolvability of determinants of sexual phenotype. Additionally, induced sex reversal can provide information about the evolution of sex chromosomes and sex-linked traits. Recently, naturally occurring ESR has been implicated as a mechanism contributing to the evolution of sex chromosomes.
QRB4898|Ecological succession is arguably the most enduring contribution of plant ecologists and its origins have never been contested. However, we show that French entomologist Pierre Mgnin, while collaborating with medical examiners in the late 1800s, advanced the first formal definition and testable mechanism of ecological succession. This discovery gave birth to the twin disciplines of carrion ecology and forensic entomology. As a novel case of multiple independent discovery, we chronicle how the disciplines of plant and carrion ecology (including forensic entomology) accumulated strikingly similar parallel histories and contributions. In the 1900s, the two groups diverged in methodology and purpose, with carrion ecologists and forensic entomologists focusing mostly on case reports and observational studies instead of hypothesis testing. Momentum is currently growing, however, to develop the ecological framework of forensic entomology and advance carrion ecology theory. Researchers are recognizing the potential of carcasses as subjects for testing not only succession mechanisms (without assuming space-for-time substitution), but also aggregation and coexistence models, diversity-ecosystem function relationships, and the dynamics of pulsed resources. By comparing the contributions of plant and carrion ecologists, we hope to stimulate future crossover research that leads to a general theory of ecological succession.
QRB5201|Organisms adapt developmental and physiological features to local and transient conditions in part by modulating transcription, translation, and protein functions, usually without changing DNA sequences. Remarkably, these epigenetic changes sometimes endure through meiosis and gametogenesis, thereby affecting phenotypic variation across generations, long after epigenetic changes were triggered. Transgenerational effects challenge our traditional understanding of inheritance. In this review, we focus on patterns of inheritance, molecular features, mechanisms that lead from environmental and genetic perturbations to phenotypic variation in later generations, and issues about study design and replication.
QRB5214|The geographic distributions of all species are limited, and the determining factors that set these limits are of fundamental importance to the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology. Plant and animal ranges have been of primary concern, while those of parasites, which represent much of the Earths biodiversity, have been neglected. Here, we review the determinants of the geographic ranges of parasites and pathogens, and explore how parasites provide novel systems with which to investigate the ecological and evolutionary processes governing host/parasite spatial distributions. Although there is significant overlap in the causative factors that determine range borders of parasites and free-living species, parasite distributions are additionally constrained by the geographic range and ecology of the host species population, as well as by evolutionary factors that promote host-parasite coevolution. Recently, parasites have been used to infer population demographic and ecological information about their host organisms and we conclude that this strategy can be further exploited to understand geographic range limitations of both host and parasite populations.
QRB5093|Some adaptationist explanations are regarded as maximally solid and others fanciful just-so stories. Just-so stories are explanations based on very little evidence. Lack of evidence leads to circular-sounding reasoning: this trait was shaped by selection in unseen ancestral populations and this selection must have occurred because the trait is present. Well-supported adaptationist explanations include evidence that is not only abundant but selected from comparative, populational, and optimality perspectives, the three adaptationist subdisciplines. Each subdiscipline obtains its broad relevance in evolutionary biology via assumptions that can only be tested with the methods of the other subdisciplines. However, even in the best-supported explanations, assumptions regarding variation, heritability, and fitness in unseen ancestral populations are always present. These assumptions are accepted given how well they would explain the data if they were true. This means that some degree of circularity is present in all evolutionary explanations. Evolutionary explanation corresponds not to a deductive structure, as biologists usually assert, but instead to ones such as abduction or Bayesianism. With these structures in mind, we show the way to a healthier view of circularity in evolutionary biology and why integration across the comparative, populational, and optimality approaches is necessary.
QRB5085|Broadening contingents of ecologists and environmental scientists have recently begun to promote ecological resilience both as a conceptual framework and as a practical goal. As some critics have noted, this growing interest has brought with it a multiplication of notions of ecological resilience. This paper reviews how and why the notion of ecological resilience has been adopted, used, and defended in ecology since its introduction by C. S. Holling in
QRB4846|Most developmental biologists equate tunicates to the sessile ascidians, including
QRB5215|Evolutionary theory predicts rigorous competition in nature and selfish behavior is thus seen as its inevitable consequence. Evidence of altruistic and cooperative behavior therefore appears at odds with evolutionary theory. However, evolutionary psychology suggests that past environments may be different from the current environments that humans inhabit. Here it is hypothesized that competition in two past environments might have led to strategies that favored altruism and cooperation toward nonkin. First, the expansion of the human brain is seen as requiring long-term, quality parental investment to sustain it. Altruistic displays could well have signaled an ability and willingness to provide such parental investment in a potential mate and been favored as a result. Second, the development of extra-somatic weapons is seen as leading to competition within hominin groups becoming more costly as disputes would have become lethal. A cooperative strategy could have achieved greater net fitness if the benefits of reduced involvement in such lethal disputes exceeded the costs of cooperation. Genes associated with human altruism and cooperation toward nonkin could thus have increased in frequency and come to be expressed in modern human populations despite the environments in which they evolved no longer being fully evident in the modern world.
QRB5135|Microbial model systems have made major contributions across the life sciences. Their influence extends beyond strictly microbiological research to inform and enhance general biological understanding. To cast light on how microbial populations and communities function as model systems, we examine their use in historical and contemporary research on evolutionary and ecological dynamics. We assess the pros and cons of microbial model systems, and identify specific ways in which they benefit research. Analyzing microbial model systems is of particular value as biologists become increasingly aware of the microbial world and its interactions with the rest of life.
QRB5456|We propose that plant foods containing high quantities of starch were essential for the evolution of the human phenotype during the Pleistocene. Although previous studies have highlighted a stone tool-mediated shift from primarily plant-based to primarily meat-based diets as critical in the development of the brain and other human traits, we argue that digestible carbohydrates were also necessary to accommodate the increased metabolic demands of a growing brain. Furthermore, we acknowledge the adaptive role cooking played in improving the digestibility and palatability of key carbohydrates. We provide evidence that cooked starch, a source of preformed glucose, greatly increased energy availability to human tissues with high glucose demands, such as the brain, red blood cells, and the developing fetus. We also highlight the auxiliary role copy number variation in the salivary amylase genes may have played in increasing the importance of starch in human evolution following the origins of cooking. Salivary amylases are largely ineffective on raw crystalline starch, but cooking substantially increases both their energy-yielding potential and glycemia. Although uncertainties remain regarding the antiquity of cooking and the origins of salivary amylase gene copy number variation, the hypothesis we present makes a testable prediction that these events are correlated.
2818612|The Neotropical Region, which is defined on the basis of its living mammals, is comprised of the Brazilian, Patagonian, and West Indian Subregions. The Middle American Province of the Brazilian Subregion was the primary center of origin, evolution, and dispersal for mammals now living in continental South America. The West Indies also derived its fauna from Middle America, and perhaps also from South America. Faunal interchange between these regions must have taken place since the Middle Tertiary, at the latest. By the time the Isthmian land bridge between Middle and South America was completed during the Pliocene-Pleistocene transition, nearly all modern genera of Neotropical mammals were already differentiated within their present geographic ranges. Five faunal strata of Neotropical mammals are identified on the basis of postulated centers of origin of the ancestral stock, dispersal routes of colonizers, known grades of differentiation of living descendents, and the meager fossil evidence. The living fauna is classified ecologically as sylvan, pastoral, fluviatile, and versatile. The faunas of widely separated and ecologically contrasting biotic areas are then described, and some of the biological factors controlling evolution and dispersal are briefly discussed.
2819224|One group of lizards-the iguanid genus Anolis in the West Indies-is now sufficiently well known to permit an empirical test of ecological theories of colonization in terms of these relatively slowly colonizing forms. Investigation of one special aspect-recent colonization of small distant islands-leads to the following conclusions: (1) Succesfully colonizing species are a small and specialized fraction of the number available for colonization. (2) They are "versatile" species-creatures of the ecotone, physiologically and ecologically tolerant of many conditions and requiring of few. (3) Below some critical island size a colonizing species may by ecological release exclude all congeners. In Anolis this size of island is large (e.g., 560 mi
2819438| At the turn of the twentieth century a number of the younger biologists (born after 1860) became dissatisfied with the prevailing interests and methods of research of their elders. An all-consuming interest in evolutionary relationships dominated many fields of biology, including embryology, cytology, genetics, paleontology, and taxonomy. Under the name of "general morphology," work was largely directed at elucidating phylogenetic relationships, often to the exclusion of legitimate problems in the various fields. The heavy emphasis on evolutionary considerations was largely European in origin, having spread to the United States through the many American biologists who were trained abroad in the early and middle nineteenth century. With the rise of American graduate education in the 1870's, a new generation of biologists began to escape the dominant European influences. Thomas Hunt Morgan (1866-1945) offers a good example of the attempt of younger men at this time to emancipate fields such as embryology, genetics, and evolution from the domination of descriptive morphology. In reaction to descriptive and speculative methods of the past, Morgan, in close association with European emigr Jacques Loeb, stronlgy supported and experimental, mechanistic outlook in biology which to some extent foreshadowed the dominant reductivist attitude of the present day. 
2819439|Possible selective advantages, including some new ones, for hermaphroditism are reviewed. It is proposed that hermaphroditism should evolve under the following conditions: (a) where it is hard to find a mate; (b) where one sex benefits from being larger or smaller than the other; or (c) where there are small, genetically isolated populations. Some conceptual problems and a comparative means of study are discussed. The literature is reviewed to show the conditions under which hermaphroditism may have evolved. It is concluded that all thee explanations have some validity.
2819437|A group of papers on the mammalian faunas of Africa, the Neotropical region, and Australia (Quart. Rev. Biol., 43: 265-300; 373-408, 1968; 1-70, 1969) is reviewed from a comparative standpoint and certain general concepts relative to faunal evolution and distribution on those continents are developed. On the basis of current taxonomic information Africa has 51 families and 756 species of mammals, Neotropica 50 and 810, and Australia 18 and 364. If the section of Africa that has a rainfall of less than 5 inches per annum be excluded (the Sahara Desert covers almost one-third of the continent) the number of families and species per 100,000 square miles are comparable: Africa, 0.63 (9.39); Neotropica, 0.70 (11.3); Australia, 0.55 (11.03). Africa has the most diversified fauna. Neotropica owes its numerical richness to large faunas of rodents and bats. Stemming from their different basal stocks and different histories of isolation and faunistic interchange with adjacent continents, the three continents differ fundamentally in their faunal compositions, levels of endemism and dominant groups. Differences in rainfall and degree of development of different vegetation types (present and former) explain the predominantly savannah nature of the Africa fauna and the prominence of rain forest elements in Neotropica. The impoverishment of the Neotropical large mammal fauna, however, must be explained partly on historic grounds (extinction without replacement). Factors affecting faunistic richness include continental area, latitudinal position, percentage of the continent lying within the tropics, relative amounts of tropical rain forest, savannah, and desert, degree of biotic and physiographic diversity, past opportunities for acquiring new species from outside, and for evolving new ones within the continent. Although the continents differ greatly in these factors, some degree of balance is discernible in the number of species occupying the various major adaptive zones or ways of life. Thus, small terrestrial omnivores and rabbit-sized terrestrial herbivores make up about the same percentages of the total fauna of each continent. One of the most striking events in the evolution of Southern Hemisphere faunas was the colonization of South America by North American mammals in the late Tertiary. Authorities disagree about the time this colonization began. On the basis of fossil evidence, paleontologists Simpson, Patterson, and Pascual date the formation of the land-bridge as late Pliocene and the major interchange as Pleistocene. Neontologist Hershkovitz, on the other hand, arguing from the degree of differentiation achieved by many of the northern groups in Neotropica, suggests widespread colonization before the land-bridge and a somewhat earlier date for its completion.
2820209|Radar observations often show nocturnal migrants well oriented under opaque layers of cloud, and perhaps even inside or between cloud layers. Some homing pigeons can orient towards home from unfamiliar territory under overcast skies. In searching for non-visual sensory capabilities of birds it is important to consider not only their sensory physiology but also the atmospheric ecology of migration when neither sky nor ground is visible. Either inertial naviation or orientation to the earth's magnetic field requires considerably greater sensitivity than any yet demostrated in birds. Natural or artificial sounds from the surface, or even ground echoes of flight calls, might facilitate orientation under some conditions. Birds communicating by flight calls might detect the differential wind drift experienced by upper and lower members of a flock, and thus determine the direction of wind shear. Under many meteorological conditions such patterns of air movement as roll vortices or internal gravity waves produce readily detectable updrafts capable of providing both lift and information about the direction of the wind or wind shear.
2820210|A critical discussion of developmental processes in the cellular slime molds is presented. The concept of timing sequence, consisting of a set of gene-product units (GPUs) linked by interactions, is proposed to describe significant changes during development of any organism. It is shown how the contrasting outlooks and experimental approaches of the two major laboratories involved in biochemical work on slime molds may be brought together under this framework. Three timing sequences which may be applicable to the particular case of cellular slime molds are presented and discussed in detail. Attention is called to experiments which will most rapidly reveal the actual timing sequence.
3037130|Hormones play key roles in the regulation of animal and plant life histories, particularly in the timing of transitions between prematurational stages and in the scheduling of reproduction. Furthermore, hormonal mechanisms are subject to information about the external and internal environment of the individual. Within an evolutionary radiation, the same hormone subsets often regulate the schedules of development as well as adult reproduction and related activities and, moreover, are involved in mechanisms of senescence. We propose that the pleiotropic and epistatic effects from hormonal and neural mechanisms are an important substratum for life history evolution. This analysis of hormonal mechanisms in senescence implicates a role for antagonistic pleiotropy in selection for particular subsets of hormonal mechanisms that can be traced throughout prematurational and postmaturational stages. In the example of the vertebrate MHC (major histocompatibility complex), polymorphic loci have been assembled with pleiotropic actions on several regulatory axes affecting reproduction and other fitness components. We argue that the MHC and other complex loci may be considered as life history gene complexes, with pleiotropic influences throughout the lifespan. While analyses of this kind might suggest that life histories could be evolutionarily rigid, in our interpretation the population genetics that is involved provides a theoretical basis for great flexibility in hormonal regulation during life history evolution. It is possible that life history evolution among taxonomic groups may sometimes be chaotic, which would frustrate strong inferences by the comparative method in the study of life histories between taxonomic groups.
3035823|I propose that the very earliest cell could not have contained intracellular parasites in the sense of independent, self-benefiting agents that were detrimental to their host. Before there were effective ways to extract energy by methanogenesis and photosynthesis, the world ecosystem, I have argued, was very sparse and essentially monophyletic (Koch, 1994). During much or all of this time, nontransmissible agents, comparable to plasmids, would have been selected against as long as they could not synchronize their growth with that of their single-celled host. Even when such an adaptation was initiated, it must have been one that was likely crude and imperfect, and frequently failed. The transmission of genetic material via subcellular vectors would have depended on the later development of special mechanism for the introduction of nucleic acids into living cells. only after living forms became abundant could and efficient and effective transmissible intracellular pathogen prosper, because by then a trnsmissible agent could be destructive to its host and more successfully to a new host. The implication is that much of the earliest evolution of either the host's cellular functions or the parasite's techniques and strategies proceeded without gene transfer. Support for these ideas is presented, starting from hypotheses concerning the nature of the first life forms and leading to a scenario for the development of transmissible intracellular pathogens.
3035822|A fundamentally new psychology related to the ability to conceive of limited aspects of the self may have envolved in the ancestor of the great ape/human clade. Existing models of the evolution of primate intelligence do not provide an adequate explanation of the apparent restriction of this phenomenon. We propose that the capacity for self-conception envolved as a psychological mechanims enabling large-bodied, highly arboreal apes to cope with problems posed by the need to negotiate their way through a habitat that was fragile due to their body size. First, we briefly outline the case for believing that a new psychology related to self-conception envolved during the Miocene in the ancestor of the great ape/human clade. Next, we examine the existing models of the evolution of primate intelligence and assess their ability to account for the evolution of self-conception. Finally, we offer details of our alternative model, along with a series of predictions that can be derived from it.
3035824|A common assumption historically in ecology is evident in the term "balance of nature." The phrase usually implies that undisturbed nature is ordered and harmonius, and that ecological systems return to a previous equilibrium after disturbances. The more recent concepts of point equilibrium and static stability, which characterize the classical equilibrium paradigm in ecology, are traceable to the assumptions implicit in "balance of nature." The classical equilibrium view, however, has failed not only because equilibrium conditions are rare in nature, but also because of our past inability to incorporate heterogeneity and scale multiplicity into our quantitative expresssions for stability. The theories and models built around these equlibrium and stability principles have misrepresented the foundations of resource management, nature conservation, and environemtnal protection. In this paper, we sysntesize recent developments that advance our understandings of equilibrium vs. nonequilibrium, homogeneity vs. heterogeneity, determinism vs. stochasticity, and single-sclae phenomenon vs. hierarchical linkages in ecological systems. The integration of patch dynamics with hierarchy theory has led to new perspectives in spatial and temporal dynamics, with explicit linkage between scale and heterogeneity. The major elements of the hierarchical patch dynamics paradigm include the idea of nested hirarchies of patch mosaics, ecosystem dynamics as a composite of patch changes in time and space, the pattern-process-scale perspecitve, the nonequilibrium perspective, and the concepts of incorporation and metastability. Both enviromental stochasticities and biotic feedback interactions can cause instability and contribute to the dynamcis observed a various scales. Stabilizing mechanisms that dampen these destabilizing forces include spatial incorporation, environmental disturbances, biological compensatory mechanisms, and heterogeneity absorpion. Hierarchical patch dynamics incorporates certain "emergent properties" of ecological system, such as metastabilityor persistence at the meta-scale, as opposed to the transient dynamics that usually characterize local phenomena. In contrast to the stability that derives from an assumed self-regulation in a closed system, the concepts of incorporation and metastability deal explicity with multiple-scale processes and the consequences of heterogeneity. The most imporatant contribution of hierarchical patch dynamics lies in the framework provided for explicitly incorporating heterogeneity and scale, and for integrating equilibrium, multiple equilibrium, and nonequilibrium perspectives.
3036240|Almost all human population exhibit seasonal variation in births, owing mostly to seasonal variation in the frequency of conception. This review focuses on the degree to which environmental factors like nutrition, temperature and photoperiod contribute to these seasonal patterns by acting directly on the reproductive axis. The reproductive strategy of humans is basically that of the apes: Humans have the capacity to reproduce continuously, albeit slowly, unless inhibited by environmental influences. Two, and perhaps three, environmental factors probably act routinely as seasonal inhibitors in some human populations. First, it seems likely that ovulation is regulated seasonally in populations experiencing seasonal variation in food availability. More specifically, it seems likely that inadequate food inatake or the increased energy expenditure required to obtain food, or both, can delay menarche, suppress the frequency of ovulation in the nonlactating adult, and prolong lactational amenorrhea in these populations on a seasonal basis. This action is most easily seen in tropical subsistence societies where food availability often varies greatly owing to seasonal variation in rainfall; hence births in these populations often correlate with rainfall. Second, it seems likely that seasonally high temperatures suppress spermatogenesis ecough to influence the incidence of fertilization in hotter latitudes, but possibly only in males wearing clothing that diminishes scrotal cooling. Since most of our knowledge about this phenomenon comes from temperate latitudes, the sensitivity of spermatogenesis in both human and nonhuman primates to heat in the tropics needs further study. It is quite possible that high temperatures suppress ovulation and early embryo survival seasonally in some of these same populations. Since we know less than desired about the effect of heat stress on ovulation and early pregnancy in nonhuman mammals, and nothing at all about it in humans or any of the other primates, this is an important area for future research. Thrid, correlational data suggest that there may be some degree of regulation of reproduction by photoperiod in humans at middle to higher latitudes. Populations at these latitudes often show a peak in presumed conceptions associated with the vernal equinox. On the other hand, evidence gathered by neuroendocrinologists tends to argue against reproductive photoresponsiveness in humans.
3036241|Persistence of individual differences in animal behavior in reactions to various environmental challenges could reflect basic divergences in temperament, which might be used to predict details of adaptive response. Although studies have been carried out on fear and anxiety in various species, including laboratory, domestic and wild animals, no consistent definition of fearfulness as a basic trait of temperament has emerged. After a classification of the events that may produce a state of fear, this article describes the great variability in behavior and in physiological patterns generally associated with emotional reactivity. The difficulties of proposing fearfulness-the general capacity to react to a variety of potentially threatening situations-as a valid basic internal variable are then discussed. Although there are many studies showing covariation among the psychobiological responses to different environmental challenges, other studies find no such correlations and raise doubts about the interpretation of fearfulness as a basic personality trait. After a critical assessment of methodologies used in fear and anxiety studies, it is suggested that discrepancies among results are mainly due to the modulation of emotional responses in animals, which depend on numerous genetic and epigenetic factors. It is difficult to compare results obtained by different methods from animals reared under various conditions and with different genetic origins. The concept of fearfulness as an inner trait is best supported by two kinds of investigations. First, an experimental approach combining ethology and experimental psychology produces undeniable indicators of emotional reactivity. Second, genetic lines selected for psychobiological traits prove useful in establishing between behavioral and neuroendocrine aspects of emotional reactivity. It is suggested that fearfulness could be considered a basic feature of the temperament of each individual, one that predisposes it to respond similarly to a variety of potentially alarming challenges, but is nevertheless continually modulated during development by the interaction of genetic traits of reactivity with environmental factors, particularly in the juvenile period. Such interaction may explain much of the interindividual variability observed in adaptive responses.
3035722|A large fraction, sometimes the largest fraction, of a eukaryotic genome consists of repeated DNA sequences. Copy numbers range from several thousand to millions per diploid genome. All classes of repetitive DNA sequences examined to date exhibit apparently general, but little studied, patterns of "concerted evolution." Historically, concerted evolution has been defined as the nonindependent evolution of repetitive of repetitive DNA sequences, resulting in a sequence similarity of repeating units that is greater within than among species. This intraspecific homogenization of repetitive sequence arrays is said to take place via the poorly understood mechanisms of "molecular drive." The evolutionary populations dynamics of molecular drive remains largely unstudied in natural populations, and thus the potential significance of these evolutionary dynamics for population differentiation is unknown. This review attemps to demonstrate the potential importance of the mechanisms responsible for concerted evolution in the differentiation of populations. It contends that any natural grouping that is characterized by reproductive isolation and limited gene flow is capable of exhibiting concerted evolution of repetitive DNA arrays. Such effects are known to occur in protein and RNA-coding repetitive sequences, as well as in so-called "junk DNA," and thus have important implications for the differentiation and discrimination of natural populations.
3035721|Processes governing metamerization and the subsequent differentiation of metameres are well known in Drosophila. It is little known, However, to what extent the metameric patterns in Drosophila can be extended to other arthropods and related metameric animals, how the known diversity of metameric patterns and processes should be evolutionarily interpreted, and what the relationship is between their morphological and developmental features. We review the aspects of Drosophila development that involve compartmentalization, parasegmentation, (meta)segmentation, patterns of muscke development, clonal compositions of metameric domains, and the correpsondence between clonally and/or genetically defined boundaries and adult structures. These regularities are compared with what little is known of these phenomena in other insects, crustaceans, millipedes, centipees, onychophorans, and polychaete and clitellate annelids. Both parasegmental and metasegmental metamerism are probably characteristic of all the arthropods and annelids. Developmentally, the annelid segments (as well as segments of the hypothetical soft-bodied prearthropod ancestor) cannot be identified with parasegments (sensu Minelli and Bortoletto). The alleged primary segments (sensu Snodgrass) do not correspond to any identified developmental body metameres in arthropods; moreover, they aree not recapitulated during ontogeny, and "primary" as parasegmentation and metasegmentation, while developmentally the latest of them. The anteriormost areas of the definite segments (metasegments) do not show any traces of being secondarily incorporated in these metasegments as required by the established hypothesis of concurrent phylogenetic and ontogenetic switch from primary to secondary body segmentation.
2823106|The biological, social, and legal aspects of work on the fertilization of human ova in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos into the uterus of the mother are considered by a scientist engaged in these studies. The initial parts of the review provide descriptions of studies on the control of ovulation, and the methods developed for the culture of cleaving animal and human embryos. The main part of the review is devoted to the moral and ethical aspects of such studies. An outline description is given, first, of the development of clinical methods in various fields, together with a consideration of the methods of fetal screening necessary in work on the reimplantation of human embryos. The position of the infertile patients, in relation to the development of studies on fertilization in vitro, is then discussed, including the assessment of some opinions expressed on the therapeutic nature of treatments based on the reimplantation of embryos. A brief description of genetic engineering, including its imminence, practicability, and dangers, is then given. Some theological, philosophical, and legal aspects of fertilization in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos are debated in the final sections of the review. These sections include a commentary on current discussions about the philosophical and theological aspects of the work. Descriptions are given of some examples in law relevant to clinical attempts to alleviate infertility. together with a consideration of the legal relationship between patients, offspring, and those doctors and scientists engaged in these clinical studies.
2825234|This review organizes ideas on the evolution of life histories. The key life-history traits are brood size, size of young, the age distribution of reproductive effort, the interaction of reproductive effort with adutl mortality, and the variation in these traits among an individual's progeny. The general theoretical problem is to predict which combinations of traits will evolve in organisms living in specified circumstances. First consider single traits. Theorists have made the following predictions: (1) Where adult exceeds juvenile mortality, the organism should reproduce only once in its lifetime. Where juvenile exceeds adult mortality, the organism should reproduce several times. (2) Brood size should maximize the number of young surviving to maturity, summed over the lifetime of the parent. But when optimum brood-size varies unpredictably in time, smaller broods should be favored because they decrease the chances of total failure on a given attempt. (3) In expanding populations, selection should minimize age at maturity. In stable populations, when reproductive success depends on size, age, or social status, or when adult exceeds juvenile mortality, then maturation should be delayed, as it should be in declining populations. (4) Young should increase in size at birth with increased predation risk, and decrease in size with increased resource availability. Theorists have also predicted that only particular combinations of traits should occur in specified circumstances. (5) In growing populations, age at maturity should be minimized, reproductive effort concentrated early in life, and brood size increased. (6) One view holds that in stable environments, late maturity, multiple broods, a few, large young, parental care, and small reproductive efforts should be favored (K-selection). In fluctuating environments, early maturity, many small young, reduced parental care, and large reproductive efforts should be favored (r-selection). (7) But another view holds that when juvenile mortality fluctuates more than adult mortality, the traits associated with stable and fluctuating environments should be reversed. We need experiments that test the assumptions and predictions reviewed here, more comprehensive theory that makes more readily falsifiable predictions, and examination of different definitions of fitness.
2825235|Much evidence suggests that intrinsic molecular or cellular aging mechanisms need not be invoked to explain most age-related cellular changes and pathological conditions. Analysis of a widely scattered literature indicates that hormones and neural factors regulate a great number of cellular aging phenomena of mammals. It is proposed that age-related changes after maturation result from an extension of the neural and endocrine mechanisms that control earlier development and that produce a regulatory cascade of changing neural, endocrine, and target-tissue interactions.
2823123|In order to understand better the evolution and adaptive value of hibernation, ecological aspects and experimental studies of closely related hibernators, the Marmotini, are examined. The central hypthesis is that annual changes in the environment integrate three or, perhaps, four physiological processes: torpor, reproduction, consumption of food, and metabolism. Reproduction occurs promptly after emergence from hibernation. For most species, the breeding season is very short. Although the experimental data are rather meager, no variation in external factors has consistently altered the season of reproduction. Consumption of food and change in weight increases until July or September and then decreases. The large members of the Marmotini store their energy as fat, but small species store their energy as seeds and nuts. Experiments to test the hypothesis that some aspect of the supply, such as fat content, might vary seasonally have produced negative results. Complex experiments on the length of the photoperiod on woodchucks and several species of ground squirrels failed to alter the annual cycle of consumption of food. Animals kept in constant conditions showed a cycle of about 11 months, but woodchucks sent to Australia changed their cycle in two years to match the seasons of the southern hemisphere. Experiments with temperature and torpor and castration did not alter the annual rhythm. Metabolism has an annual cycle of increase and decrease, even in animals that are not permitted to become torpid. Factors that might influence torpor have been extensively tested in laboratory experiments. Individuals kept at low temperature without food will enter torpor in any month of the year. In summer it is necessary to deprive an animal of food for 3 to 4 weeks to initiate torpor, but in winter, 3 to 4 hours may suffice. Various lengths of photoperiod or changes of photoperiod throughout the year have failed to cause animals to enter torpor or to arouse. A reduction of the consumption of food or absence of food was necessary for torpor. Deprivation of water seems to induce torpor. An annual cycle of consumption of food (and water) dominates the control of the occurrence of hibernation. In nature when the decline in consumption coincides with low temperatures, the animals begin hibernation. The consumption of food follows and annual rhythm which apparently becomes synchronized with the environment at about the age of two years. Endogenicity of the rhythm is demonstrated by several sets of evidence: (1) the rhythm runs freely at about 11 months duration; (2) the period is independent of the temperature; (3) entrainment has been demonstrated. As yet, no data demonstrating a phase response curve has become available. The adaptive value of the annual rhythm is apparent. Torpor is a splendid mechanism for conserving energy in the season of scarcity by lowering the metabolic functions. The existence of a biological alarm clock is necessary to arouse the individual. After arousal the individuals consume little food, but at the season of abundance, they consume large quantities. Interpretation of the results described in this review recognizes that some physiological processes are controlled by annual clocks and others by circadian clocks. For example, the analysis of the relation of photoperiod to the increase in size of gonads of many birds and mammals suggests that a circadian rhythm controls the cycle. But a woodchuck requires two years when individuals are transplanted to a different hemisphere to change their cycle of consumption. Thus, it is possible that the circannual rhythm controls some physiological functions, while a circadian clock controls other functions.
2823629|In recent years, the evidence suggesting that honey bees communicate with a "dance language" has been strongly attacked on both theoretical and experimental grounds. An alternative theory has been proposed by which bees are supposed to use only odors to locate sources of food. A review of the evolution of the controversy isolates and analyzes the main issues. Early experiments which sought to add controls for forager odors are shown to be inherently ambiguous. The fundamental problem in this important dispute has been that dancing bees advertise a food location with site-specific odor information as well as symbolic distance and direction coordinates. A new technique has overcome this problem and demonstrated that von Frisch's dance language theory is, on the whole, correct. The apparently contradictory results of Wenner and his colleagues are shown to be due to their techniques for training bees. The dance-language controversy raises issues beyond how bees communicate. These include whether and when "evolutionary" arguments are useful, and to what extent Kuhn's scientific revolution paradigm fits the dispute.
2823630|Females are larger than males in more species of mammals than is generally supposed. A provisional list of the mammalian cases is provided. The phenomenon is not correlated with an unusually large degree of male parental investment, polyandry, greater aggressiveness in females than in males, greater development of weapons in females, female dominance, or matriarchy. The phenomenon may have evolved in a variety of ways, but it is rarely, if ever, the result of sexual selection acting upon the females sex. The most common selective pressures favoring large size in female mammals are probably those associated with the fact that a big mother is often a better mother and those resulting from more intense competition among females for some resource than among males. It appears that, in general, more than one such pressure must affect the females of a species, and that their combined effects must not be countered by even stronger selective pressures favoring large size in males, before the result is that of larger size in the female sex. Sexual selection may often be operating upon the male sex in mammals even when it is the smaller. Present knowledge about the species of mammals in which females are larger than males is quite rudimentary. Much more information is needed before we will be able to speak of the selective pressures accounting for the phenomenon with any reasonable degree of certainty. Perhaps the most fruitful approach would be a series of field studies of groups of related species in which females are larger in some species and males are larger in others.
2824863|Lizards thermoregulate by behavioral and physiological adjustments. The resultant control over metabolic processes is generally assumed to be beneficial. However, these thermoregulatory adjustments have associated costs which, if extensive, make thermoregulation impractical. We extend this idea into an abstract mathematical, cost-benefit model of thermoregulation in lizards. Investigation of the model leads to a set of predictions which includes: (1) the physiologically optimal temperature is not always the ecologically optimal temperature; (2) thermoregulation is beneficial only when associated costs are low; (3) thermal specialists will normally thermoregulated more carefully than thermal generalists unless costs are high; and (4) lizards will thermoregulate more carefully if productivity of the habitat is increased or if exploitation competition is reduced. Data on lizards, where available, generally agree with these predictions.
2824864|The relationship between biological and cultural evolution is of major importance to the study of human ecology and social behavior. This paper argues that to an important and generally unrecognized extent, culture may evolve by the selective retention of non-genetic of traits that enhance the ability of individual human beings to survive and reproduce in a given environment. This implies that biological and cultural evolution may be truly complemetary. If so, it makes no sense either to view biological and cultural adaptations as independent phenomena or to assert that all forms of adaptation result from natural selection. The possible coevolution of human biology and culture therefore has important implications for understanding why people do what they do. In an attempt to asses the validity of a coevolutionary approach to human behavior, one of the favorite topics of the biology versus culture, instinct versus learning controversy is reconsidered: intergroup aggression. First, a model is proposed to account for the presence or absence of intergroup aggression resulting from resource competition between human social groups. From combined measures of resource deprivation and relative capability, the model predicts conditions where aggressive intergroup behavior would have a net benefit for the survival and reproduction of the individual aggresors despite its inherent costs. These predictions are then compared with several examples in a review of war and peace among small, stateless human societies. The evidence is consisten which the hypothesis that individuals maximize their survival and reproduction by living in social groups and participating in collective aggression when access to scare resources at stake. It is concluded that aggressive intergroup behavior may often be adaptive for individuals under conditions of resource competition and that this may help to explain the prevalence of warfare among human societies.
2827599|Is there, as claimed, scientific support for "scientific creationism"? If so, arguments that scientific creationism is a legitimate scientific discipline deserving "equal time" with evolution in public-school science classes would be strengthened. An early study (Cole and Scott, 1982) revealed that 28 prominent creationists did not publish articles dealing with empirical, experimental or theoretical evidence for the scientific creationist "model" in over 4000 journals covered by the data-retrieval system SCISEARCH. To see if other scientific creationists were publishing proofs of creation, we surveyed editors of 68 journals to which scientific creationists would be likely to submit articles on this subject. Out of over 135,000 submissions from 1980 to 1983, only 18 dealt with empirical, experimental, or theoretical support for scientific creationism, and 12 of these went to one science education journal alone. No creationist articles have been published, although three were still under review at the time of this study. Papers were rejected due to poor scholarship, with editors commenting that the articles appeared to have been written by laymen rather than professional scientists. A number of differences are apparent in comparing the scholarship found in "in house" creation science sources and "mainline" scientific journals. Although scientific creationists complain that "completely scientific papers" would be rejected out of hand by "mainline" journals, it is obvious that none have been submitted. Outside of creationism outlets, then, there is no "scientific" creationism. We have documented this as a service to the teachers, professors, and lawyers who are striving to maintain high standards of science education in the face of pressures to introduce non-scientific concepts into the public school classroom.
2827598|Infanticide in a variety of species, has been reported anecdotally in the scientific literature for many years. Hypotheses concerning its underlying causes have ranged from infanticide as a means of population control, and hence adaptive to groups of organisms, to infanticide as a maladaptive social pathology in populations subjected to severe overcrowding. Recently, infanticide has been viewed as an adaptive behavioral "strategy" that may enhance the reproductive success of individual animals, particularly males. This "sexual selection" hypothesis suggests that males benefit from killing unrelated young because they eliminate parental investment in offspring they have not sired. The loss of a nursing infant also removes the endocrine inhibition o estrus in potential mates and permits the siring of additional offspring sooner than would be possible if the female continued to lactate. Many researchers have studied the role of infanticide in nature, especially in primates. While many studies suggest that infanticide enhances the fitness of male primates, there are no data that demonstrates differences in lifetime reproductive success between infanticidal and non-infanticidal males. Many published accounts have attributed infant mortality to "presumed infanticide." Female counterresponses to infanticide by males have been suggested, but have not been examined systematically. Whether any female primates normally kill unrelated young is unknown. Infanticide research in laboratories or zoos is excluded for most species (especially primates) because those environments can only approximate natural conditions, and because most scientists consider such research unethical. These problems have been overcome to some extent by examining infanticide in rodents in both the laboratory and field. Because both male and female rodents may be infanticidal, a more comprehensive approach to sudying and understanding this behavior is possible. Statistically reliable sample sizes, carefully controlled environments and manipulations, and comparisons of behavior among species and among genetically homogeneous strains of rodents have also contributed to a dynamic new effort to understand the causes and functions of infanticidal behavior. This article discusses the many studies of rodent infanticide that have emerged in this decade. We summarize this work and analyze the way in which different methodologies and perspectives may have contributed to the conflicting results and conclusions apparent in the literature on rodent infanticide. Data from laboratory studies are compared and placed in context with what is known about the social structures and population dynamics of rodents in nature. In this article we maintain that infanticide is an overt behavioral manifestation with many motivational bases; the same behavior may increase individual fitness of both males and females, but for different reasons. We demonstrate that generalizations about the function or evolution of infanticide in rodents based upon data from one species or strain of rodent are at present unwarranted. Finally, questions and interdisciplinary avenues for future research are suggested.
2827600|Current unease over the adequacy of neo-Darwinism as an explanation of many evolutionary events has led to a refurbishing of ideas expressed during the 1940s (and later) by Richard Goldschmidt; these include the concepts of "macromutations" and "hopeful monsters." Because Goldschmidt's ideas in their original form were defined, tested, and found wanting, a revival of their descriptive labels generates confusion and should be discouraged. Many persons who are opposed to neo-Darwinism believe that much of molecular genetics lies outside the conceptual framework of population genetics; this belief is wrong. As a branch of genetics, population genetics embraces (indeed, must embrace) molecular findings, many of which have already been incorporated into the fabric of population and evolutionary genetics.
2829806|The firefly flash is a signal in a courtship system based upon timing patterns controlled by the brain. Courtship flash codes supply both species and sex identification and rely on precise timing and stereotypy of one or a few temporal parameters to preserve information. The flash control system is physiologically complex. It involves random physiological fluctuations that tend to introduce variability into communication and thus to degrade information transfer. To understand the physiological basis of flash communication it is therefore essential to establish the limits of fluctuation within which the entire system must operate. The physiological processes that are so variable involve sensory reception, central integration, and the output of an unusual neuroeffector (the firefly lantern). For example, the pattern generators of fireflies must be primed to operate with sufficient precision. Insufficiently primed animals produce flashes of abnormal kinetics and timing. Flashing behavior of fireflies is greatly affected by the animal's state of arousal; quiescent fireflies are induced to flash with difficulty, whereas excited animals produce rapid and varied luminescent emissions. Also, the firefly's visual apparatus is highly specialized for the reception of fast transient flashes, and its ability to process other types of photic information remains unknown. Finally, and perhaps most significantly, the flash pattern generators of fireflies can be entrained by incoming flashes to produce, in females, responses of appropiate delay; and in males, flash synchrony. Lloyd (1981b) has proposed that aggressive mimicry by Photuris femmes fatales has had a great evolutionary impact on the flash codes of prey firefly species. This mimicry may represent a simple entrainment of Photurius females to a wide array of flash patterns. The precision of flash behavior should be measured in females of known physiological state and previous flash history in order to asses the effect of mimicry on firefly courtship behavior.
2829808|Auditory signals mediate two important classes of behavior for crickets. In one of these-mating behavior-male crickets produce species-specific calling songs that serve to attract conspecific females for mating. The production of calling songs by males and their recognition by females requires the "coupling" or coordination of two different behavioral acts around a specific acoustic signal. Two hypotheses about how this "behavioral coupling" might be achieved in crickets as well as in other animals are discussed in this review. In addition, the problems of how temporal patterns of the male's calling song might be encoded and recognized by females is discussed in terms of two current hypotheses-the 30 Hz "simplicity" hypothesis and the more complex "trade-off" hypothesis. A second class of behaviors is also medicated by acoustic signals: predator detection. Evidence is presented that crickets, which fly at night, are subject to predation by insectivorous bats that use ultrasonic biosonar signals to detect them. The behavior displayed by crickets in response to ultrasonic stimulation closely resembles that of moths and green lacewings, which are two insects that are known to be preyed upon by bats.
2829807|Insects react to the colors, odors, tastes, and chemical reactivity of organic molecules with stereotyped behaviors and physiological changes. Specific examples are chosen to illustrate the responses of insects to subtle changes in molecular properties such as shape, functionally, branching, polarity, stereochemistry, and chirality. The intricate sociochemical interactions possible in termites are exampined in detail.
2828392|Insular lizards, birds, and mammals in high-density populations often exhibit reduced situation-specific aggression toward conspecifics. This aggressive behavior can be expressed in the form of (1) reduced territory sizes, (2) increased territory overlap with neighbors, (3) acceptance of subordinates on the territory, (4) reduced aggressiveness to certain classes of conspecifics, or (5) abandonment of territorial defense. These behavioral traits can be explained by two nonexclusive hypotheses. The resource hypothesis suggests that territorial behavior is primarily adjusted to resource densities, and that resources are more abundant on islands than on the mainland (e.g., because of a lack of competing species). The defense hypothesis suggests that, in addition to any effects of resources, the costs of defense againsts both territorial intruders and contenders for vacant territories are higher on islands. Recent theoretical and empirical studies indicate that these behavioral changes can occur as a result of elevated defense costs, independent of resource densities. Reduced predation, more benign climates, and an absence of habitat sinks on islands would all tend to increase the density of potential intruders and contenders, and hence the costs of defense for owners of insular territories. The two hypotheses differ in their predictions about the rates of biomass production (growth or reproduction) for holders of insular territories. Reproductive and growth data from insular mainland pairs indicate the importance of elevated defense costs, and also suggest that many insular vertebrates reallocate their breeding resources so as to produce young that are more competitive. The suite of ecological and behavioral traits exhibited by insular territorial vertebrates can best be explained by three factors operating in concert: higher available resource densities, higher defense costs, and (sometimes) a reallocation of resources to produce young that are more competitive.
2828391|The glycosyltransferases may be the evolutionary precursors of the immunoglobulins, although critical evidence for this hypothesis is not yet available. The transferases add sugars to non-glycosylated proteins, lipids, and organic molecules, as well as to oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, and glycolipids. The enzymes are specific, extremely polymorphic, occasionally inducible, and may be structurally related to one another. Circumstantial evidence links the transferases to both the MHC and T/t loci in the mouse. Finally, antibodies against purified transferases are difficult to produce and sometimes they react with immunoglobulins. The present hypothesis predicts that transferases should show some sequence homology with immunoglobulins, and that some MHC proteins will be glycosyltransferases.
2828504|Developmental constraints (defined as biases on the production of variant phenotypes or limitations on phenotypic variability caused by the structure, character, composition, or dynamics of the developmental system) undoubtedly play a significant role in evolution. Yet there is little agreement on their importance as compared with selection, drift, and other such factors in shaping evolutionary history. This review distinguishes between "universal" and "local" constraints; it deals primarily with the latter, which apply to a limited range of taxa. Such constraints, typically, can be broken even within the taxa to which they apply, though with varying degrees of difficulty. The origin of constraints is discussed, five distinctive of constraint being explicitly considered. Three means of identifying constraints are set forth, as well as four means of distinguishing developmental from selective constraints. None of the latter (use of a priori adaptive predictions, direct measurement of selection, direct measurement of heritable variation, and use of the comparative method) is foolproof. In the final section, three larger issues regarding the role of developmental constraints in evolution are discussed: the extent to which evolutionary stasis can be explained in developmental terms, the extend to which evolutionary trends and patterns might be a consequence of developmental constraints, and the extent to which various genetic and developmental mechanisms have evolved in virtue of the need of lineages to manifest evolutionary plasticity (or adaptability) if they are to survive. Although no definitive conclusions are reached on these larger issues, we bring recent advances in developmental biology, evolutionary theory, and (to a limited extent) molecular biology to bear on them.
2828505|This review is concerned with the mechanical forces that cause epithelial sheets to invaginate during morphogenesis. Interest in this problem is currently increasing and a variety of models, each with a different emphasis, have been formulated to explain mechanical aspects of epithelial folding. A critical evaluation of the experimental evidence bearing on this problem leads to the following conclusions. (1) The most popular model of invagination, one based on microfilament-mediated cell shape change, should be re-examined, given the limitations of the experimental evidence usually offered in its support. Recent experiments with permeabilized epithelia offer a promising approach for confirming the validity of this model. (2) Current hypotheses based on disparities in the adhesive properties of epithelial cells are consistent with available data, but appear to be impossible to test directly at this time. (3) There is evidence that suggests that cell growth and division are involved in invagination during the branching morphogenesis of some epithelio-mesenchymal organs, but it has been shown that these processes are not involved in other cases. (4) Recent studies demonstrate that some epithelial invaginations are accompanied by movements of cells, both in the form of rearrangement (exchange of nearest neighbors) and involution (flow of surrounding cells into the invaginating region). (5) A general conclusion that may be drawn from the data now available is that several different mechanisms of epithelial folding operate during morphogenesis.
2828507|Genetics textbooks have been remarkably unaffected by the discovery of fraud in the work of British psychologist Sir Cyril Burt or by the resulting critical review of other classic studies on the genetics of intelligence. Although Burt's name has nearly vanished from current textbooks, his results continue to be cited in textbook discussions of the heritability of intelligence, as do the results of other studies now recognized as methodologically inadequate. Moreover, genetics textbooks consistently employ confused or misleading definitions of the concept of heritability that, together with the reporting of discredited data, perpetuate a fundamentally inaccurate understanding of the genetics of intelligence. This situation is largely attributable to the practice-generic to textbook writing but in this case taken to an extreme-of authors' liberal borrowing from one another or from a few apparently authoritative works (including earlier textbooks). The extent to which authors rely on these sources for their discussion of the genetics of intelligence is apparently a function both of the controversiality of the subject and of authors' technical insecurity, perhaps reinforced by prior assumptions about the influence of genes on variations in intellectual performance.
2830331|This paper proposes that the mammalian immune response known as "allergy" evolved as a last line of defense against the extensive array of toxic substances that exist in the environment in the form of secondary plant compounds and venoms. Whereas nonimmunological defenses typically can target only classes of toxins, the immune system is uniquely capable of the fine-tuning required to target selectively the specific molecular configurations of individual toxins. Toxic substances are commonly allergenic. The pharmacological chemicals released by the body's mast cells during an IgE antibody-mediated allergic response typically cause vomiting, diarrhea, coughing, tearing, sneezing, or scratching, which help to expel from the body the toxic substance that triggered the response; individuals frequently develop aversions to substances that have triggered such responses. A strong allergic response often includes a decrease in blood pressure, which slows the rate at which toxins circulate to target organs. The immune system identifies as toxic the following kinds of substances: (1) those low-molecular-weight substances that bind covalently to serum proteins (e.g., many plant toxins); (2) nontoxic proteins that act as carriers of toxins with low molecular weights (e.g., plant proteins associated with plant toxins); (3) specific substances of high molecular weight that harmed individuals in ancestral mammalian populations for a span of time that was significant from the standpoint of natural selection (e.g., the toxic proteins of bee venom). Substances that bind covalently to serum proteins generally are acutely toxic, and because many of these substances also bind covalently to the DNA of target cells, they are potentially mutagenic and carcinogenic as well. Thus, by protecting against acute toxicity, allergy may also defend against mutagens and carcinogens. The toxin hypothesis explains the main phenomena of allergy: why IgE-mediated allergies usually occur within minutes of exposure to an allergen and why they are often so severe; why the manifestations of allergy include vomiting, diarrhea, coughing, sneezing, scratching, tearing, and a drop in blood pressure; why covalent binding of low-molecular-weights substances to serum proteins frequently causes allergy; why allergies occur to many foods, pollens, venoms, metals, and drugs; why allergic cross-reactivity occurs to foods and pollen from unrelated botanical families; why allergy appears to be so capricious and variable; and why allergy is more prevalent in industrial societies than it is in foraging societies. This hypothesis also has implications for the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of allergy.
2830330|While evolution by natural selection has long been a foundation for biomedical science, it has recently gained new power to explain many aspects of disease. This progress results largely from the disciplined application of what has been called the adaptationist program. We show that this increasingly significant research paradigm can predict otherwise unsuspected facets of human biology, and that it provides new insights into the causes of medical disorders, such as those discussed below: 1. Infection. Signs and symptoms of the host-parasite contest can be categorized according to whether they represent adaptations or costs for host or parasite. Some host adaptations may have contributed to fitness in the Stone Age but are obsolete today. Others, such as fever and iron sequestration, have been incorrectly considered harmful. Pathogens, with their large populations and many generations in a single host, can evolve very rapidly. Acquisition of resistance to antibiotics is one example. Another is the recently demonstrated tendency to change virulence levels in predictable ways in response to changed conditions imposed incidentally by human activities. 2. Injuries and toxins. Mechanical injuries or stressful wear and tear are conceptually simpler than infectious diseases because they are not contests between conflicting interests. Plant-herbivore contests may often underlie chemical injury from the defensive secondary compounds of plant tissues. Nausea in pregnancy, and allergy, may be adaptations against such toxins. 3. Genetic factors. Common genetic diseases often result from genes maintained by other beneficial effects in historically normal environments. The diseases of aging are especially likely to be associated with early benefits. 4. Abnormal environments. Human biology is designed for Stone Age conditions. Modern environments may cause many diseases-for example, deficiency syndromes such as scurvy and rickets, the effects of excess consumption of normally scarce nutrients such as fat and salt, developmental diseases such as myopia, and psychological reactions to novel environments. The substantial benefits of evolutionary studies of disease will be realized only if they become central to medical curricula, an advance that may at first require the establishment of one or more research centers dedicated to the further development of Darwinian medicine.
2831327|Data on 15 physical characteristics of contenders in 137 championship prizefights in three weight categories (light-, middle-, and heavyweights) have been analysed. These data are seen as being drawn from a highly culled population, and as bearing on what are, in effect, components of fitness. In heavyweights, the analysis suggests that these characteristics are indeed related to winning or losing (i.e., they are selectively important). As an overwhelmingly general rule, however, winners and losers do not differ significantly with respect to these measures nor, for the lighter weight classes, is there evidence of stabilizing selection. The exceptions to this general rule are discussed ("just-so" story): under some circumstances, a correlation between total fitness and one of its components may be detected in a highly selected population. Under most circumstances, on the contrary, this correlation all but vanishes.
2831326|Ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences have been aligned and compared in a number of living organisms, and this approach has provided a wealth of information about phylogenetic relationships. Studies of rDNA sequences have been used to infer phylogenetic history across a very broad spectrum, from studies among the basal lineages of life to relationships among closely related species and populations. The reasons for the systematic versatility of rDNA include the numerous rates of evolution among different regions of rDNA (both among and within genes), the presence of many copies of most rDNA sequences per genome, and the pattern of concerted evolution that occurs among repeated copies. These features facilitate the analysis of rDNA by direct RNA sequencing, DNA sequencing (either by cloning or amplification), and restriction enzyme methodologies. Constraints imposed by secondary structure of rRNA and concerted evolution need to be considered in phylogenetic analyses, but these constraint do not appear to impede seriously the usefulness of rDNA. An analysis of aligned sequences of the four nuclear and two mitochondrial rRNA genes identified regions of these genes that are likely to be useful to address phylogenetic problems over a wide range of levels of divergence. In general, the small subunit nuclear sequences appear to be best for elucidating Precambrian divergences, the large subunit nuclear sequences for Paleozoic and Mesozoic divergences, and the organellar sequences of both subunits for Cenozoic divergences. Primer sequences were designed for use in amplifying the entire nuclear rDNA array in 15 sections by use of the polymerase chaim reaction; these "universal" primers complement previously described primers for the mitochondrial rRNA genes. Pair of primers can be selected in conjunction with the analysis of divergence of the rRNA genes to address systematic problems throughout the hierarchy of life.
2831325|Insects as a group have been especially successful in adapting to subzero temperatures. Typically, an integration of behavioral and developmental adaptations, as well as physiological and biochemical ones, are required to achieve overwintering success. In keeping with the tremendous adaptive radiation of the group, individual species often exhibit considerable variation in the particular set of adaptations by which they achieve the ability to survive subzero temperatures. Two fundamental physiological mechanisms are (1) freeze tolerance, adaptations that confer the abilty to survive extracellular ice formation, and (2) freeze avoidance (freeze resistance), adaptations that prevent freezing. Different populations of the same species, however, may exhibit different mechanisms, and even the same population may vary its overwintering mechanism from year to year. Feeze-avoidance adaptations usually involve production of antifreezes. These may be antifreeze proteins or colligative-type antifreezes, such as glycerol, which are often produced in molar concentrations. Antifreezes function not only to depress the freezing point, but also to extend the ability to supercool, an important factor since most species are protected by the cuticle from inoculation by external ice. Supercooling may also be extended by the removal of ice nucleators from the body fluids, either on an evolutionary-time scale or on a seasonal basis. Freeze-tolerance adaptations are likewise quite diverse. Most freeze-tolerant insects accumulate high levels of cryoprotectants, usually polyols (i.e., glycerol and sorbitol) and sugars (i.e., trehalose). The potential role of less traditional cryoprotectants, such as amino acids and methylamines, has not been properly investigated. Many freze-tolerant species produce extracellular ice nucleators, typically hemolymph proteins, which induce nucleation at fairly high subzero temperatures and thereby inhibit lethal intracellular ice formation. Some freeze-tolerant insects, however, have removed ice nucleators completely and supercool to - 50 to - 60
2830229|Sex-determining mechanisms in reptiles can be divided into two convenient classifications: genotypic (GSD) and environmental (ESD). While a number of types of GSD have been identified in a wide variety of reptilian taxa, the expression of ESD in the form of temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in three of the five major reptilian lineages has drawn considerable attention to this area of research. Increasing interest in sex-determining mechanisms in reptiles has resulted in many data, but much of this information is scattered throughout the literature and consequently difficult to interpret. It is known, however, that distinct sex chromosomes are absent in the tuatara and crocodilians, rare in amphisbaenians (worm lizards) and turtles, and common in lizards and snakes (but less than 20% of all species of living reptiles have been karyotyped). With less than 2 percent of all reptilian species examined, TSD apparently is absent in the tuatara, amphisbaenians and snakes; rare in lizards, frequent in turtles, and ubiquitous in crocodilians. Despite considerable inter-and intranspecific variation in the threshold temperature (temperature producing a 1:1 sex ratio) of gonadal sex determination, this variation cannot confidently be assigned a genetic basis owing to uncontrolled environmental factors or to differences in experimental protocol among studies. Laboratory studies have identified the critical period of development during which gonadal sex determination occurs for at least a dozen species. There are striking similarities in this period among the major taxa with TSD. Examination of TSD in the field indicates that sex ratios of hatchlings are affectd by location of the nests, because some nests produce both sexes whereas the majority produce only one sex. Still, more information is needed on how TSD operates under natural conditions in order to fully understand its ecological and conservation implications. TSD may be the ancestral sex-determining condition in reptiles, but this result remains tentative. Physiological investigations of TSD have clarified the roles of steroid hormones, various enzymes, and H-Y antigen in sexual differentiation, whereas molecular studies have identified several plausible candidates for sex-determining genes in species with TSD. This areas of research promises to elucidate the mechanism of TSD in reptiles and will have obvious implications for understanding the basis of sex determination in other vertebrates. Experimental and comparative investigations of the potential adaptive significance of TSD appear equally promising, although much work remains to be performed. The distribution of TSD within and among the major reptilian lineages may be related to the life span of individuals of a species and to the biogeography of these species. Answers to many of the questions and tests concerning TSD in reptiles would be facilitated by controlling the conditions of incubation, by standardizing the experimental design, and by depositing voucher specimens in accessible collections after completion of the study. Goals for future research are discussed.... pure observation of the normal developmental processes proves absolutely unsuited to elucidate the question how the alternative between the two possible sexes is decided, i.e., how the sex is determined. Only experiments can possibly reveal what part is played by hereditary factors and which are the physiological realizators to stimulate the morphological differentiation (Witschi, 1929). In the absence of experimental data, it would be mere speculation to attempt a statements as to nature of the sex-determining factors and the sex-differentiating mechanisms at work in the turtle embryo (Risley, 1933).
2830228|Analysis of ecological constraints on juvenile mammals suggests that energy expended in play behavior does not reduce fitness, but actually increases it. When viewed as a promoter of adaptive energy loss, play can be considered an antipredator strategy. In addition, it may balance a low-protein diet in favor of growth, as well as increase resistance to pathogens and to cold exposure. These short-term benefits result from activation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), which is hypothesized to occur during play. SNS activation increases heat production in brown adipose tissue. The energy-regulation approach generates many predictions that are supported in the literature, and others that can be empirically tested.
2831918|The Hamilton-Zuk hypothesis postulates a causal link between parasitism and the evolution of epigamic traits by intersexual selection. Oversimplified assumptions about basic parasite biology, ambiguous formulation of the hypothesis, and poor communication between ethologists and parasitologists have hampering is testing. The hypothesis is supported at the microevolutionary level if females show significant preference for lightly or uninfected males. if intensity of infection reflects host resistance to parasites that depress host fitness by causing disease, and if intensity of infection is related to the degree of epigamic development. It must be shown that particular parasites cause disease, that the host population is polymorphic for resistance to infection by those species, and that female hosts are capable of distinguishing male hosts with low parasite loads due to heritable aspects of host resistance from males that are uninfected due to chance. The macroevolutionary prediction of the hypothesis, that species displaying strongly developed epigamic characters should host "more parasites" than species with weakly developed epigamic traits, contradicts the microevolutionary dynamic of the hypothesis, and is too ambiguous. We propose a macroevolutionary prediction based on understanding the evolutionary origin of epigamic traits and the evolutionary origin of each host-parasite association. Associations originating in the ancestor in which the epigamic trait appeared corroborate the hypothesis most strongly; those originating prior to the evolution of the epigamic trait corroborate it weakly; those beginning after the origin of the epigamic trait could not have been involved in the origin and spread of the epigamic trait.
2831919|Cognitive psychology is the study of how information, from the senses and from memory, is used in the production of behavior. Investigation of the specifics of behavioral adaptation has already led some behavioral ecologists into the domain of animal cognition. I make several arguments for the benefits and the necessity of a sophisticated assessment by ecologists of the cognitive aspects of behavioral adaptation. First, because cognition typically serves to produce adaptive behavior, cognitive structure and function should reflect ecological demands; studies of cognition in ecological contexts are opportunities to understand adaptation. Furthermore, constraints on cognitive properties may help determine how behavior meets the environment. Studies of spatial memory in food-caching corvids exemplify how cognitive aspects of behavior may both reflect and determine specifics of adaptation. Second, many models in behavioral ecology assume certain cognitive abilities, such as timing or counting. Cognitive theory and methodology should be used to determine whether animals possess these abilities. I have provided examples. Third, consideration of cognitive function can lead to original ideas about the details of behavioral adaptation. Without a thorough integration of cognitive psychology with behavioral ecology, our understanding of the relation between behavior and selective pressures will be compromised.
QRB1270|In recent decades, malaria has become established in zones at the margin of its previous distribution, especially in the highlands of East Africa. Studies in this region have sparked a heated debate over the importance of climate change in the territorial expansion of malaria, where positions range from its neglect to the reification of correlations as causes. Here, we review studies supporting and rebutting the role of climatic change as a driving force for highland invasion by malaria. We assessed the conclusions from both sides of the argument and found that evidence for the role of climate in these dynamics is robust. However, we also argue that over-emphasizing the importance of climate is misleading for setting a research agenda, even one which attempts to understand climate change impacts on emerging malaria patterns. We review alternative drivers for the emergence of this disease and highlight the problems still calling for research if the multidimensional nature of malaria is to be adequately tackled. We also contextualize highland malaria as an ongoing evolutionary process. Finally, we present Schmalhausen's law, which explains the lack of resilience in stressed systems, as a biological principle that unifies the importance of climatic and other environmental factors in driving malaria patterns across different spatio-temporal scales.
QRB1540|Our understanding of insect societies is rapidly expanding due to an emphasis on integrative approaches. Emerging tools enabling the molecular dissection of social behavior, together with novel hypotheses for the evolution of eusociality, are emblematic of this progress. However, an obstacle to a truly integrative approach remains, as social physiologythe basis of group-level coordinationhas generally been neglected by geneticists. In this paper, we begin a synthesis of these fields by first reviewing three classes of social insect organization that mark major transitions in increasing social complexity. We then develop an expansion of the superorganism concept in order to place eusociality into a broad evolutionary context, and we also interpret current molecular and genetic work on the evolution of eusociality. The groundplan hypothesis proposes that eusociality arose via simple changes in the regulation of ancestral gene sets affecting reproductive physiology and behavior, and we argue that this hypothesis is explanatory for the evolution of division of labor (social anatomy) but not for the regulatory systems that ensure group-level coordination of action (social physiology), which we propose is dependent on previously unrelated traits that are brought together into novel genetic networks. We conclude with a review of recent work in sociogenomics that supports our hypotheses.
QRB1266|The positive relationship between a species' geographic distribution and its abundance is one of ecology's most well-documented patterns, yet the causes behind this relationship remain unclear. Although many hypotheses have been proposed to account for distribution-abundance relationships, none have attained unequivocal support. Accordingly, the positive association in distribution-abundance relationships is generally considered to be due to a combination of these proposed mechanisms acting in concert. In this review, we suggest that much of the disparity between these hypotheses stems from differences in terminology and ecological point of view. Realizing and accounting for these differences facilitates integration, so that the relative contributions of each mechanism may be evaluated. Here, we review all the mechanisms that have been proposed to account for distribution-abundance relationships, in a framework that facilitates a comparison between them. We identify and discuss the central factors governing the individual mechanisms, and elucidate their effect on empirical patterns.
QRB2153|Most biologists implicitly define an individual organism as one genome in one body. This definition is based on physiological and genetic criteria, but it is problematic for colonial organisms. We propose a definition based instead on the evolutionary criteria of alignment of fitness, export of fitness by germsoma specialization, and adaptive functional organization. We consider how these concepts apply to various putative individual organisms. We conclude that complex multicellular organisms and colonies of eusocial insects satisfy these three criteria, but that, in most cases (with at least one notable exception), colonies of modular organisms and genetic chimeras do not. While species do not meet these criteria, they may meet the criteria for a broader conceptthat of an evolutionary individualand sexual reproduction may be a specieslevel exaptation for enhancing evolvability. We also review the costs and benefits of internal genetic heterogeneity within putative individuals, demonstrating that high relatedness is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for individuality, and that, in some cases, genetic variability may have adaptive benefits at the level of the whole.
QRB2118|The concept of Irreducible Complexity (IC) has played a pivotal role in the resurgence of the creationist movement over the past two decades. Evolutionary biologists and philosophers have unambiguously rejected the purported demonstration of intelligent design in nature, but there have been several, apparently contradictory, lines of criticism. We argue that this is in fact due to Michael Behe's own incoherent definition and use of IC. This paper offers an analysis of several equivocations inherent in the concept of Irreducible Complexity and discusses the way in which advocates of the Intelligent Design Creationism (IDC) have conveniently turned IC into a moving target. An analysis of these rhetorical strategies helps us to understand why IC has gained such prominence in the IDC movement, and why, despite its complete lack of scientific merits, it has even convinced some knowledgeable persons of the impending demise of evolutionary theory.
QRB2072|Adaptive evolution can cause a species to gain, lose, or modify a function; therefore, it is of basic interest to determine whether any of these modes dominates the evolutionary process under particular circumstances. Because mutation occurs at the molecular level, it is necessary to examine the molecular changes produced by the underlying mutation in order to assess whether a given adaptation is best considered as a gain, loss, or modification of function. Although that was once impossible, the advance of molecular biology in the past half century has made it feasible. In this paper, I review molecular changes underlying some adaptations, with a particular emphasis on evolutionary experiments with microbes conducted over the past four decades. I show that by far the most common adaptive changes seen in those examples are due to the loss or modification of a pre-existing molecular function, and I discuss the possible reasons for the prominence of such mutations.
QRB2148|There has been a recent resurgence of interest in the study of play behavior, marked by much empirical research and theoretical review. These efforts suggest that play may be of greater biological significance than most scientists realize. Here we present a brief synopsis of current play research covering issues of adaptive function, phylogeny, causal mechanisms, and development. Our goal is to selectively highlight contemporary areas of research in which the underlying processes and consequences of play should not be ignored. We elucidate some of the new and burgeoning areas of play research and interpret them from an integrative biological theoretical perspective that highlights areas in need of further experimental, comparative, and field research.
QRB1183|Direct interactions among conspecific and heterospecific animals are often mediated by aggressive behavior. We analyze the ecology and evolution of resource-related heterospecific aggression (HA) by reviewing and meta-analyzing 126 studies, contrasting HA with conspecific aggression (CA), and discussing terminological confusions and conceptual models. HA occurred in 78% of tests (n = 459), suggesting a high prevalence and potential effect on niche use and community structure. The benefits of both CA and HA are linked to resource defensibility and abundance, yet HA can change independently of CA. Ecological inferences about HA are often weak because they assume that interference always results from resource competition, and evolutionary inferences made by comparing HA to CA are also weak because they usually ignore history. We believe that comparisons between situations where a focal species is allopatric from and sympatric with a heterospecific competitor provide better opportunities to test hypotheses about HA. In general, according to our data set, aggression was higher with increased resource overlap as expected, both because CA was greater than HA, and HA was greater within compared to between genera. Progress in understanding HA requires distinguishing traits (aggressive behavior) from interactions (agonism, interference), as well as from the ecological and evolutionary causes (competition, ancestry) and consequences (dominance, territoriality, exclusion) of those interactions.
QRB1478|The occurrence of endoreplication has been repeatedly reported in many organisms, including protists, plants, worms, arthropods, molluscs, fishes, and mammals. As a general rule, cells possessing endoreplicated genomes are largesized and highly metabolically active. Endoreplication has not been frequently reported in neuronal cells that are typically considered to be fully differentiated and nondividing, and which normally contain a diploid genome. Despite this general statement, various papers indicate that giant neurons in molluscs, as well as supramedullary and hypothalamic magnocellular neurons in fishes, contain DNA amounts larger than 2C. In order to study this issue in greater detail here, we review the available data about endoreplication in invertebrate and vertebrate neurons, and discuss its possible functional significance. As a whole, endoreplication seems to be a sort of molecular trick used by neurons in response to the high functional demands that they experience during evolution.
QRB1487|We consider several ways in which a good understanding of modern techniques and principles in physics can elucidate ecology, and we focus on analogical reasoning between these two branches of science. Analogical reasoning requires an understanding of both sciences and an appreciation of the similarities and points of contact between the two. In the current ecological literature on the relationship between ecology and physics, there has been some misunderstanding about the nature of modern physics and its methods. Physics is seen as being much cleaner and tidier than ecology. When compared to this idealized, fictional version of physics, ecology looks very different, and the prospect of ecology and physics learning from one another is questionable. We argue that physics, once properly understood, is more like ecology than ecologists have thus far appreciated. Physicists and ecologists can and do learn from each other, and, in this paper, we outline how analogical reasoning can facilitate such exchanges.
QRB1727|Community ecology is often perceived as a mess, given the seemingly vast number of processes that can underlie the many patterns of interest, and the apparent uniqueness of each study system. However, at the most general level, patterns in the composition and diversity of speciesthe subject matter of community ecologyare influenced by only four classes of process: selection, drift, speciation, and dispersal. Selection represents deterministic fitness differences among species, drift represents stochastic changes in species abundance, speciation creates new species, and dispersal is the movement of organisms across space. All theoretical and conceptual models in community ecology can be understood with respect to their emphasis on these four processes. Empirical evidence exists for all of these processes and many of their interactions, with a predominance of studies on selection. Organizing the material of community ecology according to this framework can clarify the essential similarities and differences among the many conceptual and theoretical approaches to the discipline, and it can also allow for the articulation of a very general theory of community dynamics: species are added to communities via speciation and dispersal, and the relative abundances of these species are then shaped by drift and selection, as well as ongoing dispersal, to drive community dynamics.
QRB1724|Although invasive species are viewed as major threats to ecosystems worldwide, few such species have been studied in enough detail to identify the pathways, magnitudes, and timescales of their impact on native fauna. One of the most intensively studied invasive taxa in this respect is the cane toad (
QRB1722|Science progresses faster when researchers operate within an explicit framework of concepts and theories, but currently biology has no explicit, overarching conceptual framework and few general theories. The single general theory currently recognized is that of evolution, which was put forth by Charles Darwin 150 years ago. Recently,
QRB1525|Assessing the biodiversity of macroinvertebrate fauna in freshwater ecosystems is an essential component of both basic ecological inquiry and applied ecological assessments. Aspects of taxonomic diversity and composition in freshwater communities are widely used to quantify water quality and measure the efficacy of remediation and restoration efforts. The accuracy and precision of biodiversity assessments based on standard morphological identifications are often limited by taxonomic resolution and sample size. Morphologically based identifications are laborious and costly, significantly constraining the sample sizes that can be processed. We suggest that the development of an assay platform based on DNA signatures will increase the precision and ease of quantifying biodiversity in freshwater ecosystems. Advances in this area will be particularly relevant for benthic and planktonic invertebrates, which are often monitored by regulatory agencies. Adopting a genetic assessment platform will alleviate some of the current limitations to biodiversity assessment strategies. We discuss the benefits and challenges associated with DNA-based assessments and the methods that are currently available. As recent advances in microarray and next-generation sequencing technologies will facilitate a transition to DNA-based assessment approaches, future research efforts should focus on methods for data collection, assay platform development, establishing linkages between DNA signatures and well-resolved taxonomies, and bioinformatics.
2816370|Melanocytes may be regarded as unicellular, pigment-secreting glands, largely though not entirely confined to the epidermis, of which they are a constant though often un-recognized cellular component. Their numerical incidence, and their branching form, with numerous dichotomizing processes, are such as to form a reticular system within the epidermis. Evidence is evaluated that they are a race or lineage of cells sui generis and form a self-maintaining system within the epidermis. Their product-melanin granules-is secreted directly into the cytoplasm of neighboring Malpighian cells upon which the processes of the melanocytes terminate in the form of small swellings or end-caps. The several types of branched cells demonstrable within the epidermis by various techniques are discussed in relation to their identity as living melanocytes, or as effete cells of this lineage which, having lost or discharged their pigment, participate in the general out-ward movement of epidermal cells to be lost from the skin surface. The color variants of skin and hair, including spotting and albinism, are the direct result of melanocyte activity, and have been shown to be determined by the action and interaction of multiple genes, some of which operate via the milieu in which the pigment cells reside and others of which appear to act intracellularly and to control the biochemical steps of melanogenesis. The problem of pigment spread is discussed and related to the anatomy of the melanocyte system and to the co-existence of variant types of melanocytes within a single individual.
2816371|A comprehensive review of Soviet microbial genetics during the period 1940-1958, but especially for the years 1950 through 1957, has been based on 297 translated abstracts and 284 full articles. One full paper and 57 abstracts in this total came from the scientific literature of the People's Democracies; the remainder were from the USSR. In addition, 456 titles or brief indicative abstracts were examined. The items covered were grouped into twelve major areas of subject matter, in some of which there was evidence of extensive work, in others of very little. The retarding influence of Lysenko and his group upon the development of genetics, and the almost equally restrictive influence of Lepeshinskaya's doctrine of the origin of cells from non-living matter, were widely evident. Work on Mutation, Adaptation, and Variation was scanty and inferior; but in the area of the Chemistry of Inheritance increased activity and interest are apparent. Drug Resistance and Antibiosis, because of practical outcomes, was an emphasized area; genetic methods are being used to screen for antibiotics. Sexual Recombination was a neglected area. Work on Growth, Cell Division and Cell Theory was strongly under the influence of the Lepeshinskaya school, but there were signs of sharp criticism of those views and an awakening interest in studies like those conducted in the West. Evolution and Ecology was an area dominated by the pro- and anti-Lysenkoist controversy. The effects of altered environments were widely studied; but the role of natural selection as a major factor was mentioned more frequently after 1954. Most papers on microbial Metabolism and Physiology had little orientation toward genetics, but there was some evidence of awakening interest in DNA, adaptive enzyme mechanisms, pure culture techniques, etc. Host-Parasite Relationships, Medical Microbiology, and Immunology make up an are that showed from 1955-56 on an increasing independence of Lysenko and Lepeshinskaya, as discussion, if not laboratory experimentation, focused on bacteriophage studies, the biochemistry of phage infection, and studies of plant and animal viruses. Some of the work in the field of Industrial Microbiology and Methodology also showed, after the mid-fifties, a departure from Michurin-Lysenko doctrine, and even inter- and intra-specific competition was thought to be involved in the production of useful varieties. On the whole the trends in the industrial laboratories closely reflected the progress and ideas in the microbiological laboratories devoted to basic research. Radiation Biology was a field in which the workers seemed thoroughly acquainted with the Western literature on the subject and were using a wide variety of up-to-date methods. In the category of Miscellaneous and General Microbiology the use of ultrasonic methods and great interest in soil microbiology were notable. Finally, History and Ideology represent an important element of the genetic microbiological picture, for reasons already given. The major trend was a decline from the mid-fifties of the once complete dominance of Lysenko and Lepeshinskaya. A more critical, better informed science is developing. A major defect in the scientific literature of USSR microbial genetics has been the characteristics tendency of workers to discus in general terms and draw sweeping conclusion without supplying either a sufficient account of the experimental methods they used or their quantitative data. Again, a trend toward a more critical, adequately documented presentation of scientific findings in apparent since the mid-fifties. Rapid progress is now being made in this field, and Soviet workers seem to be fully aware of the latest advances in microbial genetics which have been made elsewhere in recent years.
2814600|This review illustrates the thesis that the concepts and techniques of animal virology may provide effective measures for analyzing genetic and epigenetic relations in developing cells. The authors discuss first the effects of introducing nucleic acid in the form of virus on the subsequent history of a cell, paying particular attention to the modification of patterns of differentiation and growth by tumor viruses. The question, can viruses be used to study the origin of differences in cell specific properties, is approached by examining the pathologic effects of viruses on embryos. The role of viruses as causative agents in congenital malformations is considered. Viruses are not only agents for modifying the course of development and for detecting when differences arise in cells. Experiments from several disciplines are discussed which focus on the concept of recombination between vertebrate somatic cells. Can intercellular transfer of subcellular units modify patterns of synthesis in embryonic cells? Among the examples treated are the transfer of enzyme forming capacity by epigenetic recombination in bacterial and vertebrate cells; transfer of antibody forming capacity; the selective uptake and exchange of subcellular particles in the chick embryo; and the use of viruses to facilitate transfer of information between vertebrate cells. Finally the application of recent genetic findings, arising from virological and other microbiological studies, to the ontogeny of one class of specific proteins, antibodies, is explored.
2814601|Two methods of analysis of the fine structure of genes are discussed. These methods yield data that support the concept of linear organization within a gene. This organization is apparent in both genetic and complementation maps. Experiments designed to give information concerning the mechanism of complementation are described. These data indicate that it is possible to simulate complementation in vivo. In this case complementation in vivo in Neurospora crassa is characterized by the ability of two ad-4 mutants growing together as a heterocaryon to produce functional adenylosuccinase, which neither mutant can make when grown alone. The simulated complementation occurs in vitro by mixing partially purified and presumably differentially defective forms of mutant adenylosuccinase. Maximum efficiency of complementation in vitro is obtained when attempting to modify or interchange-SH and-S-S-bonds of the protein. Theoretically, such a treatment could result in the formation of aggregates, hybrid molecules, or complexes of various forms. It is postulated that if this means of restoring enzyme activity is the mechanism of complementation in vivo, then the complementation maps is a reflection of the structure and properties of the enzyme rather than the gene. The similarities between genetic and complementation maps can be accounted for by a template model for the gene-protein relationship. This theory also explains occasional discrepancies between genetic and complementation maps, since such maps presumably correspond respectively to the structure of different macromolecules, DNA in the former case, protein in the latter.
2816806|Two processes, mutation and paramutation, are postulated to account for the observed heritable changes in the immediate R region of chromosome 10 in maize. Mutation is sporadic, undirected, and yields stable alleles having distinctive effects on aleurone and plant pigmentation. Paramutation occurs invariably in certain heterozygotes, is directed, and gives unstable alleles conditioning intergrading phenotypes. The paramutant phenotype is R-locus dependent, but paramutagenicity and pigment production are separable functions. Paramutation occurs in somatic cells; and paramutable R alleles are widespread in Zea mays. An R factor in a heterozygote with a strongly paramutagenic allele may itself become weakly paramutagenic. Reciprocal translocations involving chromosome breaks at remote points, proximal or distal to R, and in coupling with the latter, increase pigment-producing action of R, and render R comparatively insensitive to paramutation in R
2816805|This paper was given before the Genetics Section of the Moscow Society of Natural Science on November 26, 1957; before the joint session of the Geographical Society of USSR and the All-Union Botanical Society in Leningrad, December 6, 1957; and in Moscow on January 11, 1958 before the students of the Timiryazev Academy. A review, by I. Grebenschikova and F. Schultz, was printed in Der Zuchter, 28 (4): 161-166 (1958).
2816032|The importance of bacteria in oceans and lakes is slowly gaining recognition. The post-war Soviet studies on the Black Sea have led to the development of techniques which are being used in the "complex studies" being conducted on virtually all major water bodies of the world. These investigations, which are primarily concerned with the productivity of water basins, have led to some very interesting observations from "pole to pole." Included are studies such as the bacterial development in the region of the North Pole, chemosynthesis in water reservoirs, and the use of bacteria as hydrological indicators of Antarctic water masses. The purpose of this review is to draw attention to and discuss the nature and extent of Soviet work in aquatic bacteriology.
2816033|Preliminary investigations dealing with the relationship existing between the morphology of the bird's skull and its kinetic possibilities, appear to show that the thecodont ancestors of Birds, as well as Archaeopteryx were almost certainly akinetic. Kinetism developed early, but at least in some measure independently in the various avian orders. The amount of kinetic movement possible appears to be related to several morphological features, such as the structure of the palate, the relationship of the pterygoid and the braincase, the development of the ossification of the septum nasi, etc., which are usually considered of great taxonomic significance. It is therefore argued that the functional implications of such structures should be carefully considered when studying these features in order to ascertain the evolution and taxonomy of birds.
2818518|A hypothesis for the emergence of a cell system from primitive, non-cellular, living systems is proposed. The first living system is assumed to have been a reflexively catalytic system which showed the biological properties of self-formation in at least some of its variants. Natural selection would have acted on such a system and further development might be viewed in terms of selection pressures which would tend to extend the period of survival of the individual systems and shortern the period needed for self-formation. It is argued that functions and structures anticipatory of present cell systems would be selected under such conditions. Special attention is given to the emergence of the genetic apparatus; it is concluded that it emerged not as the primitive and simplest form of an organism but as a considerably later development, after establishment of a metabolically complex system. Natural selection is viewed as an ordering principle in biopoietic studies.
2818519|The distribution of chemical components in skeletal structures (cell walls), neurohormones, iodinated amino acids, sialic acid, sterols, bile salts, fatty acids, quinones, carotenoids, aldolase, glyoxylate cycle, cytochromes, DNA bases, amino acids, and phosphagens in organisms (particularly microorganisms) is described. The use of such biochemical markers in determining phylogeny and species relationships is discussed.
2818333|The prominent hypotheses conderning stomatal operation are discussed in relation to present knowledge. Recent experimental findings, under the light microscope, of high levels of protoplasmic streamig in guard cells, completely reversible opening and closing of stomata, and changes in neutral red accumulation, are presented. Preliminary electron microscopy of the guard cell is also presented. A simplified scheme shows the probable biochemical changes involved in opening and closing Vicia faba stomata. The Scheme emphasizes the lack of specificity of certain inhibitors of guard cell activity.
2818334|Sewage, sludges, and effluents contain appreciable amounts of phosphates, which become a decisive factor in excessive growth of algae and other forms of life when these wastes are discharged into waterways. The presence of phosphates in a body of water indicates its pollution with sewage or other organic wastes. After proper treatment these wastes may be applied to soil and the phosphates thus used to improve crop growth. Much of the readily "available" phosphorus in a fertilizer is quickly "fixed" by the reactive iron and aluminum in soil, and later is released slowly. In waters, however, practically all the soluble phosphorus entering them becomes immediately available for abundant growth of algae, bacteria, and other forms, resulting in serious problems. When these organisms die and decompose, the oxygen in the water is depleted and offensive changes occur; some organisms produce toxic substances. When sewage and effluents must be discharged into watercourses, phosphorus should be removed from them or reduced to a safe level.he effectiveness of various methods of phosphate removal is examined, and suggestions are made, in the light of accumulating evidence, for obtaining satisfactory results by a combination of biological and chemical methods.
2818332|Transpiration from a plant leaf is considered as a gaseous diffusion process driven by the net radiation absorbed by a leaf. The transpiration process is formulated analytically and the required transpiration rates are given for specified environmental conditions. Transpiration is limited by the internal diffusion resistance of a leaf; values of the resistance are reported for a number of native species. The midday slump of photosynthesis and transpiration, which often occurs during warm summer days, can be explained on a biochemical-biophysical basis related to high leaf temperatures.
2818803|Considerable revisionary effort is currently being directed toward the systematics of the Fungi Imperfecti and, in particular, toward the classification of the hyphomycetous molds. The classical system of Saccardo, with its emphasis on relatively superficial morphological and ecological characters, provides a classification niche for every known fungus but often is useless in revealing taxonomic relationships based on characters more nearly fundamental than habit, color, or spore septation. A discussion of the requirements of a new, information-rich classification is used to introduce a review of recent systematic revisions based on methods of asexual spore production observed among these fungi.
2818800|A type culture collection may be regarded as a storehouse of genetic diversity. The study of bacterial relatedness through genetic transformation reactions reveals the identity or similarity of restricted portions of the genomes of the strains or species compared. For example, in spite of lack of any detectable antigenic relationship between pneumococcus and streptococcal strains, transfer of streptomycin and erythromycin resistance is possible between them, and certain sections of the bacterial chromosomes must therefore be sufficiently complementary to permit hybridization at those places. Comparisons of base ratios in the respective DNA's and of specific antigenic characters may assist in the study of bacterial relatedness. Eventually nucleotide analysis will be possible and will permit direct comparisons. Recent developments thus show that the science of bacterial taxonomy is not a dead thing but a dynamic investigation of living properties by microbiological, genetic, and biochemical means.
2818802|The increased use of microorganisms as experimental objects for detailed studies of various biological phenomena has led to impressive advances in their interpretation in molecular terms. This has resulted in a tendency to equate microbiology with "molecular biology." In the author's opinion this attitude is unfortunate, because it fails to direct attention to the importance of microorganisms for the study of problems that are as yet, inaccessible to the approaches of molecular biology. The enormously diverse microbial world offers numerous opportunities for exploratory studies of complex problems on a non-molecular level, particularly as they related to levels of organization of component parts and interactions among them and with the environment. Such investigations can eventually provide the molecular biologist with material for more refined analysis. A plea is made for the perpetuation and extension of broad biological approaches to microbiology, in which the potential advantages of diverse kinds for exploratory studies of complex phenomena can be indicated. Finally, the great significance of extensive collections of microorganisms in a viable state is emphasized.
2818805|The ontogenesis of those genetic differences in form which are homeomorphic, that is, which can be expressed in terms of meausrements, is considered. Particualar stress is laid on the advantages of longitudinal (versus cross-sectional, static, and mixed) data, and on the necessity of adapting the method of analysis to the type of data. Bivariate and multivariate methods of analysis are discussed, and the analysis of simple allometry is treated in detail. No existing multivariate method is competent to deal with longitudinal data; a way of overcoming this is suggested. Work on single-gene and multiple-gene diferences, and comparisons between related species, are critically examined. Instances in which the allometry line is simply shifted in position, without change in K (the coefficient of allometry) are common; well-established differences in K are relatively rare. When differences in K do occur, they often result in intersection of the allometry lines, or in convergence toward older ages. It is suggested that this results from the combined effects of genes which singly affect either position alone, or K. Evolutionary allometry is held to be a description of evolutionary trends, not an explanation of them in terms of growth. Theories of growth control and regeneration are discussed, and aspects which need reexamination using longitudinal methods of analysis are indicated.
2818801|The gradual emergence of the need for a modern type culture collection, first for bacteria and fungi, and later for cell cultures and viruses, is traced from early American workers of the late Nineteenth Century and the first decade of this century. The centralization of the collection of cultures for distribution was apparently first suggested by C.-E. A. Winslow of Yale. The collection he put together was maintained for a few years in the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Later it moved to Washington, then to the Hektoen Laboratories of Rush Medical School in Chicago, then back to Washington (Department of Agriculture), then to Georgetown University, later to a leased apartment house and, finally, to the quite adequate structure at Rockville, Maryland, a suburb of Washington. An analysis of the functions of an adequate culture collection and the promise of leadership on the part of the American Type Culture Collection is included.
2818804|The recognition that animal cell strains may change in character during serial subcultures, may contain microbial contaminants, or may become mixed with animal cells of diverse lineage led to the development of a program to characterize systematically and preserve the prototype strains and their derivatives, and to establish a repository and distribution center for reference cultures. The problems involved are as follows: (1) development of freeze-preservation methods suitable for preparation and storage of reference stocks at ultra-low temperatures; (2) establishment of viability criteria to judge the efficiency of recovery of cells from the frozen state; (3) certification of reference cultures as being free from microbial contamination (particularly mycoplasmas), and development of methods of eliminating such contaminants; (4) identification of cells as to species of origin; and (5) characterization on the basis of karyology, morphology, growth characteristics, genetic and biochemical markers, virus susceptibility, tumorigenicity, and other special properties. The procedures and tests developed for use are discussed with regard to their application to reference seed stocks of cell lines selected for the Cell Culture Collection.
2818799|The Past Development of museums has been notably lacking in attention to the preservation, study, and exhibition to the lay public of microbial organisms. The new building of the American Type Culture Collection in Washington, D. C., is intended to provide such a facility.
2819933|Seed dormancy is an adaptive mechanism of growth cessation which often confers upon some species a selective advantage in distribution and abundance. Although relatively few alpine species exhibit seed dormancy, the dominant or abundant species of most communities do so. The causes of seed dormancy in alpine plants appear to be as diverse and typical as for any other ecologic group. Seed coat inhibition is probably the most common cause of alpine seed dormancy. A requirement for pregermination chilling (stratification) or for after-ripening account for very little alpine seed dormancy. Of some 60 species investigated which set viable seed, 8 require scarification of the seed coat for germination, 3 require pregermination chilling, 2 require after-ripening, and 6 exhibit weak or vague photosensitivity. Data are inconclusive and fragmentary respecting the viability, germinability, and ripening of alpine seeds, primarily because of variation in latitude, altitude, and variable dates of collection. Consequently, natural germination requirements are known for relatively few alpine species. Significant correlations exist between type of seed dormancy in alpine plants and certain environmental factor. Soil disturbance is the most characteristic feature of the alpine environment. Seed coat inhibition appears correlated with most frequent occurrence of species exhibiting seed dormancy on sites of severe soil disturbance. As an ecologic phenomenon, seed dormancy appears to be represented in at least one species in each major alpine community type. It is proposed that seed dormancy may account for the relative abundance and successional success of the dominant species. With regard to the nature and extend of seed dormancy, intraspecific variations among ecotypes occur, and may contribute to the relative abundance and success of a species in different communities.
2819932|A growing consensus of biologists now favors the effectiveness of long-distance dispersal as a means of populating islands. The observational and experimental bases on which this opinion rests are strong, but additional work is needed. A clear under-standing of long-distance dispersal is essential to an understanding of evolutionary trends on oceanic islands, because immigrant patterns are different from relict patterns. Since oceanic islands are short-lived, the evolutionary history of waif immigrants is also short. If a continental islands maintains long isolation, arrivals by long-distance dispersal may show evolutionary patterns more completely, as is true on New Zealand for example. The evolutionary patterns of waif biotas are influenced by isolation, by the broad range of available ecological opportunities, and, to a lesser extent, by the moderation characteristic of maritime climates. In addition to problems involved in becoming established, immigrants must overcome genetic disadvantages inherent in the fact that the number of original colonists is mall. Increase of genetic variability may be governed by ecological diversity, and persistence of a phylad may be increased by maximizing outcrossing and hybridization. Among features which are exhibited by waif biotas are adaptive radiation, flightlessness in animals, loss of dispersal mechanism in plants, and development of new ecological habits and growth forms. Each of these adaptations is evidently governed by a wide variety of factors. "Weedy" groups seem to possess the greatest ability to disperse and become established; they also excel at sensitive adaptation to island conditions. The waif biota contains few relicts except for "recent relicts."
2819934|Comparative psychology emphasizes similarities and differences between levels in both the abilities and the organization of behavior. Studies of the organization of species-typical behavior have lagged because of insufficient attention to organization-relevant problems in behavioral ontogenesis. They have also lagged because of a contemporary emphasis on specialized, molecular problems dictated by such positivistic doctrines as the Pavlovian, the Lorenzian, the Hullian, and the Skinnerian. Implications of instinctivistic concepts of behavior are discussed, especially the damping effect they have imposed on developmental research. As an antidote, logical steps are out-lined toward studying the "whole organism" in comparative psychology. To this end a developmental theory is advanced, centered on redefinitions of the concepts of "maturation" and "experience," and designed to suggest a widened range of hypotheses for developmental research, as well as to avoid the blind alleys of such traditional dichotomies as nature versus nurture and innate versus acquired. "Muturation and experience, as redefined in this article, denote factors that are fundamentally fused or coalesced in their developmental effects, and thus are separable only as abstractions. A concept of interactionism, therefore, that implies engagements of separate and disjunctive developmental entities seems invalid, at least for early stages. Investigations based upon this holistic "maturation-experience" theory are discussed. Maturation is not correctly expressed as an "unfolding" of functions; experience is not synonymous with conditioning and learning, which are vague terms for processes recognizable at advanced stages. Approach and withdrawal stand out as modes of behavior fundamental to environmental adaptations on all levels; hence these processes with their derivatives are central to a theory of behavioral development advanced for comparative psychology.
2820436|Factors that influence the formation and volumes of embryonic fluids in amphibia, birds, and mammals are reviewed. Some bodies of fluids segregate discretely only in embryonic and fetal stages; others form permanently in cavities or interstitial compartments. Major volume changes during development are described, especially for blastocoel, archenteron, amniotic, allantoic, and interstitial fluids. Epithelial layers secrete fluids into sealed cavities. The rates of secretion per unit of surface resemble one another to a surprising degree; in large species, prolongation of activity yields the larger volumes. Secretion in some surfaces may cease at a predetermined age; in others, cell deaths allow fluids to disperse. Thus redistributions of fluids change with age both absolutely and relately to their sum. Replacement or regeneration of cavity fluids has not yet been clearly demonstrated. Embryonic sacs appear to secrete nearly isotonic fluids in accordance with intrinsic programs of the cells constituting the sacs.
2819803|In recent years there has been important progress in the study of man's origins and evolution and in the development of man's capacity for culturally patterned behavior. These advances have been the result of developments in relative and absolute age determination of fossil hominid remains and the sediments that contain them; in the recovery of hominid skeletal remains that fill significant gaps in the fossil record and often provide new and unsuspected evidence of the morphology and functional structure fo the early Hominidae; and in the discovery, controlled excavation, and detailed evaluation of contexts, associations, and residues of early hominid occupation places. The nature and probable significance of these discoveries are critically evaluated, especially with respect to ongoing and future research problems of paleoanthropology.
2820379|A critical evaluation of the phylogeny and evolution of the plants classified as bacteria, algae, and fungi has been made. The evolution of chemical characters (porphyrins, carotenoids, carbohydrates, and lipids and sterols), micromorphological characters (cell wall, hereditary apparatus, flagellar apparatus, photosynthetic apparatus, mitochondria, and Golgi apparatus), and functional characters (metabolism of hygrogen, nitrogen, sulfur, and carbon, including respiration, photosynthetic energy transformation, and photosynthetic carbon fixation) are discussed. Phylogenetic interrelations among thallophytes are evaluated on the basis of each of these characters. The final section of the review discusses the phylogeny of organisms in the divisions and classes of the thallophytes as suggested by chemical, micromorphological, functional, and life cycle criteria.
2818420|The biology, economic importance, physiology, ecology, cytology, and genetics of the parasitic wasp, Mormoniella vitripennis (=Nasonia brevicornis), are reviewed, and its use and value in research are also considered. Normally Mormoniella is an ectoparasite, and uses the pupae of larger Diptera as hosts; at 28
2827976|Bartz's (1979) inbreeding hypothesis on termite social evolution predicted that (1) all termite colonies should have supplementary reproductives, (2) the winged alates should be the offspring of inbreeding supplementaries, and (3) alates should outbreed. These predictions are examined here for each family and subfamily of the Isoptera. Prediction 1 is at least superficially upheld for most termites that do produce either neotenic or adultoid reproductives. The rate of supplementary and replacement reproduction, however, varies greatly between different taxa. Prediction 2 is not upheld for the majority of termites because primary reproductives tend to be long lived and primary-headed colonies do generate alates. It may be upheld for Mastotermes, many of the Rhinotermitidae, and some Termitidae. Prediction 3 appears to be true for most termines, although support for it is inferential only. The breeding pedigrees of termites vary greatly with their ecological specializations and it is unlikely that Bartz's model can be reconciled to such variation. Bart's hypothesis also makes certain assumptions about the nature of caste differentiation and the nature of the behavior underlying the sociality of termites. These assumptions are discussed and some criticisms are made. We conclude that inbreeding according to Bartz's model may be a contributing factor in the social evolution of some termites but is probably not the major initiating or sustaining factor in termite social evolution.
2827977|The scaling of the basal rate of metabolism in mammals is reexamined. Both the power and level of the scaling function are sensitive to various factors that interact with body mass and rate of metabolism, including the precision of temperature regulation, food habits, and activity level. This sensitivity implies that the rate of metabolism is a highly plastic character in the course of evolution. Consequently, the singular effect of mass on the rate of metabolism is most effectively analyzed in ecologically and physiologically uniform sets of species, rather than in taxonomically defined groups, which often are ecologically and physiologically diverse. Otherwise, all fitted curves for mammals integrate a variety of competing factors, thereby reflecting the species used and denying unique analytic significance to the power in scaling relations. Kleiber's eutherian curve may represent a relatively uniform set of data because all the species included were domesticated and because selection for high rates of production (and high rates of metabolism) occurred in the process of domestication. In the analysis of scaling relationships, the standard error of estimate (Sy x) is a more valuable measure of the residual variation than is (1.0 - r<sup>2</sup>) because r<sup>2</sup> is a non-linear measure of the conformation of data to the relation and because Sy x, unlike r<sup>2</sup>, is independent of the units used in the scaling relationship. At present the best estimate indicates that total rate of metabolism scales proportionally to approximately m<sup>0</sup>.60 at small masses (< 300 g), as long as small species do not enter torpor, and scales proportionally to approximately m<sup>0</sup>.75 a large masses ( 300 g). Physiolgocal properties other than metabolism are potentially sensitive to secondary factors, so their scaling functions also would be most clearly defined for physiologically uniform groups of species. This view suggests that insight into the significance of scaling relations can be obtained by examining the residual variation around a scaling function as well as by examining conformation to the function.
2832265|Sessile, clonal invertebrates frequently encounter conspecifics as they grow over hard substrata and compete for space. Allorecognition systems mediate the nature and outcomes of these encouters by controlling somatic compatibility (fusion versus nonfusion) and agonistic behavior (aggression versus nonaggression). In general, clonemates (and sometimes close relatives) can fuse somatically, whereas more distant relatives are incompatible. Many anthozoan and hydrozoan cnidarians behave passively when in contact with clonemates and close kin, but fight aggressibely when contacting more distant relatives. This high degree of allorecognition specificity, when considered togehter with the few available data on the formal genetics of allorecognition, suggests that levels of polymorphism at allorecognition loci (i.e., allotypic variation) exceed by perhaps an order of magnitude the levels typical of other polymorphic loci. In this paper, I evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the selectionist and nonselectionist theories that have been proposed to account for the evolution and persistence of allotypic polymorphism. It remains difficult to accept or reject any of these hypotheses in the absence of detailed empirical information concerning levels and patterns of allelic variation at allorecognition loci. Nevertheless, mathematical considerations and the available data together suggest that frequency-dependent or spatially variable selection are the strongest candidates for the maintenance of allotypic variation. Although the pleiotropic effects of allorecognition loci (e.g., the regulation of gametic compatibility or pathogenic defense) could maintain allotypic variation, pleiotropy by itself does not account for the widespread evolution of aggressive behavior and somatic compatibility conditioned by allotypic similarity. It is theoretically possible that frequency-dependent selection acting at the level of the individual maintains allotypic polymorphism by restricting somatic fusion; it is less clear how individual selection maintains allotypic variation through the regulation of agonistic behavior.
2832266|Comparative methods can be used to test ideas about adaptation by identifying cases of either parallel or convergent evolutionary change across taxa. Phylogenetic relationhips must be known or inferred if comparative methods are to separate the cross-taxonomic covariation among traits associated with evolutionary change from that attributable to common ancestry. Only the former can be used to test ideas linking convergent or parallel evolutionary change to some aspect of the environment. The comparative methods that are currenlty available differ in how they manage the effects brought about by phylogenetic relationships. One method is applicable only to discrete data, and uses cladistic techniques to identify evolutionary events that depart from phylogenetic trends. Techniques for continuous variables attempt to control for plylogenetic effects in a variety of ways. One method examines the taxonomic distribution of variance to identify the taxa within which character variation is small. The method assumes that taxa with small amounts of variation are those in which little evolutionary change has occurred, and thus variation is unlikely to be independent of ancestral trends. Analyses are then concentrated among taxa that show more variation, on the assumption that greater evolutionary change in the character has taken place. Several methods estimate directly the extent to which ancestry can predict the observed variation of a character, and subtract the ancestral effect to reveal variation independent of phylogeny. Yet another can remove phylogenetic effects if the true phylogeny is known. One class of comparative methods controls for phylogenetic effects by searching for comparative trends within rather than across taxa. With current knowledge of phylogenies, there is a trade-off in the choice of a comparative method: those that control phylogenetic effects with greater certainty are either less applicable to real data, or they make restrictive or untestable assumptions. Those that rely on statistical patterns to infer phylogenetic effects may not control phylogeny as efficiently but are more readily applied to existing data sets.
2830999|Nest and offspring defence by birds can be treated as an optimization problem wherein fitness benefits are determined by the survival of the current brood and fitness costs depend upon the probability that the parent will survive to breed again. At the optimal intensity of defence, net fitness benefits are maximized. Unlike many other aspects of animal behavior, the reproductive consequences of nest defence can often be measured directly. Within this optimality framework, we review the current adaptive hypotheses to explain both interspecific and intraspecific variation in nest defence behavior, and we present some new ideas of our own. Most research to date has focused on seasonal patterns of nest defence to test the prediction that the intensity of nest defence should increase through the nesting cycle either because renesting potential declines or because the probability of offspring survival increases rapidly relative to that of the parents. Studies testing the renesting potential hypothesis have both supported and rejected it, but few studies to date have been controlled well enough to allow us to distinguish between the two hypotheses. The intensity of nest defence is also predicted to increase with parental experience and confidence of parenthood; offspring number, quality and vulnerability; and nest accessibility and conspicuousness. The response of parents is also expected to vary with the relative armament and mobility of parent and predator and the relative roles of the parents in caring for their offspring. Although there is some evidence supporting many of these predictions, most have not been explicitly tested while holding other factors constant. The tendency for researchers to ignore variables that might influence the intensity of nest defence makes the conclusions of most studies that find support for any single adaptive hypothesis relatively unconvincing. Like Optimal Foraging Theory, however, a comprehensive functional theory of nest defence based on life-history theory can help us to elucidate many of the patterns observed in this important aspect of the parental care behavior of a wide variety of animals.
2830998|The ability of parasites to change the behavior of infected hosts has been documented and reviewed by a number of different authors (Holmes adn Bethel, 1972; Moore, 1984a). This review attempts to quantify the population dynamic consequences of this behavior by developing simple mathematical models for the most frequently recorded of such parasite life cycles. Although changes in the behavior of infected hosts do occur for pathogens with direct life cycles, they are most commonly recorded in the intermediate hosts of parasites with complex life cycles. All the changes in host behavior serve to increase rates of transmission of the parasites between hosts. In the simplest case the changes in behavior increase rates of contact between infected and susceptible conspecific hosts, whereas in the more complex cases fairly sophisticated manipulations of the host's behavioral repertory are achieved. Three topics are dealt with in some detail: (1) the behavior of the insect vectors of such diseases as malaria and trypanosomiasis; (2) the intermediate hosts of helminths whose behavior is affected in such a way as to make them more susceptible to predation by the definitive host in the life cycle; and (3) the behavior and fecundity of molluscs infected with asexually reproducing parasitic flatworms. In each case an expression is derived for R
2830426|Worker reproduction (i.e., the parthenogenetic production by workers of males and, more rarely, females) is very widespread in the higher eusocial Hymenoptera (bumble bees, stinglees bees, honey bees, vespine wasps, higher ants). Examples are given in the text. The mutualistic theory ("hopeful reproductive" hypothesis) of hymenopteran eusociality (semisocial route) states that the first workers were reproductive because the possibility of future reproduction was the condition for their originally working. In Hamilton's kinship theory (subsocial route) workers produce males on account of their greater relatedness to sons than to brothers. Several recent models indicate that worker male production could have facilitated the evolution of eusociality. Queen control (queen inhibition of worker fertility) arises because queens are more closely related to their own than to workers' offspring, and explains why present-day workers are most reproductive in queenless conditions. Conversely worker reproduction in queenright colonies (i.e., colonies containing the maternal queen) reflects selection on workers to evade queen control Optimization models predict that workers should produce all or none of a colony's males. Although workers in some species produce 100 per cent of the males, reproductive workers more usually produce an extremely variable proportion of males. When workers reproduce, the expected equilibrium sex ratios change; but the information needed to assess the importance for sex-ratio determination of worker male production is lacking. Kinship theory suggests that polygyny (multiple queens) and multimple mating both promote queeright worker reproduction by reducing intracolony genetic relatedness. The analysis of data assembled on 49 ant species reveals that workers in monogynous species (i.e., with one queen per colony) reproduce moslty in queenless conditions, whereas those in polygynous species reproduce in queenless and queenright conditions equally often, in agreement with kinship theory. Monogyny could favor a reproductive worker caste becuse the high probability of colony orphanage allows workers greater opportunity to reproduce free from queen control. The ability of workers to reproduce has important consequence for colony organization and function. These include (1) the extent and nature of queen control of worker fertility, such control being viewed as the outcome of an "arms race" with workers over male parentage; (2) the occurrence of dominance behavior, egg cannibalism, brood destruction, and possibly even matricide in colonies with reproductive workers; (3) reduced colony efficiency and the system of temporal division of labor based on worker age and ovarian development; and(4) the rarity of physical castes among workers. For all these reasons, worker reproduction is crucial to our understanding of hymenopteran eusociality.
2830425|Synchronized flashingby males of some firefly species involves a capacity for visually coordinated, rhythmically coincident, inter-individual behair that is apparently unique in the animal kingdom except for a few other arthropods and for man. This paper reviews (1) diverse communicative interactions that have evolved from elementary photic signals, (2) physiological mechanisms of synchronism, and (3) theories about its biological meaning. Work of the past 20 years shows that flash synchrony is widespread geographically and taxonomically, appears in an astonishing range of spectacular display types, utilizes several neural flash-control mechanisms and is pervasively but enigmatically involved in courthsip. No proposed function for synchrony has been fully established but theory and physiology concur in indicating that synchrony aids male orientation toward the female, female recognition of male flashing, or both. Increased mate choice for the female is one likely ultimate benefit.
2821657|The biological, social, and legal aspects of work on the fertilization of human ova in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos into the uterus of the mother are considered by a scientist engaged in these studies. The initial parts of the review provide descriptions of studies on the control of ovulation, and the methods developed for the culture of cleaving animal and human embryos. The main part of the review is devoted to the moral and ethical aspects such studies. An outline description is given, first, of the development of clinical methods in various fields, together with a consideration of the methods of fetal screening necessary in work on the reimplantation of human embryos. The position of the infertible patients, in relation to the development of studies of fertilization in vitro, is then discussed, including the assessment of some opinions expressed on the therapeutic nature of treatments based on the reimplantation of embryos. A brief description of genetic engineering, including its imminence, practicability, and dangers, is then given. Some theological, philosophical, and legal aspects of fertilization in vitro and the reimplantation of embryos are debated in the final sections of the review. These sections include a commentary on current discussions about the philosophical and theological aspects of the work. Descriptions are given of some examples in law relevant to clinical attempts to alleviate infertility, together with a consideration of the legal relationship between patients, offspring, and those doctors and scientists engaged in these clinical studies.
2821658|Reexamination of the specimens of Archaeopteryx, which constitute the only direct evidence pertaining to the habits and mode of life of the earliest stages of avian evolution, indicates that neither the highly favored arboreal theory nor the much critized cursorial theory offers adequate explanation for the origin of avian flight. The osteology of Archaeopteryx, in virtually every detail, is indistinguishable from that of contempraneous and succeeding coelurosaurian dinosaurs-especially in the details of the manus, forelimbs, and pectoral arch. It is proposed that these conditions reflect a highly predaceous mode of life for Archaeopteryx, rather than being arboreal adaptations. Plumage, in the form of contour feathers, is believed to have arisen in response to the need for controlling heat loss (and gain) and was secondarily modified on the fore limbs to enhance the prey-catching function of the hands. Enlargement of the primordial "primaries" and "secondaries" transformed the forelimbs of "proto-Archaeopteryx" into large, continous, trapping surfaces-natural insect nets-activated by powerful ventral adductor muscles (the pectoralis group). These adaptations were admirably preadaptive for active, flapping flight. The primordial insulative function of contour feathers and the predatory hypothesis for the enlargement of the remiges seem to account for the otherwise paradoxical presence in Archaeopteryx on essentially modern "flight" feathers in the absence of virtually all of the skeletal specializations that are associated with (or required for ?) modern bird flight, whereas those skeletal specializations that are present in Archaeopteryx are the same, or nearly the same, as those that are preserved in various (presumed) predaceous coelurosaurian dinosaurs.
2822909|Research on the complexity of organisms has advances through the use of simple systems like Hydra. The present article review some concepts concerning organization of Hydra. The body of Hydra is a storage organ for structural cell used in the maintenance of tentacles and foot. Excell cell are reject in buds. Changes occur in the size of the animal, in the proportion of its cells involved in maintenance and budding, and in the areas of the animal occupied by cells moving toward terminal strutures and converging on the budding region. In normal and regenerating hydras the mesoglea could aid in directing cell movement, nerves, differentiated from interstitial cells, could release neurosecretory products with inductive activity. Constructive controls promote development in the victinities of head, foot, and budding region. Two repressive controls seem to operate; negative dominance operated through cell-to-cell contact by drawing cells toward existing dominant centers; inhibition, dependent on the action of specific diffusible inhibitors of head and foot regeneration, may operate by preventing the differentiation of interstitial cells. Results on experimentally elongated multiple-graft animals indicate that the budding region forms at a point of minimal negative dominance without respect to the presence of the inhibitors. The production of inhibitors throughout the animal is controlled by continuity with the respective terminal structures and is disrupted by graft borders in elongated animals. Continuity with the head controls the destruction of foot inhibitor throughout the animal: continuity with the foot controls the head inhibitor, chiefly in the peduncle. Other substances may be present in diffusion gradients; one produced by dividing cells may direct cell loss through bud and graft rejection.
2822910|The explanation that have been offered for patterns of taxonomic diversity are related to the historic interplay of stochastic and deterministic philosophical concepts. New sets of taxonomic data are examined. Taxonomic diversity is related to ecological diversity, and to diversity in nonorganic and social realms as well.
2820942|An analysis of life history features of insect parasitoids and crustacean parasitic castrators suggests that these are similar trophic phenomena, distinct from parasitism and predation. A parasitoid consumes only one host during its lifetime; parasitic castrators cause the reproductive death of only one host. Since population densities of many insect species are regulated by parasitoids, parasitic castrators may also play an important role in host population regulation. Parasitoids of insects and parasitic castrators of crustaceans (1) in single infections always kill the host; whereas lone parasites do not affect host viability; and predators kill many prey; (2) do not cause increasing pathology or increasing likelihood of mortality in multiple infections; whereas parasites often have an additive impact; (3) do not cause increasing damage in mixed species infections; whereas mixed parasite infections often have interactive negative effect; (4) Usually have mechanisms to reduce or eliminate multiple infections; whereas multiple infections are common features of parasite systems; (5) also show reduced frequencies of mixed species infections; whereas such infections are common among parasite species; (6) are often taxonomically closely related to their hosts; whereas parasites rarely are and predators vary in this respect; (7) are often less than one order to a few orders of magnitude smaller (by weight) than their hosts; whereas parasites are several to many orders of magnitude smaller; and predators range from similar-sized to several orders of magnitude larger than their prey; (8) show strong possitive size correlations with their hosts; whereas parasites show no size correlation with their hosts; and only relatively small predators are sometimes correlated by size with their prey; (9) frequently are killed or castrated by obligate hyperparasitoids and hypercastrators; whereas parasites rarely have hyperparasites; (10) sometimes act as facultative hyperparasitoids or hypercastrators; whereas parasites very rarely act so; (11) parasitoids and often castrators most commonly attack very young hosts; whereas parasitism and predation are very variable with respect to age of the host (prey); and (12) often cause precocious host development; whereas parasites rarely affect host maturation processes. Some insect parasitoids castrate their hosts before killing them; some crustaceans are ultimately consumer by their castrators. Parasitoid and castrator systems not involving insect or crustacean hosts are briefly reviewed. These trophic interactions may be more widespread than is generaly considered. Hydatid cyst disease is regarded as the only parasitoid affliction of humans.
2820941|Lathyrism encompases two entities. The first, neurolathyrism, occurs in a variety of animals, including man, after the consumption of several Lathyrus species. Three distinct neurolathyrogens have been isolated thus far from these plants. Clinical manifestations are marked by spastic paraplegia, and degenerative pathological changes are noted in the spinal cord to account for this effect. The other type of lathryrism, observed mainly in rats and turkeys, and not in man, is called osteolathyrism. This consists of kyphoscoliosis of the spine and curvatures of the long bones. Aortic aneyrysms are also observed in these animals, and this effect has been termed angiolathyrism is usually seen in conjunction with osteolathyrism, and the vessel and bone effects have not been convincingly dissociated. Beta-aminopropionitrile, a toxic product of L. odoratus (sweet pea), has been identified as the usual inducer of this second type of lathyrism, although a variety of synthetic nitriles and other compounds have been noted to have similar effects. Extensive studies of osteolathyritic and angiolathyritic tissues have revealed unique histopathological and ultrastructural changes, as well as decreased connective tissue strength. Biochemical studies have revealed increased solubility of collagen and specific enzyme inhibition of iysyl oxidase at the first slep of cross-link formation in elastin and collagen. These effects perhaps partly account for the observed curvatures of long bones, decreased tensile strength of connective tissues, adn aortic aneurysm and rupture in osteolathyrism and angiolathyrism. Teratogenic effects of the osteolathyrogens include ectocardia and gastroschisis in midpregnancy, cleft palate somewhat later, and aneurysms and kyphoscoliosis still later. These effects depend on the dose, agent, and time of administration, and may be directly related to the biochemical lesion.
2822820|Admissable game-theory models of evolution must be restricted to the class of "existential games" in which there is no way of using the winnings ("payoff") for any purpose other than continuing the game for as long as possible. The optimal strategy in such a game is to minimize the stakes played. Organisms and populations seem to be organized consistently with this strategy. The evolution of this organization does not involve group selection or any other deviation from accepted evolutionary theory. The implication of analyzing evolution as an existential game is to deny the idea of evolutionary momentum and to emphasize that adaptedness must always be defined in an explicit environmental context. It is asserted that adaptive responses will have a particular temporal relation to environmental perturbations. This assertion is a predictive statement about evolution-unlike the retrospective assertions that usually emerge from evolutionary analyses.
2822822|The origins of the blue-green algae of hot springs are uncertain, but the snails and flies that eat the algae, and the mites parasitic on the flies, seem to have evolved from species that lived in water-margin habitats. The wet shores of water margins are regularly warmed up to 40
2822821|Correlations of social structure, life-history patterns, and ecology among the seventeen species of grouse exemplify some general patterns in the evolution of mating systems among higher vertebrates. The species of grouse differ in the aggregation of displaying males, the permanence of heterosexual affiliations, the contributions of males to parental care, and the breeding sex ratio. Promiscous species (no durable heterosexual affiliation) are probably all polynous (the breeding sex ratio less than unity), but fall into two groups depending on whether the displaying males congregate at leks or disperse relatively evenly. In all of these promiscuous, polygymous species and in three monogramous species, the female cares for the young; dual parental care appears only in one monogamous species. During their first year, the males of polynous species do not mate or mate much less frequently, although females normally breed at one year of age, a situation termed sexual bimaturism. At least among birds and mammals, polygyny is normally associated with sexual bimaturism. Sexual bimaturism and polygyny among grouse correlated well both with large overall size, as indicated by female weight, and with greater sexual dimorphism in weight. These correlations also recur in other vertebrate families. Among the promiscuous grouse, the dispersion patterns of displaying males probably relate to the differences in predation pressures in open and forested habitats. In contrast with some other avian families, differences in social structure among grouse have little relationship to major differences in diet. Single parental care is not a sufficient condition for the evolution of polygyny among grouse. The association of sexual bimaturism with polygyny requires, in addition, an explanation of the adaptive advantages of deferred reproduction among males. Postponed reproduction by males will reduce the spread of their genes in a population unless compensated by a sufficient gain in early survival or increased fecundity later. Calculations of rates of reproductive increase for hypothetical lineages of males indicate that these compensating conditions can plausibly explain the evolution of delayed reproduction among male grouse. Theoretical considerations further suggest that larger size could favor the evolution of deferred reproduction, especially in males, and thus could contribute to the evolution of sexual bimaturism and polygyny in the larger species of grouse. Ecological circumstances, including the details of food dispersion, could thus influence the evolution of mating systems indirectly, through effects on the evolution of body sizes. As polygyny among higher vertebrates is normally associated with sexual bimaturism and is incompatible with full dual parental care, polygyny should evolve under ecological conditions in which the adaptive advantages of sexual bimaturism otuweigh those of dual parental care.
2831545|Gene flow between different reproductive such as bacterial plasmids and chromosomes presents unusual problems for evolutionary analysis. Far more than in eukaryotes, reproductive advantages at several levels of selection-genes, transposons, plasmids, cells, and clones-must be considered simultaneously to understand plasmid evolution. No level consistently prevails in conflict situations, and some reproductive units carry genes that restrain their own reproduction or survival, apparently to enhance the reproduction or survival of the higher-level reproductive units that carry them. Despite gene flow between plasmids and chromosomes, genes for certain functions show strong tendencies to occur on plasmids while others consistently occur on chromosomes. Functions generally associated with plasmids are diverse, but all are useful only in locally restricted contexts; it is argued that the selective consequences of the greater horizontal (within generation) transmission of plasmids are responsible for this pattern. The tendency for prokaryote transposons, which are also horizontally mobile, to carry genes similar to those commonly on plasmids supports this argument. The apparent trends in eukaryote plasmids and transposons to lack these same characters also accords with predictions of the local adaptation hypothesis, because genes on these genetic units are generally no more horizontally mobile than chromosomal genes. There are theoretical reasons to expect that plasmid genes tend to evolve more rapidly than chromosonal genes.
2831546|Seasonal delayed implantation has been described in 47 mammalian species in ten families, and has evolved independently at least 17 times. After reviewing earlier explanations for the phenomenon I present a hypothesis to explain the evolution of seasonal delay. I have assumed that females can increase their fitness by chossing their mates. Consequently, mating should take place during that time of year when the possibilities for female choice or male competition are greates. Time of birth is determined by ecological factors promoting survivals of the young, thereby setting certain constraints on the scheduling of the mating season. In certain situations, however, the possibilities for female choice or male competition can be increased by mating earlier; delay will increase female female fitness, and will thereby evolve. The hypothesis has been applied to all cases of seasonal delayed implantation.
2831547|We develop as a scientific research program (sensu Lakatos, 1978) the essential assumptions used in applying optimization techniques to the study of adaptation. The assumptions and hypotheses of the research program are of two kinds: (1) hard core and (2) strategic. Any prediction is derived from a conjuction of both hard-core and strategic hypothesis. The hard-core hypotheses define evolution as the change in the frequencies of strategies (rather than, for example, alleles or genotypes). Consequently, fitness is a property of strategies rather than genetic entities or individuals. Strategic hypotheses describe how a strategy's fitness depends on various inputs (e.g., mating success and energetic intake), and on how the feasible set of inputs to fitness is constrained. Strategies are described as being supervenient (sensu Rosenberg, 1985) on genotypes because while a given genotype specifies a strategy, a given strategy does not specify any finite set of genotypes. The supervenience of strategies lends credence to functional explanations of the occurrence of strategies. In the Optimization Research Program the function of a strategy is functional only in that it influences the per-capita growth rate of the strategy. A refuted prediction leads to modifying the strategic hypotheses rather that the hard-core ones. In a progressive research program, the new, modified hypotheses avoid being characterized as ad hoc by virtue of the fact that they can generate new testable predictions. Lakatos proposed that science progresses through a competition between different research programs as defined by their hard cores. We suggest that alternative hard cores might include the assumption of studies in quantitave genetics to the effect that genetics generally constrain adaptation at an evolutionarily stable equilibrium.
2831793|For many animals, the best defense against harsh environmental conditions is an escape to a hypometabolic or dormant state. Facultative metabolic rate depression is the common adaptive strategy of anaerobiosis, hibernation, and estivation, as well as a number of other arrested states. By reducing metabolic rate by a factor ranging from 5 to 100 fold or more, animals gain a comparable extension of survival time that can support months or even years of dormancy. The present review focuses on the molecular control mechanisms that regulate and coordinate cellular metabolism for the transition into dormancy. These include reversible control over the activity state of enzymes via protein phosphorylation or dephosphorylation reactions, pathway regulation via the association or dissociation of particle-bound enzyme complexes, and fructose-2, 6-bisphosphate regulation of the use of carbohydrate reserves for biosynthetic purposes. These mechanisms, their interactions, and the regulatory signals (e.g., second messenger molecules, pH) that coordinate them form a common molecular basis for metabolic depression in anoxia-tolerant vertebrates (goldfish, turtles) and invertebrates (marine molluscs), hibernation in small mammals, and estivation in land snails and terrestrial toads.
2831794|The understanding of sex determination is a fundamental goal in the study of eukaryotic developmental genetics. The mechanisms governing the generation of sexual dimorphism have been well characterized in Drosophila because of its amenability to both genetic manipulation and the application of the techniquies of modern molecular genetics. By using classical genetics to search for sex-transforming mutations and by analysing their phenotypes and how they interact, a picture has emerged involving a cascade of regulatory genes. The primary sex determining signal-the ratio of the number of X chromosomes to the number of sets of autosomes-sets this cascade into motion. Genetic evidence has suggested that the intervening genes in this pathway are active in females but not in males, whereas the final gene has active but opposing roles in the two sexes. This bifunctional locus is responsible for the repression of female differentiation genes in males and male differentiation genes in females. The cloning of the key genes of the regulatory cascade and the study of their transcription patterns have revealed that their different functional states in the two sexes do not result from control at the transcriptional level, as might have been expected. Instead, common primary transcripts are produced in male and female flies; these are then differentially spliced to encode sex-specific gene products. In this paper we focus on the contributions of molecular genetics to the understanding of sex determination. sufficient background is included for the reader to see how the models of the Drosophila sex determination system were first developed. We then show how the application of new technology has complemented the genetic approach and refined our understanding of the system. Current intensive research in this area should lead within the next few years to definitive knowledge at the molecular level of the cascade of differential splicing of regulatory genes, and how this hierarchy ultimately gives rise to the appropriate sex-specific patterns of structural gene expression that underlie sexual dimorphism.
2832368|Several features of the evolution of eyes and photoreceptors are examined in an effort to explore the relative roles of adaptation and historical and developmental constraints. Optical design shows clear evidence of adaptation, which is some respects approaches optima predictable from physics. The primate fovea, on the other hand, illustrates how adaptation can be channeled by developmental heritage. The primary structure of opsins reveal multiple evolutionary lineages within both Drosophila and humans. The pigments of vertebrate rods comprise a subset of opsins whose evolutionary relationships map onto the phylogeny of the parent species. The evolutionary reasons for why most rod pigments absord maximally at 500  10 nm are obscure, as there is no convincing explanation based on adaptation alone. Rods are appropriately distinguished from cones on the basis of which opsin gene is expressed. This criterion is likely to be in conflict with other difinitions in phyletic lines (e.g., geckos, snakes) that have long diurnal of noctural histories accompanied by loss of one or more opsin genes, followed by a secondary adaptation to life in a different photic environment. Color vision-a generalizable perception associated with the spectral composition of light-is usefully distinguished from wavelength-specific behaviors. The latter are also based on multiple visual pigments and more that one spectral class of receptors but cannot be altered by learning. The distinction is particularly forceful in bees, which exhibit both kinds of behavior. The evolution of primate color vision has been shaped by historical factors involving an extensive period of early mammalian nocturnality. Birds, by contrast, have more elaborate cones and a richer set of visual pigments. Avian color space can be represented in a tetrahedron.
2832369|Inducible defenses are responses activated through a previous encounter with a consumer or competitor that confer some degree of resistance to subsequent attacks. While the importance of inducible resistance has long been known in host-parasite interactions, it is only recently that its importance has emerged in other natural systems. Althought the structural defenses produced by invertebrates to their competitors and predators are by no means the same as an immune response triggered by parasites, these responses all share the properties of (1) specificity, (2) amplification and (3) memory. This review discusses the following ecological consequences and evolutionary causes of inducible defenses: (1) Inducible defenses render historical factors important in biological interactions and can affect the probability of individual survival and growth, as well as affect population dynamics of consumers in some circumstances. (2) Although the benefits of inducible defenses are often balanced by fitness costs, including reduced growth, reproductive output and survivorship, the role of costs and benefits in the evolution of inducible defenses is by no means clear. A more integrated approach would involve a multivariate analysis of the role of natural selection on the inducible characters of interest, their norms of reaction and correlated fitness characters. (3) The disproporcionate representation of inducible, morphological defenses among clonal organisms may be due to both a higher rate of origination and enhanced selection to maintain these defenses in clonal taxa. (4) Inducible defenses should be most common when reliable cues are available, attacks by biological agents are unpredictable, and the fitness gains of defenses are balanced by the costs. An integrated approach to studying inducible defenses would thus combine mechanistic estimates of costs, population-level estimates of defense effectiveness, and genetic estimates of correlations between fitness and inducible characters. This will allow us to estimate rates of evolution in these phenotypically plastic threshold characters.
10.1086/529562|The statistical technique of analysis of variance is often used by biologists as a measure of the relative strength or importance of causal factors. I argue that it is a tool ill-suited to this purpose, on several grounds. I suggest a superior alternative and outline its implications. I finish with a diagnosis of the source of erroran unwitting inheritance of bad philosophy that now requires the remedy of better philosophy.
10.1086/529558|Science and philosophy have a very long history, dating back at least to the 16th and 17th centuries, when the first scientist-philosophers, such as Bacon, Galilei, and Newton, were beginning the process of turning natural philosophy into science. Contemporary relationships between the two fields are still to some extent marked by the distrust that maintains the divide between the so-called two cultures. An increasing number of philosophers, however, are making conceptual contributions to sciences ranging from quantum mechanics to evolutionary biology, and a few scientists are conducting research relevant to classically philosophical fields of inquiry, such as consciousness and moral decision-making. This article will introduce readers to the borderlands between science and philosophy, beginning with a brief description of what philosophy of science is about, and including a discussion of how the two disciplines can fruitfully interact not only at the level of scholarship, but also when it comes to controversies surrounding public understanding of science.
10.1086/529561|We argue that philosophical and historical research can constitute a Biohumanities that deepens our understanding of biology itself, engages in constructive science criticism, helps formulate new visions of biology, and facilitates critical science communication. We illustrate these ideas with two recent experimental philosophy studies of the concept of the gene and of the concept of innateness conducted by ourselves and collaborators. We conclude that the complex and often troubled relations between science and society are critical to both parties, and argue that the philosophy and history of science can help to make this relationship work.
10.1086/529564|This paper focuses on abstraction as a mode of reasoning that facilitates a productive relationship between philosophy and science. Using examples from evolutionary developmental biology, I argue that there are two areas where abstraction can be relevant to science: reasoning explication and problem clarification. The value of abstraction is characterized in terms of methodology (modeling or data gathering) and epistemology (explanatory evaluation or data interpretation).
10.1086/529560|According to one traditional view, empirical science is necessarily preceded by philosophical analysis. Yet the relevance of philosophy is often doubted by those engaged in empirical sciences. I argue that these doubts can be substantiated by two theoretical problems that the traditional conception of philosophy is bound to face. First, there is a strong normative etiology to philosophical problems, theories, and notions that is difficult to reconcile with descriptive empirical study. Second, conceptual analysis (a role that is typically assigned to philosophy) seems to lose its object of study if it is granted that terms do not have purely conceptual meanings detached from their actual use in empirical sciences. These problems are particularly acute to the current naturalistic philosophy of science. I suggest a more concrete integration of philosophy and the sciences as a possible way of making philosophy of science have more impact.
10.1086/529559|There is a tension between science and philosophy, but this tension need not engender enmity or derision. Scientists and philosophers can work together, and we argue that working together is beneficial to both, even if it is sometimes uncomfortable. We offer examples of how philosophy can autonomously and effectively inform scientific practice. Science and philosophy share certain methodological concerns and practices; therefore, scientists who disregard philosophy are vulnerable to critical conceptual mistakes. If our arguments are correct, and if it can also be shown that science informs philosophy, then, while it is possible for both disciplines to operate autonomously, each should welcome the checks and balances that each provides for one another in the investigation and explanation of reality.
10.1086/529563|Ecology plays an important role in society, informing policy and management decisions across a variety of issues. As such, regularities in processes would indicate higher levels of predictive outcomes and would reduce the amount of research required for specific issues that policy makers need addressed. Scientific laws are considered the pinnacle of success and usefulness in addressing regularities or universal truths. Ecology studies complex interactions of individuals with unique behaviors, making the identification of laws problematic. Two equations, Malthusian growth and the logistic equation, continue to receive attention and are frequently cited as exemplar laws in ecology. However, an understanding of scientific laws shows that neither are good candidates for law status. In this paper, I will discuss why ecology is not well structured for scientific laws, as they are currently understood. Finally, I will consider alternative proposals for the role of laws in ecology and alternate forms of laws that may be applicable.
10.1086/529565|Ethics, a branch of philosophy, has a place in the regulatory framework of human subjects research. Sometimes, however, ethical concepts and arguments play a more central role in scientific activity. This can happen, for example, when violations of research norms are also ethical violations. In such a situation, ethical arguments can be marshaled to improve the quality of the scientific research. I explore two different examples in which philosophers and scientists have used ethical arguments to plead for epistemological improvements in the conduct of research. The first example deals with research dishonesty in pharmaceutical development. The second example is concerned with neuropsychological research using fMRI technology.
QRB830401|The nature of the biological relationships between cancers and allergies has intrigued researchers and health care providers for five decades. Three hypotheses have been proposed: antigenic stimulation predicts positive associations between cancers and allergies (i.e., allergy sufferers are more likely to get cancer), whereas immunosurveillance and prophylaxis predict inverse associations (i.e., allergy sufferers are less likely to get cancer). Immunosurveillance predicts inverse associations for cancers of all tissues and organ systems, and prophylaxis predicts inverse associations specifically for cancers of tissues and organ systems that interface with the external environment. To comparatively evaluate these hypotheses, we comprehensively reviewed the literature on cancer and allergies. We located 148 papers published from 1955 through 2006 that reported results of 463 studies of relationships between patients' histories of 11 specific allergies and cancers of 19 tissues and organ systems, and 183 studies of patients' histories of multiple allergies in relation to various types/sites of cancers. Analyses of these studies revealed that (1) frequencies of positive, inverse, and null allergy-cancer associations differed considerably among cancers of different tissues and organ systems; (2) more than twice as many studies reported inverse allergy-cancer associations as reported positive associations; (3) inverse associations were particularly common for cancers of the mouth and throat, brain glia, colon and rectum, pancreas, skin, and cervix but (4) particularly rare for cancers of the breast, prostate, and brain meninges, and for myeloma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and myelocytic leukemia; (5) lung cancer was positively associated with asthma but inversely associated with other allergies; (6) inverse associations with allergies were more than twice as common for cancers of nine tissues and organ systems that interface with the external environment compared to cancers of nine tissues and organ systems that do not interface with the external environment; and (7) eczema, hives, and allergies to animal dander and food were most frequently inversely associated with cancers of tissues that interface with the external environment. Taken together, these results are more consistent with the prophylaxis hypothesis than the two alternatives. IgE is a widespread and ancient immunoglobulin isotype in mammals, occurring among all known marsupials, monotremes, and eutherians. The IgE system and its associated allergy symptoms may serve a common protective function: the rapid expulsion of pathogens, dangerous natural toxins, and other carcinogenic antigens before they can trigger malignant neoplasia in exposed tissues.
QRB830402|The experience of animals in their natal or larval habitats has long been considered a potential source of variation in the habitat choices made later during dispersal. This idea has been of particular interest to evolutionary biologists because of the role such variation plays in the formation of host races and species. However, experiments that have tested for the effect of natal experience on habitat choice have produced widely variable results, leading to disagreement about the ecological importance of these effects. Here, I review the results of experiments within a broad range of animal taxa to assess the potential sources of variation in observed effects of natal experience on habitat choice. I provide a comprehensive summary of previous studies and demonstrate that when natal experience influences habitat choice, it nearly always increases the acceptance of the natal habitat type. Furthermore, I discuss mechanisms that allow natal experience to affect later habitat choice and describe how these mechanisms are influenced by various experimental design elements, such as the life stage at which early experience is provided to subjects. I conclude by reviewing the adaptive hypotheses for why animals might or might not respond to natal experience, and also how these hypotheses might explain interspecific differences in the importance of natal experience during habitat selection decisions. By understanding in what species, and in which contexts, experience influences habitat selection, we will be able to predict the ecological and evolutionary consequences of these effects more accurately.
10.1086/587826|Machine learning methods, a family of statistical techniques with origins in the field of artificial intelligence, are recognized as holding great promise for the advancement of understanding and prediction about ecological phenomena. These modeling techniques are flexible enough to handle complex problems with multiple interacting elements and typically outcompete traditional approaches (e.g., generalized linear models), making them ideal for modeling ecological systems. Despite their inherent advantages, a review of the literature reveals only a modest use of these approaches in ecology as compared to other disciplines. One potential explanation for this lack of interest is that machine learning techniques do not fall neatly into the class of statistical modeling approaches with which most ecologists are familiar. In this paper, we provide an introduction to three machine learning approaches that can be broadly used by ecologists: classification and regression trees, artificial neural networks, and evolutionary computation. For each approach, we provide a brief background to the methodology, give examples of its application in ecology, describe model development and implementation, discuss strengths and weaknesses, explore the availability of statistical software, and provide an illustrative example. Although the ecological application of machine learning approaches has increased, there remains considerable skepticism with respect to the role of these techniques in ecology. Our review encourages a greater understanding of machine learning approaches and promotes their future application and utilization, while also providing a basis from which ecologists can make informed decisions about whether to select or avoid these approaches in their future modeling endeavors.
10.1086/587825|The evolution of flapping flight in bats from an arboreal gliding ancestor appears on the surface to be a relatively simple transition. However, bat flight is a highly complex functional system from a morphological, physiological, and aerodynamic perspective, and the transition from a gliding precursor may involve functional discontinuities that represent evolutionary hurdles. In this review, I suggest a framework for a comprehensive treatment of the evolution of complex functional systems that emphasizes a mechanistic understanding of the initial state, the final state, and the proposed transitional states. In this case, bats represent the final state and extant mammalian gliders are used as a model for the initial state. To explore possible transitional states, I propose a set of criteria for evaluating hypotheses about the evolution of flight in vertebrates and suggest methods by which we can advance our understanding of the transition from gliding to flapping flight. Although it is impossible ever to know with certainty the sequence of events leading to flapping flight, the field of possibilities can be narrowed to those that maintain the functional continuity of the wing and result in improved aerodynamic performance across this transition. The fundamental differences between gliding and flapping flight should not necessarily be seen as evidence that this transition could not occur; rather, these differences point out compelling aspects of the aerodynamics of animal wings that require further investigation.
10.1086/590510|Although sexual interactions between species (reproductive interference) have been reported from a wide range of animal taxa, their potential for determining species coexistence is often disregarded. Here, we review evidence from laboratory and field studies illustrating that heterospecific sexual interactions are frequently associated with fitness loss and can have severe ecological and evolutionary consequences. We define reproductive interference as any kind of interspecific interaction during the process of mate acquisition that adversely affects the fitness of at least one of the species involved and that is caused by incomplete species recognition. We distinguish seven types of reproductive interference: signal jamming, heterospecific rivalry, misdirected courtship, heterospecific mating attempts, erroneous female choice, heterospecific mating, and hybridization. We then discuss the sex-specific costs of these types and highlight two typical features of reproductive interference: density-dependence and asymmetry. Similar to competition, reproductive interference can lead to displacement of one species (sexual exclusion), spatial, temporal, or habitat segregation, changes in life history parameters, and reproductive character displacement. In many cases, patterns of coexistence might be shaped by reproductive interference rather than by resource competition, as the presence of a few heterospecifics might substantially decrease reproductive success. Therefore, interspecific sexual interactions should receive more attention in ecological research. Reproductive interference has mainly been discussed in the context of invasive species or hybrid zones, whereas its influence on naturally-occurring sympatric species pairs has rarely been addressed. To improve our knowledge of the ecological significance of reproductive interference, findings from laboratory experiments should be validated in the field. Future studies should also focus on ecological mechanisms, such as temporal, spatial, or habitat partitioning, that might enable sexually interacting species to coexist. Reproductive interference also has implications for the management of endangered species, which can be threatened by sexual interactions with invasive or common species. Studies of reproductive interference might even provide new insights for biological pest control.
10.1086/590509|George Williams indicated that he would not expect senescence to evolve in organisms that lack a distinction between germ line and soma.
QRB4404|Interactions between individual consumer and resource organisms can be modified by neighbors, e.g., when herbivory depends on the identity or diversity of neighboring plants. Effects of neighbors on consumer-resource interactions (associational effects) occur in many systems, including plant-herbivore interactions, predator-prey interactions (mimicry), and plant-pollinator interactions. Unfortunately, we know little about how ecologically or evolutionarily important these effects are because we lack appropriate models and data to determine how neighbor effects on individuals contribute to net interactions at population and community levels. Here we supply a general definition of associational effects, review relevant theory, and suggest strategies for future theoretical and empirical work. We find that mathematical models from a variety of fields suggest that individual-level associational effects will influence population and community dynamics when associational effects create local frequency dependence. However, there is little data on how local frequency dependence in associational effects is generated, or on the form or spatial scale of that frequency dependence. Similarly, existing theory lacks consideration of nonlinear and spatially explicit frequency dependence. We outline an experimental approach for producing data that can be related to models to advance our understanding of how associational effects contribute to population and community processes.
QRB4651|On the basis that Darwin's theory of evolution encompasses two logically independent processes (common descent and natural selection), the only figure in
QRB4728|For almost 40 years, studies of whole-organism performance have formed a cornerstone of evolutionary physiology. Although its utility as a heuristic guide is beyond question, and we have learned much about morphological evolution from its application, the ecomorphological paradigm has frequently been applied to performance evolution in ways that range from unsatisfactory to inappropriate. More importantly, the standard ecomorphological paradigm does not account for tradeoffs among performance and other traits, nor between performance traits that are mediated by resource allocation. A revised paradigm that includes such tradeoffs, and the possible ways that performance and fitness-enhancing traits might affect each other, could potentially revivify the study of phenotypic evolution and make important inroads into understanding the relationships between morphology and performance and between performance and Darwinian fitness. We describe such a paradigm, and discuss the various ways that performance and key life-history traits might interact with and affect each other. We emphasize both the proximate mechanisms potentially linking such traits, and the likely ultimate factors driving those linkages, as well as the evolutionary implications for the overall, multivariate phenotype. Finally, we highlight several research directions that will shed light on the evolution and ecology of whole-organism performance and related life-history traits.
QRB4274|Beginning with Darwin, some have argued that predation on other vertebrates dates to the earliest stages of hominid evolution, and can explain many uniquely human anatomical and behavioral characters. Other recent workers have focused instead on scavenging, or particular plant foods. Foraging theory suggests that inclusion of any food is influenced by its profitability and distribution within the consumers habitat. The morphology and likely cognitive abilities of
QRB4638|A unified system of bioenergetic parameters that describe thermal regulation and energy metabolism in many passerine and non-passerine species has been developed. These parameters have been analyzed as functions of ambient temperature, and bioenergetic models for various species have been developed. The level of maximum food energy or maximal existence metabolism (MPE) is 1.3 times higher in passerines than in non-passerines, which is consistent with the ratio of their basal metabolic rates (BMR). The optimal ambient temperature for maximizing productive processes (e.g., reproduction, molting) is lower for passerines than for non-passerines, which allows passerines to have higher production rates at moderate ambient temperatures. This difference in the optimal ambient temperature may explain the variation in bioenergetic parameters along latitudinal gradients, such as the well-known ecological rule of clutch size (or mass) increase in the more northerly passerine birds. The increased potential for productive energy output in the north may also allow birds to molt faster there. This phenomenon allows passerine birds to occupy a habitat that fluctuates widely in ambient temperature compared with non-passerine birds of similar size. Passerines have a more effective system for maintaining heat balance at both high and low temperatures. The high metabolism and small body sizes of passerines are consistent with omnivore development and with ecological plasticity. Among large passerines, the unfavorable ratio of MPE to BMR should decrease the energy that is available for productive processes. This consequence limits both the reproductive output and the development of long migration (particularly in
QRB4559|Late Pleistocene extinctions occurred globally over a period of about 50,000 years, primarily affecting mammals of  44 kg body mass (i.e., megafauna) first in Australia, continuing in Eurasia and, finally, in the Americas. Polarized debate about the cause(s) of the extinctions centers on the role of climate change and anthropogenic factors (especially hunting). Since the late 1960s, investigators have developed mathematical models to simulate the ecological interactions that might have contributed to the extinctions. Here, we provide an overview of the various methodologies used and conclusions reached in the modeling literature, addressing both the strengths and weaknesses of modeling as an explanatory tool. Although late Pleistocene extinction models now provide a solid foundation for viable future work, we conclude, first, that single models offer less compelling support for their respective explanatory hypotheses than many realize; second, that disparities in methodology (both in terms of model parameterization and design) prevent meaningful comparison between models and, more generally, progress from model to model in increasing our understanding of these extinctions; and third, that recent models have been presented and possibly developed without sufficient regard for the transparency of design that facilitates scientific progress.
QRB4626|Several unresolved issues, paradoxes, and information voids characterize the field of evolution of aging. The recent discovery of aging-like phenomenon in
QRB4707|Many models of evolution calculate the rate of evolution by multiplying the rate at which new mutations originate within a population by a probability of fixation. Here we review the historical origins, contemporary applications, and evolutionary implications of these origin-fixation models, which are widely used in evolutionary genetics, molecular evolution, and phylogenetics. Origin-fixation models were first introduced in 1969, in association with an emerging view of molecular evolution. Early origin-fixation models were used to calculate an instantaneous rate of evolution across a large number of independently evolving loci; in the 1980s and 1990s, a second wave of origin-fixation models emerged to address a sequence of fixation events at a single locus. Although origin-fixation models have been applied to a broad array of problems in contemporary evolutionary research, their rise in popularity has not been accompanied by an increased appreciation of their restrictive assumptions or their distinctive implications. We argue that origin-fixation models constitute a coherent theory of mutation-limited evolution that contrasts sharply with theories of evolution that rely on the presence of standing genetic variation. A major unsolved question in evolutionary biology is the degree to which these models provide an accurate approximation of evolution in natural populations.
2827148|Trivers and Hare (1976) predicted that the degree of genetic relatedness between hymenopteran workers and their brood is a fundamental factor in influencing the amount of resource allocated to the sexes. An analysis of a wide body of literature on ants (Family: Formicidae) strongly supports this genetic relatedness hypothesis (GRH). Their predictions on the differences in investment between monogynous, polygynous, slavemaking, and parasitic colonies are supported qualitatively and quantitatively both across and within species. Another explanation of female bias, local mate competition (LMC) (e.g., Alexander and Sherman, 1977), is found to be inconsistent with the data. The ratio of investment in species with non-conspecific brood care, most colonies producing either extremely male or female biased broods, as well as the suggestion that male ants may be highly limited in the number of females they can fertilize, are incompatible with LMC predictions. A limitation in the number of matings on the part of an individual male may mean that mating strategies in ant sexes could be quite different from those in most other species. The bimodal sexual investment pattern appears to be a mixed "evolutionary stable strategy and state" and seems proximately determined by the amount of food resources. Abundance favors females, scarcity favors males. Further utilization of game theory approaches may be quite useful in explaining both individual colony and population-level sexual investment values.
2827149|The intensity of competition is a physiological concept, related directly to the well-being of individual organisms but only indirectly and conditionally to their fitness, and even more indirectly to the evolution of populations and the structure of communities. The importance of competition is primarily an ecological and evolutionary concept, related directly to the ecology and fitness of individuals but only indirectly to their physiological states. The intensity of competition is not necessarily correlated with the intensities of predation, disturbance, abiotic stress, or other ecological processes. The importance of competition is necessarily relative to the importances of other processes. Intensity refers primarily to the processes of present competition, whereas importance refers primarily to the products of past competition. The distinction between the intensity and the importance of competition clarifies two long-standing ecological debates. Some ecologists have proposed that competition is greater in more stressful habitats, others the opposite, and still others that no such relationship exists. Evidence cited to refute or support these positions often confuses intensity and importance. Distinguishing between them focuses questions more sharply and indicates what sorts of new evidence should be sought. The more widely known debate over the prevalence of competition as an agent of community structure is a debate about the importance of competition, but evidence about the intensity of competition has often been used by both sides. We argue that intensity and importance need not be correlated, and so measurements of the intensity of competition are not directly relevant to this debate. This distinction also generates testable hypotheses and suggests directions for research. For example, we hypothesize that competition can be unimportant even if it is very intense: no such hypothesis is possible unless importance is distinguished from intensity. We discuss the application of these ideas to methods and theories used to study competition, ecological communities, and the evolution of competitive ability. We advocate a research approach that presumes multiple, interacting causes, including competition, affecting community structure, and we show how the distinction between intensity and importance helps to make this feasible.
2827745|The problems facing science education in general and biological education in particular in the twentieth century have been carefully scrutinized and delineated. The lack of response to published studies and reports is primarily due to the absence of a mechanism to activate change and to overcome the inertia of an educational bureaucracy in which teacher preparation, textbooks, examinations, and, indeed, all facets of the system are mutually reinforcing. Critical recommendations of the past are cited, culminating in the only national activist educational project ever undertaken in the United States-the curriculum development movement of the 1950s and 1960s. This movement is viewed from the 25-year personal involvement of the author, and its successes and failures are delineated. About every 20 years the public seems to become exercised about the status of public education, but until a mechanism exists to which the educational system is responsive, efforts at educational reform are largely local, ad hoc, and ephemeral. Education is a problem of national concern, but in the United States the tradition of local control causes national involvement to be viewed as a threat. The curriculum development movement was an enterprise that introduced a pattern of hybrid vigor into the system while, in a apparently contradictory fashion, local control has fostered both parochialism and stasis that have resulted in an uncoordinated patchwork of educational objectives and varying degrees of success in their achievement. The author urges a national coordination of educational goals and the implementation of an acceptable mechanism for inducing change within the present system.
2827744|Social dominance is usually viewed from the perspective of intragroup competition over access to limited resources. The present paper, while not denying the importance of such competition, discusses the dominance concept among monkeys and apes in the context of affiliative bonding, social tolerance, and the reconciliation of aggressive conflicts. Two basic proximate mechanisms are supposed to provide a link between dominance and interindividual affiliation, namely, formalization of the dominance relationship (i.e., unequivocal communication of status), and conditional reassurance (i.e., the linkage of friendly coexistence to formalization of the relationship). Ritualized submission is imposed upon losers of dominance struggles by winners; losers are offered a "choice" between continued hostility or a tolerant relationship with a clearly signalled difference in status. If these two social mechanisms are lacking, aggression is bound to have dispersive effects. In their presence, aggression becomes a well-integrated, even constructive component of social life. In some higher primates this process of integration has reached the stage where status differences are strongly attenuated. In these species, sharing and trading can take the place of overt competition. The views underlying this "reconciled hierarchy" model are only partly new, as is evident from a review of the ethological literature. Many points are illustrated with data on a large semi-captive colony of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), particularly data related to striving for status, reconciliation behavior, and general association patterns. These observations demonstrate that relationships among adult male chimpanzees cannot be described in terms of a dichotomy between affiliative and antagonistic tendencies. Male bonding in this species has not been achieved by an elimination of aggression, but by a set of powerful buffering mechanisms that mitigate its effects. Although female chimpanzees do exhibit a potential for bonding under noncompetitive conditions, they appear to lack the buffering mechanisms of the males.
2829083|Social conflict is defined operationally as occurring when the behavior of two (or more) individuals indicates that their motivational priorities are incompatible: they seek the same thing of different things, and both cannot be satisfied. Social dominance is defined as consistent winning at points of social conflict, regardless of the tactic used. Four problems generated by many current uses of the social dominance concept are critically reviewed here. (1) Dominance is sometimes equated with and is sometimes operationally defined as priority of access to resources. It is argued that dominance functions to resolve many kinds of social conflict, and not just those involving resources. (2) A tendency to describe all conflict resolution by using the dominance/subordination paradigm obstructs consideration of other relationships, specifically egalitarian ones. Egalitarian relationships are defined. (3) A Tendency to link dominance and aggression causes non-aggressive patterns of dominance(e.g., passive refusal to cooperate, manipulation) to be neglected. (4) When dominance is used as an intervening variable to define a dyadic relationship in many contexts, investigators may overlook important exceptions. Since costs and benefits of winning a given conflict are context-dependent, a dyad member may be dominant in one context but not in others (the "spheres-of-dominance" phenomenon). Social dominance can be based on aggresion (primary social dominance) or on leverate (secondary social dominance). Leverage is discussed and illustrated. Since social dominance is defined as consistent winning, regardless of what tactic is used, a smaller or weaker individual can sometimes be socially dominant to a larger or stronger one, often because of a leverage advantage. Both dominance/subordination and egalitarian relationships are phenotypes. Game theory can clarify the conditions under which particular phenotypes emerge; a model (Parker and Rubenstein, 1981) is presented, modified to account for leverage costs, that predicts the conditions under which various phenotypes should occur and when individuals with less resource-holding potential (RPH) should be socially equal or dominant to others with great RPH. Finally, the aggression of larger dyad members may be suppressed or modulated in some conflict contexts by means of affiliative social bonds (pair-bonds, parent-offspring bonds, or friendships).
2829082|Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis) is an arid-zone, perennial shrub which is being domesticated to exploit the liquid wax contained in the seed. The xeromorphic adaptations that allow jojoba to survive and reproduce in its arid habitat present special problems for its domestication. An accout of the natural history of jojoba introduces the specialized characteristics of the species. Details of the morphological and anatomical adaptations are then reviewed. The physiological adaptations of jojoba to temperature, water, and salt stresses in terms of water relations, growth and photosynthesis are extensively reviewed. The implications of these adaptations for survival in the wild and for domestication are discussed. The control of the reproductive cycle by temperature and water availability is also an adaptation to an arid habitat. The responses of flowering and seed growth to a range of environmental factors are considered, and the implications ofr domestication discussed. It is concluded that the extensive existing variability in the physiologycal responses to environmental factors will permit the selection of a range of jojoba cultivars.
2826772|Halophytes are plants adapted to live in a saline environment, be it seawater, a salt-water marsh, or a salt-desert; nearly all are angiosperms. The growth of dicotyledonous halophytes is frequently stimulated by salt, although that of most monocotyledonous halophytes is not. Survival requires osmotic adjustment, which is commonly achieved by using the ions present in the environment and which is associated with succulence in dicotyledons but generally not in monocotyledons. At the cellular level, survival depends on the ability of the plant to compartmentalize, in vacuoles, the ions used for osmotic adjustment, particularly sodium and chloride. A vital feature of the physiology of these plants is their ability to accumulate sufficient ions to maintain growth while avoiding either a water deficit or an excess of ions, either of which could prove toxic. The means by which relatively constant ion concentrations in the shoot are maintained are considered. The conclusion is drawn that ion uptake by the roots is not controlled by the shoots; rather, shoot growth is regulated by the supply of ions from the roots. The agricultural importance of halophytes in a world where most of the water is salty at any given moment is emphasized.
2826773|Parents will increase their fitness by varying the sex ratio of their progeny in response to differences in the costs and benefits of producing sons and daughters. Sex differences in energy requirements or viability during early growth, differences in the relative fitness of male and female offspring, and competition or cooperation between siblings or between siblings and parents might all be expected to affect the sex ratio. Although few trends have yet been shown to be consistent, growing numbers of studies have demonstrated significant variation in birth sex ratios in non-human mammals. These are commonly cited as evidence of adaptive manipulation of the sex ratio. However, several different mechanisms may affect the birth sex ratio, and not all of them are likely to be adaptive. Valid evidence that sex ratio trends are adaptive must be based either on the overall distribution of those trends or on cases in which the sex ratio can be shown to vary with the relative fitness of producing sons and daughters. The distribution of observed sex ratio trends does not conform closely to the predictions of any single adaptive theory. Some recent studies, however, indicate that, within species, the sex ratio varies with the costs or benefits of producing male or female offspring.
2819612|The phytochrome in dark-grown seedlings was found to be present entirely as P
2819615|Thermostability of plant cells is due to the resistance of their proteins to denaturation, resistance to injurious metabolic changes, reparatory capacity, and capacity to harden. Hardiness includes the stability of several functions and increases the resistance to several injurious factors. It varies with the tissue and stage of growth. The thermostability of the proteins is constant in higher plants but changes with temperature in algae. Frost-hardening increases resistance to several injurious factors, including heat. The denaturation theory of injury satisfactorily explains some of the data.
2819611|Early physiological experiments of the effects of light on seed germination, flowering, growth, and etiolation led to the characterization of the photomorphogenetic pigment. A spectrophotometric measurement based on the photoreversible nature of the pigment showed the presence of the pigment, named phytochrome, in dark-grown seedlings. Phytochrome was purified as a chromoprotein. The absorption spectra of the purified pigment confirm the early conclusions based on action spectra.
2819613|The investigation of the biochemical aspects of photomorphogenesis has revealed an early response in carbohydrate metabolism following a brief exposure of etiolated plant tissue to red radiant energy (660 ). An enhancement of starch utilization may be observed by microscopic examination of leaf sections, and chemical assay reveals increased degradation of both starch and sugars. Furthermore, reversal of these observed decreases in carbohydrate content, determined as changes in total soluble sugars and starch content in etiolated corn seedling leaf sections, may be induced by a short exposure to far-red energy (730 ) immediately after a red treatment. Correlated with these biochemical responses there occurs a strong photomorphogenic leaf expansion. Carbohydrate changes may be one of the initial manifestations of phytochrome-mediated morphological reactions.
2818210|Sympatric congeneric anurans exist together under systems of adjustment to coexistence of their populations, systems that reflect a past history of the populations under allopatry and that also reflect interspecific interactions under subsequent sympatry. Sympatric species may affect one another through mismating even when genetic interchange is barred by hybrid sterility or hybrid inviability. Several isolating mechanisms usually operate to restrict hybridization of any given pair of sympatric anurans, with difference in mating call usually of paramount importance. Some important parameters of the call (viz., frequency and pulse rate) are usually functions of body size, and hence differentiation in these attributes may be a secondary effect of adaptive differentiation in body size. Other parameters of the call appear to have been the subject of selection per se. Ecological isolating mechanisms may represent side-products of adaptation to different ways of life in allopatric populations. Postmating mechanisms of hybrid inviability or sterility reflect different developmental systems which are not necessarily the genetic systems involved in production of the phenotypic characters used in morphological classification. Examination of various allopatric and sympatric species pairs in the anurans indicates that, as known at present, there is no predictable sequence in which the various kinds of isolating mechanisms evolve. However, sympatric species always differ in mating call, and some allopatric populations have been shown to differ enough for the females to discriminate between the calls of their own and foreign males. In general, genetic incompatibility seems to be the last isolating mechanism to evolve. Some sympatric species are interfertile, and some allopatric species are intersterile. Greater differentiation of mating call in the overlap zone of species pairs than in non-overlap areas is taken as evidence for reinforcement of a difference in call through limited hybridization and selection against the hybridizers.
2818212|This review analyzes the various substances affecting leaf abscission, their possible mechanisms of action, and their relationship to the metabolism of senescent organs. Abscission is characterized by cell wall hydrolysis and separation of middle lamellae in an area known as the abscission zone. The pectic changes occurring in the separation area may be inhibited or stimulated by auxins, but the mechanism for these effects is unknown. The regulation of abscission appears to be by two systems, a restraint of abscission by auxin through a correlative action, and a provocation of abscission which may most likely be attributable to non-auxinic substances. Among these abscission stimulators are amino acids, ethylene gas, and apparently numerous other types of regulators yet to be identified.
2818211|Studies of calling songs and seasonal life histories of crickets and long-horned grasshoppers have revealed many species that were unrecognized on the basis of morphological studies. Once recognized, such cryptic species usually prove to have identifying morphological characters. Nearly one-fourth of the ensiferan species of eastern United States are cryptic, and high proportions of cryptic species have been found in other groups that have conspicuous, non-morphological, species recognition signals or that have been intensively studied. Similarly high proportions of cryptic species must exist in many groups which have not been intensively studied and in which cryptic species are difficult to detect. The existence of cryptic species demonstrates the lack of correlation between reproductive isolation and degree of morphological differentiation. Therefore the taxonomic treatment of morphologically similar, allopatric or allochronic populations must remain subjective and arbitrary until we have reliable criteria for predicting the evolutionary consequences of such populations becoming sympatric and synchronic.
2820312|Psychogenetics, the study of heritable factors in mental functioning, is just beginning to emerge as a well-defined discipline. Much of our information on genetic factors in human behavior, both normal and abnormal, has been derived from twin family studies. Such studies have been particularly fruitful with respect to schizophrenia. Although the precise etiology of this psychosis is still unknown, data pointing toward the operation of genic elements have been consistent as well as replicable. As for traits falling into the normal range of variation, extensive investigations have been carried out with respect to intellectual performance during the past century, and here, too, constantly accumulating evidence indicates that genetic factors strongly influence measurable intellectual functioning at all age levels, including the period of senescence. Thus, despite its popularity among psychologists, the concept of the human mind as a tabula rasa upon which the environment inscribes its diversity is no longer tenable.
2820313|Although there has long been an idea that heredity plays an important role in the determination of life span, this concept has been "more taken for granted than supported by exact scientific investigation." Since one cannot extrapolate directly from experimental organisms to man nor carry out studies of a similar nature in man, it is necessary to use the direct epidemiological approach, determining first of all whether the observed differences in mortality follow family patterns. Some of the very early, more recently published, and current family studies of life span are summarized and reviewed critically. The results of the genealogy studies, (including both large individual kinships, e.g. the Hyde family, Peirce family, etc., and the collections of genealogies, e.g. Foster's Peerage Burke's Landed Gentry, Society of Friends records, Finnish and Swedish noble and middle class families), as well as studies involving samples from special subgroups of the population (families of workingmen, nonagenarians, senescent twins, insurance applicants, etc.) appear to show various family patterns. However, the suggested positive relationships, as well as any lack of relationships, are all explicable by one bias or another involved in the selection, completeness, source, or validity of the data. The apparent explanation for the paucity of investigations of family patterns of causes of death probably resides in the fact that the same difficulties present in the longevity studies also apply to the investigation of causes of death. In addition, problems arise from the variability in diagnostic criteria and the interpretation of competing causes. Moreover, all except the current studies involve deaths occurring in the pre-antibiotic, even in the pre-public health, era. The influence of sanitary and nutritional factors and epidemic diseases in altering the life span, despite the biological potential, might be considerable. Therefore, although many data are available on family patterns of longevity and a few on causal relationships, any attempt to interpret the findings in terms of a current population is hardly feasible. In view of this situation, two studies of patterns of mortality and aging have been initiated at Johns Hopkins University. The major investigation is a Community-Based Population Study comparing the mortality experience of corresponding relatives of a sample of deaths which occured in Baltimore in 1960 and of living matched controls, in order to determine whether there are family patterns of mortality and, if so, their nature in respect to age at death and causes of death. The second and smaller investigation, designed to identify in living subjects possible indicators of family patterns of mortality, involves a special group of 500 living males who are participating in a longitudinal study of aging. Some preliminary findings of both the Community-Based Population Investigation and the Special Group Study are Presented. It is concluded that at present, despite all the recorded information and presumptive evidence, the problem of the genetic aspects of mortality and life span remains to be resolved. Large, collaborative projects both for retrospective family data analysis and for longitudinal follow-up of subjects are recommended for future study.
2820034|The toxicity of zinc compounds to aquatic animals is modified by several environmental factors, particularly the hardness of the dilution water, the dissolved oxygen concentration, and temperature. The resistance of aquatic animals to zinc poisoning varies with species. It is modified by acclimatization, and possibly by age, Survival time is inversely proportional to concentration of zinc. For these reasons concentrations reported as lethal have varied widely. The mode of toxic action of zinc is uncertain. At acutely toxic concentrations it probably kills fish by destroying gill tissues. At chronically toxic levels it may induce stress resulting in death. The action of zinc undoubtedly differs at different concentrations, it varies with life history, and it is non-specific.
2820035|Data available on the photosynthetic efficiency of forest trees are reviewed. Results from the different sources suggest that over a growing season a stand of trees has a relatively high photosynthetic efficiency in comparison to that of an agricultural crop. Three factors that possibly could cause a high over-all efficiency are suggested: (a) low efficiency of agricultural crops in the early part of the season until canopy closure, whereas the tree stands studied usually had complete canopy closure all season; (b) the available forest data are from areas with low light intensity, which tends to increase the efficiency of light utilization; (c) carbon dioxide becomes limiting for photosynthesis in stands of plants under full sunlight, but because of the physical structure of the plant communities, forest stands possibly have more carbon dioxide available to them than do agricultural crop.
2820036|The effect of parental age on the characteristics of the offspring is considered. In man the overall incidence of congenital abnormalities increases with maternal age, although the first born may be slightly more prone to certain abnormalities than would be expected. In the mouse and guinea pig the incidence of certain abnormalities decreases with maternal age. An explanation is offered for the decrease. In several organisms, it is likely that minimum developmental variability occurs for offspring from mothers of intermediate age, which is usually the time of greatest reproductive capacity. Recombination fractions vary with maternal age in Drosophila melanogaster, and with maternal and paternal ages in the mouse. In man, non-disjunction increases with maternal age. In man some dominant mutations increase with parental age; furthermore, paternal age is an important factor controlling the secondary sex ratio. Non-genic (cytoplasmic) factors can accelerate or decelerate aging in some organisms, e.g. rotifers. It is considered that the development of this approach will be important in aging research. Some plant evidence is briefly mentioned.
2819517|This review discusses certain peculiarities of the effects of radiation on living organisms, the effect of irradiation on cells, tissues, and organs, and the effects of total and local irradiation on the development of amphibians. The effects of irradiation on amphibians are compared with the effects of irradiation on higher forms (mammals, including man) and lower forms (invertebrates, microorganisms, and plants), especially by considering general problems such as formation of giant cells, phagocytosis and regression, sensitivity of cells, tissues, and organisms, and the problem of radio-stimulation. The influence of irradiation on sex cells, fertilization, embryonic development, larval development, and adult amphybians is considered.
2819340|Genetic tumors occurring in interspecific hybrids of certain plant genera, especially Nicotiana, are reviewed. Cytogenetic, physiological, and radiation studies on these tumors are discussed in relation to current hypotheses regarding mechanisms responsible for tumor initiation and development.
2819341|As currently conceived, the biological effects of temperature extremes on terrestrial organisms are tacitly limited to chiefly the survival of individual adults, or again individually, destruction of young. A review of the literature pertaining to high temperatures relative to gametogenesis indicates the existence of a third possibility that involves multigeneration reproductive success or failure and thus operates at the populational rather than the individual level. Investigations of the reproductive consequences of above normal temperatures and the involvement of gametogenesis have been wholly random in their selection. Both plants and animals appear to be in some way subject to these heat effects. Excessively high but individually non-lethal temperatures may induce total aspermia or a hightened mutation rate. Apparently there are no observations that indicate a similar susceptibility in female gamete formation. Heat effects inflicted during male gametogenesis in the scrotal mammals furnish indubitable evidence that even somatically optimum temperatures will produce sterility. Somewhat similar susceptibility appears to occur in plants and animals other than the scrotal mammals. High but nonsterilizing heat may induce mutation rates up to a Q
2819690|The classical view of human sexuality holds that man is invested with a particular sex within which he, as an individual, develops. Recent attempts to alter this conception and to explain psychosexual maturation as developing from a neutral rather than a sexual base are here reviewed and criticized. Essentially, a psychosexual neutrality-at-birth theory holds that male and female patterns of sexual orientation and behavior are attributable exclusively to learning or imprinting phenomena. This theory is derived from clinical observations of individuals manifesting morphological sexual incongruities (hermaphrodites, pseudohermaphrodites, etc.). This article defends the view of inherent somatic sexuality organizing man's psychosexual development by: (a) reviewing man's place on the evolutionary continuum, and the broad base of sexual behavior within this discussion must be considered; (b) presenting normative, clinical and anthropological evidence inferring a particular sexual predilection birth; (c) showing genetic, hormonal, and neural indications for sexual predisposition; (d) refuting the extend of imprinting involved in humans; and (e) showing the futility of separating "nurture" from "nature" in reference to the role of learning and acquisition of a gender role.
2819689|Growth in tissues and organs can be stimulated by either partial ablation or increased demands for physiological activity. Both causes appear to operate via identical pathways whereby the mounting requirements for extra functional output stimulate DNA replication and concomitantly promote specific protein synthesis. When certain representative organs are reduced in mass to varying extents, the time of onset and maximum response coincide within wide rangers of injury, but the magnitudes and durations of the responses are directly proportional to the intensities of the stimuli.
2818919|Nematodes are known to be unique among animals both with respect to the structure of their somatic muscle cells and to the spatial relations these cells have with the nervous system. It has been suggested that the nematode neuromuscular junction might also be unique. Although a century of investigation of the anatomy and physiology of round worms had shed little light on the question, recent work in electronmicroscopy and electrophysiology indicates that nematode neuromuscular junctions are not fundamentally different, either structurally or functionally, from those of other animals.
2818920|This new approach to immunology engenders a unified conception of embryogenesis, cellular differentiation, mitotic- and growth-control, carcinogenesis, autoimmunity, and aging. The primary and intrinsic function of the complex lymphoid system is postulated to be the central regulation of the growth and size of target tissues throughout the body. Where tissues are normally freely infiltrated by small lymphocytes, these cells, bearing specific "mitotic control proteins" (MCPs), constitute the effectors of symmetrical mitosis; where target tissues are located behind a blood-tissue barrier, specific humoral MCPs (possibly a
2825494|An attempt has been made to examine the exponential rate of increase of the great discoveries, the "milestones," in the rise of biology from the beginning of the seventeenth century, and particularly in the rise to genetics from the beginning of the twentieth century. The biological sciences in general, during the three centuries named, exhibit a doubling of the number of great discoveries in each fifty years. Genetics, in the twentieth century, has risen much faster. Its doubling time for the most significant discoveries has been about twenty-tow and a half years. Either of these rates is of course far slower than the exponential rise in the total output of biological science, the number of scientists, or the cost of science, which have been generally reported to double about every ten years or less. It follows that, as time passes, and until these exponential rates become considerably altered, a relationship of diminishing returns is quite evident. As time passes, even though the most significant discoveries continue to increase exponentially, it takes a greater total output, a greater number of (assisting?) scientists, and greater amounts of money to yield a set quantity of major new findings. The rapid rise of the life sciences cannot continue its present course into the twenty-first century without meeting ineluctablelimits to expansion. It may be argued that as in other human spheres of activity, so too in natural science there are limits to growth which we are rapidly approaching. From the predictable asymptote only unpredictable breakthroughs might deliver us.
2825493|In response to a stimulus, a sensation is tridimensional: qualitative, quantitative, and affective. The affective part of sensation, pleasure or displeasure, depends on the qualities of the stimulus. Within a narrow range of intensity, chemical, thermal, and mechanical stimuli are able to arouse pleasure. In addition, pleasure depends on the internal state of the subject. This is easily observed in the case of temperature: pleasure is is aroused by a warm stimulus in a hypothermic subject and by a cold stimulus in a hyperthermic subject and by a cold stimulus in a hyperthermic subject. This property of given stimulus in a hypothermic subject and by a cold stimulus in a hyperthermic subject. This property of a given stimulus to arouse pleasure or displeasure according to the internal state of the subject is termed alliesthesia. Alliesthesia is also produced by chemical and mechanical stimuli. Acquired preferences or aversions for alimentary stimuli represent a case of alliesthesia. In the same way, the capacity of any indifferent stimulus to become rewarding, or punishing, by association with some reward or punishment, is also a case of alliesthesia. In all cases, pleasure is a sign of a stimulus useful to the subject; displeasure a sign of danger. Usefulness and danger are judged by the central nervous system with reference to homeostasis and the set point of the implied regulation. Pleasure and displeasure thus appear to motivate useful behaviors.
2824426|Selected earlier contributions by the author concerning the development of Fundulus are reviewed. These concerned the normal development of the egg, and vital staining and transplantation experiments. The transplantations involved grafting of portions of the shield or the germ ring either to the shield or yolk-sac epithelium of gastrulae the same age as the donors. Grafting of portions of the germ ring to the yolk-sac epithelium led generally to negative results. Grafting portions of either germ ring or shield into the shield itself led to the differentiation in the hosts of many supernumerary structures, which were frequently surprisingly well organized. This was true also for grafts of shield material implanted onto the yolk-sac epithelium, even after they had been minced or otherwise fragmented. The results indicate that the Fundulus gastrula has considerable ability to regulate. Study of the behavior of hatchlings, reported in the 1950's, suggested that the central nervous system also has considerable powers of regulation, since when the brain contained accessory parts and was larger than normal, the functional behavior of the hatchlings was less disturbed than might have been expected. New results presented here for the first time report the study of hosts, carrying brain grafts, that were allowed to develop to adult stages. Of 21 specimens into which shield grafts had been implanted at gastrula stages, and which had been allowed to develop to the adult stage, 5 maintained brain grafts of appreciable size attached to or forming part of the primary brain.
2825665|The allometric relationship between supportive tissue mass and total body mass has been investigated in spiders, freshwater mollusks, and bird eggs. These results were compared with data available for birds, land mammals, whales, and a rattlesnake. The comparison indicates that the change in supportive tissue mass as a function of change in total body mass is surprisingly similar in all the organisms considered: a ten-fold change in total body mass is accompanied by a thirteen-fold change in supportive tissue mass. Supportive tissue makes up a larger fraction of the total mass in organisms with external skeletons than in those with internal skeletons. Within the latter group, the vertebrates, the amount of total mass is similar, except for the whales. When corrected for true body mass, whales contain smaller amounts of bone (16-26%) than do land mammals, a difference much less than previously reported. In no case did support tissue mass exceed 20 per cent of total body mass for mobile organisms.
2825666|The phenomenon of male parental care, which is unusually common in bony fishes, has been the subject of numerous evolutionary hypotheses in recent years. In an effort to evaluate these hypotheses the results of a survey of all families whose species exhibit parental care is presented. Sexual selection and female choice for male parental behavior only partially explain this phenomenon. Although females may benefit by males being the care-giving individuals, these benefits may apply equally to males when females are the care-givers. The information avaliable suggests that the effects of care-giving on the future reproduction of the male and the male's provability of genetic relatedness to his mate's offspring are major factors in the evolution and maintanance of male parental behavior. The costs of care-giving are minimized by mating strategies thath enagle males to give parental care and pursue further mating simulteneously. Male fishes with external fertilization often attain a relatively high probability of genetic relatedness to the offspring at the oviposition site. This is a precondition for the evaluation and maintenance of parental behavior.
2825808|This paper attempts to integrate the physiological and ecological perspectives of the reproductive biology of the house mouse (Mus musculus). The endeavor is made within a larger context to provide a prototype for mammalian reproductive ecology in general. Specifically, the environmental regulation of the reproduction of Mus musculus is examined in relation to its ecological opportunism and, in particular, in relation to its history of global colonization. House mice can live as commensals of man or under totally feral conditions. Stable, high density, commensal populations are characterized by an insular division of the living space into demeterritories, each dominated by a single male. Feral populations typically are characterized by temporal, spatial, and social instability. Territoriality is improbable under such conditions, particularly given the necessity for large home ranges in most feral habitats. In both feral and commensal populations, however, male aggressiveness promotes the large-scale dispersal of young, all of which are potential colonizers. Of the ten or so environmental factors known to influence reproduction in house mice, seven probably are of routine importance in natural populations: diurnal modulation by daily light:dark cycles; caloric intake; nutrition; extreme temperature; agonistic stimuli; socio-tactile cues; and priming pheromones. The last two factors named operate directly on the secretion of luteinizing hormone or prolactin; the others act at many points in the reproductive system. Reproduction in the house mouse seems divorced from photoperiodically induced seasonality; indeed, this species breeds well even in constant darkness. Seasonal breeding may or may not then occur, depending upon dietary considerations, with or without a secondary interaction with variation in ambient temperature. There is no evidence for a dependence upon secondary plant compounds. Some of the effects of priming pheromones that have been observed previously in laboratory mice probably play no meaningful role in wild populations. The remaining pheromonal phenomena can be conceptualized as a single cueing system that has three components: (a) urinary cues of socially dominant males can accelerate ovulation in females, adult or prepubertal; (b) female urinary cues may elevate pheromonal potency in adult males, thereby forming a feedback loop by which the females elicit their own ovulation; and (c) the male's action on prepubertal females can be blocked by urinary cues emanating from other females. When all of the above is viewed in toto, the reproductive biology of the house mouse seems uniquely suited to support ecological opportunism. The relatively few environmental inhibitors of reproduction in this species should enhance the ability of dispersing young to colonize an exceptionally wide variety of habitats and climates. This basic reproductive flexibility probably is complemented by genetic diversity among potential colonizers, genetic diversity which, in turn, stems from intra-population and regional selection. The pheromonal system would seem to promote successful colonization by allowing the avoidance of pregnancy before dispersal, while promoting rapid ovulation once a home is established and the probable success of pregnancy is assured. Pheromonal cueing also could be used to time ovulation in adult females during the opportunistic shifting of home ranges that is common in feral populations. In summary, this review seem to provide one physiological explanation for the near-global distribution of the house mouse.
2825807|Various aspects of genetic models of coevolution are reviewed and discussed. The emphasis is on the assumptions made in coevolutionary models and the questions addressed. In the first part of the review, general results from models of single species or of interacting species are summarized. In a number of cases, there are useful maximization and equilibration principles that can be applied to particular coevolutionary problems. Such principles can sometimes be used without making explicit genetic assumptions. The second part of the review summarizes various models of particular types of ecological interactions: generalized competition, character displacement, predator-prey and host-parasite interactions, and mutualism. When possible, the principles available from the general theory are applied. There is also some discussion of the role of different time scales of genetic and ecological change and of the role of assumptions concerning genetic variability in each species. The current emphasis in theoretical studies is on the equilibrium properties of panmictic species under constant conditions. Even under those restrictive conditions, a wide variety of results can be obtained, but it does not seem that there is a consistent effect of coevolution on community stability.
2825809|Definitions of vernacular names in herpetology that are available in current dictionaries of zoology and of herpetology are incomplete and hence are frequently a source of confusion to the beginning student, interested amateur, and professional herpetologist. To help fill this lexicographic hiatus, I have searched the literature for definitions that have been omitted from orthodox scientific dictionaries. These alternative definitions are quoted and presented in the spirit of fostering precise communication within the science of herpetology.
2664376|The accuracy of gene flow estimates is unknown in most natural populations because direct estimates of dispersal are often not possible. These estimates can be highly imprecise or even biased because population genetic structure reflects more than a simple balance between genetic drift and gene flow. Most of the models used to estimate gene flow also assume very simple patterns of movement. As a result, multiple interpretations of population structure involving contemporary gene flow, departures from equilibrium, and other factors are almost always possible. One way to isolate the relative contribution of gene flow to population genetic differentiation is to utilize comparative methods. Population genetic statistics such as F
2664375|Parasite-mediated sexual selection may arise as a consequence of 1) females avoiding mates with directly transmitted parasites, 2) females choosing less-parasitized males that provide parental care of superior quality, or 3) females choosing males with few parasites in order to obtain genes for parasite resistance in their offspring. Studies of specific host-parasite systems and comparative analyses have revealed both supportive and conflicting evidence for these hypotheses. A meta-analysis of the available evidence revealed a negative relationship between parasite load and the expression of male secondary sexual characters. Experimental studies yielded more strongly negative relationships than observations did, and the relationships were more strongly negative for ectoparasites than for endoparasites. There was no significant difference in the magnitude of the negative effect for species with and without male parental care, or between behavioral and morphological secondary sexual characters. There was a significant difference between studies based on host immune function and those based on parasite loads, with stronger effects for measures of immune function, suggesting that the many negative results from previous analyses of parasite-mediated sexual selection may be explained because relatively benign parasites were studied. The multivariate analyses demonstrating strong effect sizes of immune function in relation to the expression of secondary sexual characters, and for species with male parental care as compared to those without, suggest that parasite resistance may be a general determinant of parasite-mediated sexual selection.
2664720|Tithonus asked Aurora for eternal life, when he meant eternal youth. Modern gerontological research makes the same mistake in its preoccupation with death, as if it were a programmed event in an organism's life history. Gerontology ought instead to investigate senescence, the decreasing effectiveness of mechanisms by which adult organisms avoid death or loss of fitness. Such studies should measure rates of decline in a diversity of adaptations and compare them within and between individuals and relate these rates and their correlations to genetic and environmental factors. The death of a studied organism must necessarily end its usefulness in providing valuable data. It is of little scientific significance.
2664721|The 1890s and the first decades of the twentieth century saw a vigorous debate about the mechanisms of evolutionary change. On one side, August Weismann defended the selectionist hypothesis; on the other, Herbert Spencer defended neo-Lamarckian theory. Supporters of Spencer, notably the American paleontologist and evolutionary theorist Henry Fairfield Osborn, recognized that the questions raised by Weismann and Spencer could only be settled experimentally. They called for the application of experimental methods, and the establishment of a new institution for the purpose of confirming the inheritance of acquired characters. To a great extent, the experimental program championed by Osborn and others was implemented and, although it failed to reveal soft inheritance and was soon eclipsed by Mendelian and chromosomal genetics, it did make significant and lasting contributions to evolutionary biology. Thus the importance of methodological and institutional innovation and theoretical pluralism to the progress of science is illustrated and underscored.
2665093|The extensive, persistent ecological dominance of humans is unprecedented. We display a highly derived social adaptation involving uniquely extensive cooperation among nonclose kin. Further, humans possess adaptive capabilities, including language, high cognitive function, and technological virtuosity not previously seen on this planet. Moreover, this suite of properties emerged and was refined very rapidly on a geological time scale. These diverse features of humans present what is referred to as the "human uniqueness problem." A theoretical interpretation of these phenomena is one of the largest remaining challenges to the scientific enterprise. While many interpretations have been proposed-several containing important individual insights-none has yet proven robust or complete. A straightforward resolution of the human uniqueness problem is proposed. It is argued that coalitional enforcement is necessary and sufficient to allow extensive nonkin cooperation, leading to all major elements of human uniqueness. Coalitional enforcement arose uniquely in humans when the animals that founded the Homo clade acquired the ability to kill or injure conspecifics from a substantial distance. This resulted from the evolution of hominid virtuosity at accurate, high-momentum throwing and clubbing, previously supposed to be adaptations for hunting, predator defense or individual aggression. No previous animal could reliably kill or injure conspecifics remotely. This ability dramatically reduced the individual cost of punishing noncooperative behavior by allowing these costs to be distributed among multiple cooperators. The capacity for coalitional enforcement drove the evolution of a cooperative social adaptation stably and autocatalytically from the origin of incipient Homo about 2 million years ago through to the present moment-including socially supported, ultimately spectacular, refinements in weaponry and social monitoring, with attendant increases in efficiency of coalitional enforcement and thus in the extent of human cooperation. Its details rendered this evolutionary process very rapid. This theory is believed to be robust and relatively complete. For example, coalitional enforcement is necessary and sufficient to allow for the evolution of language in an ape. Further, given the likely functional organization of the ancestral vertebrate mind, the coalitional enforcement hypothesis predicts, in addition to genetic information, the emergence of a second stream of design information in Homo, susceptible to Darwinian selection. A novel source of design information has long been suspected on empirical and intuitive grounds to be responsible for the uniquely high level of human adaptive sophistication. The unprecedented cognitive power of human minds is also predicted by these implications of the theory. Lastly, the "cognitive explosion" associated with the relatively recent appearance of behaviorally modern humans is predicted by the theory, as is the increasing size of human political units. The coalitional enforcement hypothesis and its immediate implications now enable the formerly elusive unification of diverse fields of study, including human biology, psychology, linguistics, paleontology, archaeology, anthropology, history, and economics.
2665094|Altruistic behaviors seem anomalous from a traditional view of Darwinian natural selection, and evolutionary explanations for them have generated much discussion. The debate centers around four major explanations: classic individual-level selection, reciprocity and game theory, kin selection, and trait-group selection. The historical context and defining criteria of each model must be reviewed before its validity can be assessed. Of these proposed mechanisms, group selection historically has been the most controversial. Although the extent to which empirical data support group selection hypotheses is uncertain, there is evidence for group-level selection among avirulent virus strains and foraging ant queens. Researchers studying mammalian behavior, particularly primatologists, have largely dismissed models of group-level selection. Most discussion of altruism among primates has focused on differences in fitness among individuals within a single group, but students of altruistic behaviors exhibited by primates also need to investigate intergroup variation with respect to these behaviors. Various altruistic behaviors are likely to have evolved through different forms of selection, and each example of apparent altruism therefore needs to be evaluated separately.
2664622|Despite widespread interest in territorial behavior, the processes by which animals establish territories are still poorly understood. We present a new learning-based model of territory establishment for species in which individuals set up territories within large patches of spatially heterogeneous habitat. The model is based on the simple assumptions that individuals tend to return to areas in which they previously had rewarding experiences and, conversely, tend to avoid areas in which they previously engaged in costly aggressive interactions. The literature on learning and territorial establishment suggests that these assumptions are probably valid for many animals. Individual-based, spatially-explicit simulations of settlement behavior incorporating the assumptions of this model generate a number of phenomena comparable to those observed in territorial animals, including the formation of stable home ranges within large patches of uniform quality habitat, increases in territory size and home range exclusivity if settlers interact aggressively with one another, greater benefits of aggressive behavior if individuals settle at high density than if they settle at low density, higher success for residents when they compete with newcomers for the same space (the "prior residency advantage"), and the avoidance by newcomers of areas used by previous residents. Although the model needs further refinement to generate some phenomena observed in territorial species, our results suggest that the processes responsible for generating several basic components of territorial behavior may be simpler than is currently supposed.
2664621|Recent findings support the long-recognized principle that nutritive and toxic effects of an ingested material depend not only on its nature but very much on its quantity. The well known observation that essential nutrients can be toxic at high dosages suggests that the same reversal of effect may be true of many substances that could be beneficial but not essential at low dosages (the phenomenon of hormesis). This has been demonstrated for many well known toxins. We suggest a mathematical model that describes these dosage effects as an expected result of the evolution of human metabolic and dietary adaptations for maximizing benefits and minimizing costs of the ingestion or other intake of any substance. Evolved mechanisms for achieving benefits may be unrelated to those for reducing costs. These evolutionary considerations suggest important consequences demonstrable by experimental or epidemiological studies. They also suggest ways in which our evolved dietary adaptations may be currently maladaptive, and individual development of taste preferences poorly calibrated by early experience in modern environments. The apparent reality of hormesis raises the possibility of counterproductive effects of current dosage recommendations and limits for nutrients and pollutants. We propose that some conceptual and factual problems are urgently in need of resolution.
2825133|The insect fauna associated with Heliconia plants is one of the most extensively studied of all (non-cultivated) Neotropical insect-plant associations. Studies on Heliconia insect communities have centered on either the herbivorous insects that feed on young rolled leaves, or on those insects that live inside the water-filled floral bracts. I hypothesize that Heliconia floral morphology, in which flowers are protected in water-filled, cuplike bracts, evolved as a defense against flower-feeding and seed-eating insects. This small body of water has, however, attracted a varety of aquatic insects which are Heliconia-specific. Much of the research on Heliconia insect communities sheds light on more general hypotheses concerning the ecology and evolution of tropical insect communities. Heliconia research has pointed out the importance of plant biochemistry, plant phenology, and local plant distributions in determining the life history patterns, species diversity, and population densities of obligate insect associates. Studies on the leaf-feeding herbivores and the bract inhabitants indicate that neither intraspecific nor interspecific competition is a major structuring element in these communities. Parasitism, facilitation, and habitat age are more important than competition in structuring these insect communities. A clear succession can be followed among the insects in the Heliconia bracts. Insect species that are better adapted to water low in detritus are found in the youngest bracts, whereas insect species that use, or are tolerant of, high levels of detritus are found as the bracts age. Finally, biogeographyc patterns show that local accumulations of insect species in Heliconia inflorescences follow a power function similar to that which is used to describe the accumulation of species on islands. On a larger scale, moisture and number of Heliconia species in any location seem to be important in determining species richness among leaf-feeding insects, whereas floral morphology, bract size, and geographic location are important in determining the species composition of the insect communities in Heliconia inflorescences.
2825134|The logistic curve was introduced by Raymond Pearl and Lowell Reed in 1920 and was heavily promoted as a description of human and animal population growth. In subsequent years it underwent a barrage of criticism from statisticians, economists, and biologists, a barrage directed mostly against Pearl's claim that the logistic curve was a law of growth. Nevertheless, it emerged in the mid-1930's as a central model of experimental population biology, and in its various modifications has remained an important part of modern population ecology. The history of the logistic curve reveals that its acceptance was by no means straightforward: repeated promotion of the curve by Pearl and his connections to other scientists were both important in the establishment of its place as a tool of research. The people responsible for legitimizing the logistic curve - A. J. Lotka, G. F. Gause, G. Udny Yule, and Thomas Park - all had different degrees of direct contact with Pearl in the early years of its use, and these personal contacts facilitated the acceptance of the logistic curve despite the heawy criticisms. The history of the logistic curve reveals the complicated social processes which can underlie the development of scientific disciplines.
2826886|Despite a century of evolutionary theory, only in the last few decades have clearly defined procedures for inferring phylogenies been stated. For discrete characters whose ancestral states are known, the prescriptions of Henning are well defined, but they are applicable only when there is no incompatibility between different characters. This limitation has led to the elaboration of a number of methods for dealing with such incompatibilities. One category consists of the parsimony methods, which choose that phylogeny on which the fewest changes of character state need be assumed. Another category consists of the compatibility methods, which choose that phylogeny which is perfectly compatible with the largest number of characters, irrespective of how many changes need be assumed in other characters. Other approaches include the use of phenetic clustering algorithms and methods fitting trees to similarity or distance matrices. Each method has a different set of implicit assumptions concerning the biology of the characters and the information available from the data. If the methods are considered in a statistical framework as different estimators of an unknow quantity (the phylogeny), these asseumptions are more clearly seen. Standard statistical approaches, such as maximum likelihood, can be used to obtain methods whose properties are known and for which one can determine the amount of uncertainty in the resulting estimates of the phylogeny. Although existing statistical models are highly oversimplified and do not reflect the complexity of evolutionary processes, it is by viewing the problem as a statistical one that we can place all these methods in common fremework, within which their behavior and assumptions can be compared. It is essential that we not adopt a single methods as a universal panacea, but that an attempt be made to understand the biological assumptions and statistical behavior of each method.
2826887|Alloparental care and adoption of young, aparently altruistic and reproductively costly behaviors, have been reported in over 120 mammalian and 150 avian species. Members of these taxonomically and ecologically diverse species often share similar behavioral and sociecological strategies in parental care, and may practice strikingly convergent forms of allopareting, such as "babysitting" behavior. Individuals that care for alien young may acquire selective advantages associated with increased inclusive fitness, parental experience, reciprocal altruis, and exploitation of fostered young. In many cases, environmental constraints, such as scare breeding resources of food sources requiring cooperative foraging strategies, appear to influence the occurrence of allopareting and adoption. In addition, proximate factors incorporating "reproductive errors" may be involved in some instances of fostering, Often, several selective benefits, along with various environmental pressures or reproductives mistakes may collectively promote the evolution of alloparental care and adoption. Fostering behaviors have been reported especially often in animals characterized by one or more of the following reproductive or social features, most of which are typical of K-selected species: (1) production of single offspring; (2) prolonged or energetically intensive parental investment; (3) limited lifetime reproductve output; (4) smal groups with tight kinship bonds; (5) highly social or cooperative group structure; and (6) young that are raised in high-density breeding colonies.
2829551|Juvenile hormone (JH) is a developmental hormone of insects. It has become evident in recent years that JH is involved in the control of gene switching and that it exerts this control only during certain critical periods. Such JH-sensitive critical periods occur periodically during the life cycle of an insect. As a rule one or more critical periods exist during each pre-reproductive instar. The presence or absence of JH during any given critical period somehow causes the insect to "choose" between alternative developmental pathway. Using this model for the action of JH, we discuss the endocrine control of metamorphosis, phase determination in locusts and aphids, caste determination is social insects, and certain color polymorphisms.
2829552|The view that high social rank is associated with high levels of both copulatory behavior and the production of offspring is widespread in the study of animal social behavior. In order to demonstrate the validity of this hypothesis it is necessary first to resolve ambiguities in the concept of dominance and to assign ranks by means of valid procedures. Second, copulatory behavior must be properly sampled, measured, and related to rank. Finally, it must be demonstrated that rank and increased copulatory behavior actually lead to increased reproduction. Each step in this process entails conceptual and methodological difficulties. There have been many studies of rank and copulatory behavior, fewer of rank and differential reproduction, and very few of rank, copulatory behavior, and differential reproduction. The consistency of results obtained varies with taxon; results of particular consistency appear in studies of carnivores and ungulates. Both the concept of dominance and the validity of the hypothesis relating it to copulatory behavior and to differential reproduction appear viable for at least some species, although the body of data relating rank to both copulation and differential reproduction remains minimal.
2827464|Is inclusive fitness theory, popularly called "sociobiology," necessarily conservative or reactionary? While this criticism is usually focused on the extension of evolutionary reasoning to human behavior, it implies that contemporary biological theory is ideologically biased. Historical, logical, and empirical evidence shows, however, that models of natural selection based on reproductive success-particularly when redefined in terms of inclusive fitness-are not incompatible with scientific objectivity. This approach is a cost-benefit analysis of social behavior, akin to "rational actor" models in economics, game theory, and public-choice theory. Derived from the "social-contract" tradition in Western political philosophy, epitomized by such varied thinkers as Thrasymachus, Hobbes, and Rousseau, such a calculus of individual advantage has had as broad a range of ideological overtones as the contrasting "sociological" tradition of Aristotle, Marx, and Durkheim. Previous evolutionary explanations of human society have likewise suggested diverse political conclusions. Indeed, if inclusive-fitness models do have political implications, they could well challenge existing sociopolitical beliefs and institutions rather than support them.
2827463|Morphological, genetic, and hormonal stgudies of the process of vitellogenesis, whereby yolk is accumulated in the developing oocytes, have been going on for many years in Drosophila. Recently there has been a resurgence of interest in vitellogenesis, for it provides a model system for investigating how eukaryotic genes are regulated. The proteins found in the yolk are regulated in a tissue-specific, stage-specific and sex-limited fashion. Molecular studies have identified the major proteins concerned and their genes have been cloned. This has facilitated a new approach to how this fascinating process is controlled. In this review current understanding of the factors required for normal vitellogenesis in Drosophila is analyzed. The nature of the proteins themselves, their sites of synthesis, and the organization and characterization of the genes and transcripts that code for them are emphasized. The manner in which the expression of these genes is regulated by the insect hormones, ecdysone and juvenile hormone, is described and, finally, an analysis is made of how various mutants that disrupt vitellogenesis can contribute further to our understanding of vitellogenesis regulation in Drosophila.
3036683|Although spices have been important for centuries in food preparation throughout the world, patterns of spice use differ considerably among cultures and countries. What factors underlie these differences? Why are spices used at all? to investigate these questions, we quantified the frequency of use of 43 spices in the meat-based cuisines of the 36 countries for which we could locate traditional cookbooks. A total 4578 recipes from 93 cookbooks was analysed. We also compiled information on the temperature and precipitation in each country, the ranges of spice plants, and the antibacterial properties of each spice. These data were used to investigate the hypothesis that spices inhibit or kill food-spoilage microorganisms. In support of this is the fact that spice plant secondary compounds are powerful antimicrobial (i.e., antibacterial and antifungal) agents. As mean annual temperatures (an indicator of relative spoilage rates of unrefrigerated foods) increased, the proportion of recipes containing spices, number of spices per recipe, total number of spices used, and use of the most potent antibacterial spices all increased, both within and among countries. Likewise, the estimated fraction of bacterial species inhibited per recipe in each country was positively correlated with annual temperature. Several alternative hypotheses were considered-that spices provide macronutrients, disguise the taste and smell of spoiled foods, or increase perspiration and thus evaporative cooling; it also is conceivable that spice use provides no benefits. However, none of these four alternatives was well supported by our data. The proximate reason spices are used obviously is to enhance food palatability. But the ultimate reason is most likely that spices help cleanse foods of pathogens and thereby contribute to the health, longevity and reproductive success of people who find their flavors enjoyable.
3037471|Signals used to attract mates are often conspicuous to predators and parasites, and their evolution via sexual selection is expected to be opposed by viability selection. Many secondary sexual traits may represent a compromise between attractiveness and avoidance of detection. Although such signal exploitation appears to be widespread, most examples come from species that use acoustic or olfactory mating signals, and relatively few cases of visual signal exploitation can be substantiated. Because males are usually the signaling sex, they are more at risk from predators or parasitoids that locate prey or hosts by sexual signals; this differential selection on the two sexes can affect the intensity of sexual selection on male ornamental traits. The notable exception to male signaling and female attraction occurs in pheromone-producing insects, particularly lepidopterans, which show an opposite pattern of female odor production. Exploitation of such sex pheromones is relatively rare. We discuss reasons for the reversal in sex roles in these species and its implications for signal exploitation. Changes in signals that appear to be adaptations to avoid predation include the use of different signal modalities, changes in signaling behavior, loss of signals, and alteration of signal characteristics such as pitch. Selection pressure from signal exploiters could lead to the production of a novel signal and thus facilitate speciation. Relatively little work has been done on adaptations on the part of the exploiting species, but such adaptations could indirectly influence the mating system of the predator or parasitoid. Signal exploitation is also expected to be a fruitful source of examples of coevolution. Finally, plants emit attractants analogous to secondary sex characters in animals, and may also be vulnerable to signal exploitation.
3037472|Genetic tumors that occur in intraspecific and interspecific hybrids of certain plant genera, in particular Nicotiana, are reviewed. Tumors occur on certain interspecific hybrids, as well as on parasexual hybrids in Nicotiana, substantiating the genetic control of tumor formation. The morphology, histology, fine structure, cytology and genetic control of tumors are discussed. The effect of envornmental factors, including radiation, are considered in relation to tumor expression, and the induction of mutations from tumor to nontumor state. The roles of phytohormones, cytokinins, and auxins are discussed with respect to habituation and growth autonomy. The relevance of cellular T-DNA sequences of bacterial (Agrobacterium) origin in certain Nicotiana species to tumor formation, and the molecular biology of genetic tumors in Nicotiana, are examined. The origin of tumors and the regulation of genetic components involved in genetic tumors are considered in the framework of current genetic models of the initiation and development of genetic tumors.
3036558|Although adaptive explanations for menstruation go back at least twenty-five hundred years, in the last decade two new hypotheses have been advanced. The first suggests that menstruation evolved to cleanse the uterus of pathogens introduced by sperm, and the second argues that the function of endometrial regression (with the associated menstruation in humans) is to save energy by getting rid of tissue, rather than maintaining it in the absence of an available blastocyst. Both these suggestions may be questioned on the grounds that they do not take into account the physiology of the reproductive processes involved. Menstruation is not an independent physiological process and is unlikely to have been selected for independently of the evolutionary events that led to it. Furthermore, most primitive menstruating animals would have menstruated infrequently, and many may have reproduced or died without ever menstruating. In order to provide a context for understanding how menstruation may have come about, the evolution of the female vertebrate reproductive tract is briefly reviewed. In later stages, the coevolution of the embryo and uterus resulted in an intimate association between the trophoblast and the uterine blood vessels. As the embryo became more invasive, the uterus responded with increased cellular growth and differentiation of the endometrium to accommodate it. This reached its peak in mammals (such as rodents and humans), where the embryo passes through the epithelium into the endometrial stroma, which responds with differentiation of cells and blood vessels. Progesterone, secreted after ovulation, plays a crucial role in preparation for pregnancy. In addition to its well-known effects on the uterus, progesterone may be important in suppressing the inflamatory reaction that would be expected in response to the presence of a foreign body, such as an embryo. It is also suggested that vascular and cellular differentiation of the endometrial stroma has evolved by adaptation of the inflamatory (granulation tissue) reaction. When progesterone levels fall at the end of the cycle, there is tissue breakdown and bleeding. The uterus then reforms for the next ovulatory cycle. It is shown that the female reproductive tract has multiple functions that must occur in sequence. The coevolution of the embryo and maternal tract thus led to the close contact of two genetically different tissues, and problems such as the inflammatory reaction had to be overcome. Menstruation is a necessary consequence of these evolutionary changes, and needed no adaptive value in order to evolve.
3036557|Methods of inferring phylogenetic relationships have received an enormous amount of attention in recent years. One missing component in much of this work concerns the analysis of the data being used. Most techniques of phylogenetic inference, including parsimony, assume the independence of characters, and the assigment of equal weights to characters assumes that they have an equal probability of change. Although systematics using molecular data have begun to deal with issues of character correlation and weighting, they are generally avoided by those using morphological data. Systematists have paid relatively little attention to morphological characters that may be correlated for reassons other than commonality of descent. We review some of the reasons that the assumption of independence of characters may be violated for morphological features, and suggest ways in which detailed analysis of the phenotype may lead to both a priori and a posteriori rationales for weighting of morphological characters. Just at it seems prudent to explore phylogenetic hypotheses that are less than the most parsimonious, systematics would be well served if researchers more fully explored the causes and consequences of character correlations that may exist in morphological data sets. Our two examples, the evolution of sexual dimorphism in voiceless frogs and the role of heterochrony in the evolution of chaenopsid fishes, illustrate that character weighting provides potential insights into both systematic relationships and the evolution of character complexes.
3036917|Precopulatory mate guarding in crustaceans is a common male mating strategy when female receptivity for copulation is short. The decision to start guarding is not made by only males, however; it is commonly found that females resist the guarding attempts of males. Furthermore, experimental data show that males aim for longer guarding durations than females allow. Shorter guarding durations may be favored by females because of a number of potential costs of guarding. Precopulatory guarding therefore presents a model case of intersexual conflict where the fitness-maximizing strategies of males and females differ. When the interests of the sexes are in conflict, the actual guarding duration may be a compromise between male and female optima, resulting from the adjustment of contest to the fitness gains of winning and to the fighting abilities of the parties. Intersexual conflicts are also likely to generate sexual selection on male and female traits related to the outcome of the contests.
3036918|Animal welfare is a topic often thought to reside outside mainstream biology. The complexity of the methods used to assess welfare (such as health, physiology, immunological state, and behavior) require an understanding of a wide range of biological phenomena. Furthermore, the "welfare" of an animal provides a framework in which a diversity of its responses can be understood as fitness-enhancing mechanisms. Different methods for assessing animal welfare are discussed, with particular emphasis on the role of an animal's own choices and reinforcement mechanisms. No part of biology is as yet able to explain consciousness, but by confronting the possibility that nonhuman animals have conscious experiences of suffering, animal welfare studies force a consideration of even this hardest problem of all biological phenomena in a particularly direct and evolutionary way.
2817929|The fossil record and information about contemporary forms provide evidence that the evolutionary pattern of bison cannot be interpreted as either a unidirectional decrease in horn size or as a series of successive invasions to the New World from the Old. Rather, some species have persisted and remained relatively unchanged for long periods of time, while elsewhere other contemporaneous species were changing quite rapidly. Although the trends in the evolution of bison horn size have been remarkably regular, major reversals have taken place. Bison arose in Eurasia and have had a much longer history there than is North America. In spite of this longer history in the Old World, bison have undergone greater evolutionary changes in North America. This can be explained by a different mode and intensity of competition in the New World. The major points presented are the following: (1) The giant-horned B. latifrons was a New World product. (2) B. priscus (= B. crassicornus) appeared early as a holarctic northern species and remained in that niche until the late Wisconsin (Wurm). (3) Most of the other bison species in the late Pleistocene were derived indirectly or directly from this widespread northern species. (4) Middle and Late Pleistocene bison can be place into four species: B. priscus, which can be dated at least as far back as early mid-Pleistocene; B. latifrons, which extends back at least to late Illonoian (Riss) time (it is possible that B. latifrons gave rise to B. antiquus; if so the species B. alleni should be maintained); B. antiquus, which originated during the early to middle part of the Wisconsin (Wurm) glaciation; and B. bison, which was a late Wisconsin product. (5) B. latifrons became extinct, at least over most of its range, in pre-Wisconsin time. B. priscus and B. antiquus became extinct in the late Wisconsin, and B. bison still exists in relict populations. (6) Two or more species of bison have not occurred sympatrically for extended periods of time. (7) Neither the "orthogenetic" nor the "wave" theory adequately accounts for the evolution of bison in North America; rather, the fossils can only be explained by a combination of invasions from Siberia and evolutionary changes that occurred in the new environment.
2817930|Hairs are epidermal derivatives, the type, structure, and arrangement of which are related to the role of the mammalian pelage. Hair follicles probably evolved from amphibian apidermal excrescences which became modified into sensory pits of the reptilelike ancestors of mammals. Pelage affords insulation, is sensitive to external stimuli, may be modified for defense or display, assists in buoyancy and streamlining in water, and aids concealment on land. The basic grouping of hair follicles by threes (trio group) appears almost to have been lost in the Pinnipedia, in which other anatomical adaptations to an aquatic habit include flattened guard hairs, loss of erector (arrector pili) muscles and modified cutaneous glands. Periodic growth and replacement of the pelage is essential to survival. The pelage cycle is closely related to the annual cycle with respect to seasonal requirements dictated by the environment, such as climate and life processes, particularly reproduction. Different pelages occur at different stages of the life history and also according to varying seasonal demands, especially in arctic and subarctic terrestrial species. Hair growth and molting are established before sexual maturity,or even prenatally, and are inherent features in the biology of mammals. Nevertheless, pelage cycles are coordinated with respect to season (and hence the annual cycle) by the direct proximate stimulus of light acting through neuro-endocrine pathways. Pelage growth may also be regulated directly by nutritional status and, to some extent, indirectly by temperature and behavior. The pelage cycle must be regarded from the point of view of the whole process of follicular activity and fiber production, rather than simply the externally visible molt, if that unique mammalian characteristic, hair, is to be understood in its true biological perspective.
2821009|The rodents have been generally regarded as basically herbivorous animals. A review of the literature of the natural history of the feeding habits of rodents shows many species in all major lines of rodent evolution to be, to a surprising degree, carnivorous, piscivorous, or insectivorous. It is argued, therefore, that the primitive adaptation of the rodent mandibulo-dental apparatus was for an omnivorous diet rather than a herbivorous one, and that, indeed, the versatility of the feeding adaptation was the primary factor in the highly successful adaptive radiation in the order. A functional-morphological study of the rodent gnawing adaptation supports the argument.
2821007|Neuroid conduction, as here defined, refers to the propagation of electrical events in the membranes of non-nervous, nonmuscular cells. Examples from protistants, plants, and animals are described. In the dinoflagellate Noctiluca, propagated membrane depolarizations accompany the spread of the luminescent response, and local electrical changes are associated with tentacle movement. The ability of Noctiluca to conduct is attributable to its peculiar geometry, in which much of the cytoplasm is confined to a thin peripheral layer surrounding the flotation vacuole, a condition that permits local current flow to develop. Fresh-water algae of the family Characeae show propagated action potentials in which chloride efflux is the major event responsible for electrogenesis. Chloride spikes are presumed to be an adaptation to fresh water, following Grundfest (1966c). Among the higher plants, Dionaea and Mimosa provide examples of neuroid conduction. The former also possess trigger cells which function in an analagous way to certain animal receptors. In Mimosa there is evidence that the cells responsible for conduction of electrical events are located in the vascular bundles and that propagation requires simultaneous activation of a number of cells lying parallel in the bundles, as in mammalian smooth muscle. In both cases transmission from cell to cell is thought to be electrical via low-resistance pathways. In hydromedusae and siphonophores neuroid conduction occurs in the exumbrellar ectoderm and subumbrellar endoderm, the two layers being linked as a transmission pathway for excitation going to ectodermal smooth muscle systems. The "crumpling" behavior of medusae is transmitted by this system, but nervous components may be involved in the generation of the full response. Reverse locomotion in physonectid siphonophores (e.g., Nanomia) involves activation of neuroid pathways. In the siphonophore Hippopodius, neuroid conduction in the exumbrella is coupled to luminescent and blanching reactions. Neuroid conduction in all these forms provides a rapid and efficient method of information transfer. It is typically associated with the spread of protective and locomotory responses and is general rather than local in effect. The more complex and local responses are believed to be organized by the nervous system. In ctenophores, recent work suggests that propagation of the ciliary beat between cells of the comb plates is neuroid, and that inhibition of ciliary activity is nervous. Certain cells in the ciliated grooves seem to represent neurons in process of evolution from non-nervous, ciliated cells. In the pluteus larva of an echinoderm, coordination of ciliary reversal is associated with electrical signals apparently of non-nervous origin. In another larval form, that of the toad Xenopus, neuroid conduction has been demonstrated in the skin at a stage before the nerve supply reaches the skin, giving the tadpole a precocious capacity for response. As for the evolution of conduction, conducting tissues probably arose independently in many lines of evolution. Frequently the conducting tissue would have evolved from an epithelium in which the cells were connected by pathways serving for metabolic communication, the existence of these junctions predisposing the tissue for electrical transmission of propagated depolarizations. The effective conducting units in such tissues would have been groups of electrically coupled cells, rather than individual cells as such. In animals, nerve and muscle tissues are considered to have arisen from primitive myoepithelial sheets in which transmission occurred through low-resistance intercellular pathways. With the need for increased specificity in the conduction and response system, the original tight coupling between the cells would be replaced by specialized synapses. While electronic synapses have the potential to perform many integrative functions of the nervous system, chemical synapses have in general prevailed.
2821008|One method of studying the effects of time as a soil-forming factor is to recognize and investigate a chronosequence, wherein four out of five soil-forming factors are constant or vary ineffectively. Thus, observed differences between soils of different ages forming a sequence are deemed to be the result of the lapse of varying intervals of time since the initiation of soil formation. In this paper theoretical considerations underlying the chronosequence concept are examined and soil development is discussed. Several non-strict chronosequences are reviewed, and a number of chronosequence studies are examined. The significance of such studies is assessed, and general desiderata for future investigations set out.
2821323|Several research areas, notably those of psychology, physiology, and ethology, are reviewed in order to construct an interdisciplinary picture of problems and concepts pertaining to neurobehavioral development. Genetic factors, pre- and post-natal experiences and environmental influences which may affect ontogeny and modify the behavioral phenotype are reviewed. Development is considered as a series or continuum of genotype-environment interactions, and the effects of self-stimulation, experiential deprivation, enrichment, and "handling" are discussed. Ontogenetic phenomena, such as heterochronous patterning, induction and canalization, socialization, exploration and motivation, and the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny of behavior are detailed to exposes the dynamic and intrinsic complexities of neurobehavioral development and of the genotype-environment interaction.
2821324|It has long been known that meristic characters, and especially the number of vertebrae, in many fishes are affected by environmental factors such as temperature, salinity, oxygen concentration, and light during early development. The temperature response curve of vertebral number for offspring from a single mating is often Ushaped, but may be inversely linear or some other shape. Less is known about response to other variables, but there is generally a clear trend within the tolerance range. The genotype of a fish significantly affects the response curve of vetebral number to environmental factors. A few studies have shown that tetrapod meristic characters are also sesitive to temperature and light. Earlier reviews and recent experiments papers are cited d analyzed to show that these phenomena can now be investigated experimentally. Metabolic rate has been correlated with vertebral number and the possible implications of this are discussed. Theories accounting for the formation of somites are examined. The customary methods of measuring development are regarded as inexact and unsuitable for explanation of the phenomena discussed here. Two interesting evolutionary implications are discussed: teh absence of genetic assimilation of vertebral number, and the apparent absence of selection for a single specific vertebral number in each population.
2822018|According to modern astronomy, planetary systems and the conditions suitable for life are considered to be of common occurrence in the universe. The Oparin-Haldane hypothesis postulates the prebiotic synthesis of organic compounds as a necessary preamble to the origin of life on Earth. Experimental work in many laboratories has produced considerable evidence in support of this idea. It is therefore reasonable to suppose that a similar sequence of events may have taken place elsewhere in the universe. In our search for life beyond the Earth, the planet Mars is of special interest. Its physical parameters, though severe, do not exclude the possibility that microorganisms may exist on that planet. Several experiments are being planned for the 1975 opposition of Mars. The results of such investigations may have a profound effect on our concepts of the nature of life itself.
2822019|Recent developments in techniques of analyzing plant communities and resultant changes in the concept of community have considerable relevance for theoretical and experimental studies of competition and adaptation of plants in communities-i.e., niche segregation. A knowledge of the community, its organization, and the behavior, of populations in the context of a variable community are important for an adequate understanding of the biology of the population. Experimental studies with individual populations or simple combinations of species are effective for elucidating elementary processes within the community; but the problems of extrapolating from these to the whole community are formidable if not insurmountable. Single-species studies or paired-species studies are not likely to solve the problems of distribution of species in the field, the differentiation of niches, the distribution of dominance-diversity relations, or the nature of community organization and succession. Studies at the community level are complementary to, and necessary for, the effective implementation of studies at the population level, and increased collaboration is therefore essential. Extensive studies of plant competition, which leave, and raise, many questions concerning the process of competition in the community and its role in developing and maintaining the patterns of species relations seen in ordination studies, are reviewed.
QRB2532|Measurementthe assignment of numbers to attributes of the natural worldis central to all scientific inference. Measurement theory concerns the relationship between measurements and reality; its goal is ensuring that inferences about measurements reflect the underlying reality we intend to represent. The key principle of measurement theory is that theoretical context, the rationale for collecting measurements, is essential to defining appropriate measurements and interpreting their values. Theoretical context determines the scale type of measurements and which transformations of those measurements can be made without compromising their meaningfulness. Despite this central role, measurement theory is almost unknown in biology, and its principles are frequently violated. In this review, we present the basic ideas of measurement theory and show how it applies to theoretical as well as empirical work. We then consider examples of empirical and theoretical evolutionary studies whose meaningfulness have been compromised by violations of measurement-theoretic principles. Common errors include not paying attention to theoretical context, inappropriate transformations of data, and inadequate reporting of units, effect sizes, or estimation error. The frequency of such violations reveals the importance of raising awareness of measurement theory among biologists.
QRB3161|Multiple sclerosis is a complex neurodegenerative disease, thought to arise through autoimmunity against antigens of the central nervous system. The autoimmunity hypothesis fails to explain why genetic and environmental risk factors linked to the disease in one population tend to be unimportant in other populations. Despite great advances in documenting the cell and molecular mechanisms underlying MS pathophysiology, the autoimmunity framework has also been unable to develop a comprehensive explanation of the etiology of the disease. I propose a new framework for understanding MS as a dysfunction of the metabolism of lipids. Specifically, the homeostasis of lipid metabolism collapses during acute-phase inflammatory response triggered by a pathogen, trauma, or stress, starting a feedback loop of increased oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and proliferation of cytoxic foam cells that cross the blood brain barrier and both catabolize myelin and prevent remyelination. Understanding MS as a chronic metabolic disorder illuminates four aspects of disease onset and progression: 1) its pathophysiology; 2) genetic susceptibility; 3) environmental and pathogen triggers; and 4) the skewed sex ratio of patients. It also suggests new avenues for treatment.
QRB2808|Ernst Mayr said that one of Darwin's greatest contributions was to show scholars the way to population thinking, and to help them discard a mindset of typological thinking. Population thinking rejects a focus on a central representative type, and emphasizes the variation among individuals. However, Mayr's choice of terms has led to confusion, particularly among biologists who study natural populations. Both population thinking and the concept of a biological population were inspired by Darwin, and from Darwin the chain for both concepts runs through Francis Galton who introduced the statistical usage of population that appears in Mayr's population thinking. It was Galton's population that was modified by geneticists and biometricians in the early 20th century to refer to an interbreeding and evolving community of organisms. Under this meaning, a population is a biological entity and so paradoxically population thinking, which emphasizes variation at the expense of dwelling on entities, is usually not about populations. Mayr did not address the potential for misunderstanding, but for him the important part of the population concept was that the organisms within a population were variable, and so he probably thought there should not be confusion between population thinking and the concept of a population.
QRB2874|Computational systems are useful in neuroscience in many ways. For instance, they may be used to construct maps of brain structure and activation, or to describe brain processes mathematically. Furthermore, they inspired a powerful theory of brain function, in which the brain is viewed as a system characterized by intrinsic computational activities or as a computational information processor. Although many neuroscientists believe that neural systems really perform computations, some are more cautious about computationalism or reject it. Thus, does the brain really compute? Answering this question requires getting clear on a definition of computation that is able to draw a line between physical systems that compute and systems that do not, so that we can discern on which side of the line the brain (or parts of it) could fall. In order to shed some light on the role of computational processes in brain function, available neurobiological data will be summarized from the standpoint of a recently proposed taxonomy of notions of computation, with the aim of identifying which brain processes can be considered computational. The emerging picture shows the brain as a very peculiar system, in which genuine computational features act in concert with noncomputational dynamical processes, leading to continuous self-organization and remodeling under the action of external stimuli from the environment and from the rest of the organism.
QRB2565|Geophagy has been hypothesized to be an adaptive behavior, either as a means to allay nutrient deficiency or to protect against ingested pathogens and toxins. Others have proposed that geophagy is non-adaptive, occurring either to allay hunger or as an epiphenomenon of nutrient deficiencies. This paper evaluates these hypotheses using 482 published cultural-level accounts of human geophagy and 330 accounts of geophagy among 297 species of mammals, birds, and reptiles. Information was extracted from reports of human geophagy to permit statistical analysis; reports of non-human geophagy were tabulated. Human geophagy did not parallel changes in nutrient requirements, occurred most frequently among children and pregnant women and in tropical areas (where pathogen densities are highest), and was associated with ingestion of toxic substances and gastrointestinal distress. Earth ingested by humans was craved and carefully selected and prepared; it had high clay content, but few bioavailable mineral nutrients. In primates, geophagy was associated with both protection from toxins and obtaining nutrients, whereas in other vertebrates it was associated mainly with obtaining nutrients. Our results indicate that human geophagy is best explained as providing protection from dietary chemicals, parasites, and pathogens, whereas animal geophagy may involve both micronutrient acquisition and protection.
QRB2675|A major goal of research in ecology and evolution is to explain why species richness varies across habitats, regions, and clades. Recent reviews have argued that species richness patterns among regions and clades may be explained by ecological limits on diversity over time, which are said to offer an alternative explanation to those invoking speciation and extinction (diversification) and time. Further, it has been proposed that this hypothesis is best supported by failure to find a positive relationship between time (e.g., clade age) and species richness. Here, I critically review the evidence for these claims, and propose how we might better study the ecological and evolutionary origins of species richness patterns. In fact, ecological limits can only influence species richness in clades by influencing speciation and extinction, and so this new alternative paradigm is simply one facet of the traditional idea that ecology influences diversification. The only direct evidence for strict ecological limits on richness (i.e., constant diversity over time) is from the fossil record, but many studies cited as supporting this pattern do not, and there is evidence for increasing richness over time. Negative evidence for a relationship between clade age and richness among extant clades is not positive evidence for constant diversity over time, and many recent analyses finding no age-diversity relationship were biased to reach this conclusion. More comprehensive analyses strongly support a positive age-richness relationship. There is abundant evidence that both time and ecological influences on diversification rates are important drivers of both large-scale and small-scale species richness patterns. The major challenge for future studies is to understand the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms underpinning the relationships between time, dispersal, diversification, and species richness patterns.
QRB2654|Sex determination is typically classified as either genotypic or environmental. However, this dichotomy obscures the developmental origin and evolutionary modification of determinants of sex, and therefore hinders an understanding of the processes that generates diversity in sex-determining systems. Recent research on reptiles and fish emphasizes that sex determination is a multifactorial regulatory process that is best understood as a threshold dichotomy rather than as the result of genetically inherited triggers of development. Here we critically assess the relationship between the developmental origin of sex-determining factors and evolutionary transitions in sex-determining systems. Our perspective emphasizes the importance of both genetic and nongenetic causes in evolution of sex determination and may help to generate predictions with respect to the evolutionary patterns of sex-determining systems and the underlying diversity of developmental and genetic regulatory networks.
QRB2771|Selection has led to the evolution of a variety of different mating strategies, each adapted to different competitive challenges. But what happens if the competitive challenges depend on the social environment? Here we discuss and review examples of socially cued anticipatory plasticity: irreversible developmental tactics in which resource allocation during the juvenile stage is altered to develop an appropriate phenotype for the competitive or mate choice environment that an individual encounters when mature. There are numerous theoretical and empirical examinations of the role of the social environment on the strength and direction of selection. However, only a handful of empirical studies examine how the social environment affects juvenile allocation and whether such tactics are adaptive. The goal of this review is to synthesize current knowledge about socially cued anticipatory plasticity, including the sensory modalities that individuals use to predict the adult competitive and mating environment. We then outline the various factors that are necessary for the evolution of socially cued anticipatory plasticity and discuss how this can affect phenotypic evolution. We conclude by suggesting some directions that future studies should take in order to understand how social variation can alter selection and the evolution of development.
3037829|Several evolutionary processes influence virulence, the amount of damage a parasite causes to its host. For example, parasites are favored to exploit their hosts prudently to prolong infection and avoid killing the host. Parasites also need to use some host resources to reproduce and transmit infections to new hosts. Thus parasites face a tradeoff between prudent exploitation and rapid reproduction -a life history tradeoff between logevity and fecundity. Other tradeoffs among components of parasite fitness also influence virulence. For example, competition among parasite genotypes favors rapid growth to achieve greater relative success within the host. Rapid growth may, however, lower the total productivity of the local group by overexploiting the host, which is a potentially renewable food suply. This is a problem of kin selection and group selection. I summarize models of parasite virulence with the theoretical tools of life history analysis, kin selection, and epidemiology. I then apply the theory to recent empirical studies and models of virulence. These applications, to nematodes, to the extreme virulence of hospital epidemics, and to bacterial meningitis, show the power of simple life history theory to highlight interesting questions and to provide a rich array of hypotheses. These examples also show the kinds of conceptual mistakes that commonly arise when only a few components of parasite fitness are analysed in isolation. The last part of the article connects standard models of parasite virulence to diverse topics, such as the virulence of bacterial plasmids, the evolution of genomes, and the processes that influence conflict and cooperation among the earliest replicators near the origin of life.
3037832|Philosophers of science have claimed that the position of biology among the sciences is the most prominent and controversial issue of the philosophy of biology. Some authors consider biology merely a "province" of physics and reducible to physics, others uphold the autonomy of biology, while still others have decided that biology lacks the rigor to justify being considered a genuine science. In my own analysis of this problem. I have concluded that the science of biology has all the attributes of a genuine science, as well as a number of other characteristics restricted to biology. These characteristics are listed and discussed. They justify ranking biology as an autonomous science, just as autonomous as physics and many other sciences.
3037828|Within a population there are frequently several discrete morphs. While in some cases, particularly color polymorphisms, this variation can be explained by simple Mendelian modes of inheritance, in many cases the evidence suggests a polygenic pattern of inheritance. The threshold model of quantitative genetics, in which discrete morphs are determined by some underlying continuously distributed trait and a threshold(s) of expression, is applied appropriately in these cases. The discrete morphs exhibited in cyclomorphosis, pedomorphosis, pedogenesis, "protective" dimorphisms, trophic dimorphisms, wing dimorphism, and mating strategies can all be analyzed by using this model. Analyses of a wide range of different types of threshold traits show that there is typically a large additive genetic component, but that there is also strong environmental induction. A review of studies shows that no morph has a universally higher fitness, but that there is a tradeoff, with the relative fitnesses of two morphs being contingent upon environmental conditions. For example, exuberant structures that serve to protect organisms from predators reduce other components of fitness, such as development time and fecundity. Environmental induction is an adaptive norm of reaction, in that cues of current or future conditions are used to increase the probability that the morph produced is that which has the highest fitness under the expected conditions. Most models for the evolution of threshold traits have focused on the phenotype and have not addressed the crucial question of what maintains genetic variation, and hence permits continued evolutionary change. Phenotypic models show that noninducible polymorphic variation cannot be maintained by spatial variation alone, but can be favored in an environment that is temporally variable. Multiple phenotypes may evolve in a spatially variable environment if there are cues that allow the organism to assess the type of patch in which it is developing; thus spatial variation is expected to lead to the evolution of inducible phenotypes. Considerable genetic variation can be maintained by mutation, even in the face of strong directional selection. Frequency-dependent selection, shown to play an important role in the maintenance of phenotypic variation, may also be significant in the maintenance of genetic variation.
3037026|Since 1813, when Crampton first described the ciliary muscle of the avian eye, there has been little agreement on how birds are able to change the focus of their eyes. Numerous later studies on the eyes of a variety of bird species contradicted earlier findings or proposed new accommodative mechanisms. The resulting confusion persists today, and a number of significant works on the avian eye perpetuate many of the myths developed during the 1800s. There is little consensus on avian accommodation; the early literature contains many accurate descriptions of the mechanisms, along with elegant experimental evidence to support them. Much of the early literature, however, is in German and has remained obscure. Further, among the mechanistic descriptions of avian accommodation are many that are incorrect. The current confusion can be attributed in part to the fact that some birds have both corneal and lenticular accommodation. It is unclear to what extent differential bird species employ both mechanisms, or depend on one mechanism or the other. These facts, together with the diversity of bird species, their range of visual requirements, and the numerous anatomical differences in their eyes, make it impossible to describe a single avian mechanism of accommodation. Our own experience in studying accommodation in the chick eye has led us to review the historical literature in an attempt to provide a new foundation for future studies on visual accommodation in birds. While in relation to the anatomical arrangements [of the bird eye], these have led our knowledge pretty much to a conclusion... There is among all these works no real difference of opinion. However, in terms of the accommodative mechanism of the bird eye, at the present time there are many different views of what is going on. Here the circumstances are very similar to what happened a few decades ago in the study of accommodation generally, but particularly with humans, when Helmholtz made the remark, "There is no other portion of physiological optics in which one finds so many differing and contradictory ideas as in the accommodation of the eye, where we have only recently actually made observations on what previously was left to the play of hypotheses" (Beer 1893:193).
3037027|Winter is energetically demanding. Physiological and behavior adaptations have evolved among nontropical animals to cope with winter because thermoregulatory demands increase when food availability decreases. Seasonal breeding is central within the suite of winter adaptations among small animals. Presumably, reproductive inhibition during winter conserves energy at a time when the odds of producing viable young are low. In addition to the well-studied seasonal cycles of mating and birth, there are also significant seasonal cycles of illness and death among many populations of mammals and birds in the field. Challenging winter conditions, such as low ambient temperatures and decreased food availability, can directly induce death via hypothermia, starvation, or shock. In some cases, survival in demanding winter conditions puts individuals under great physiological stress, defined here as an adaptive process that results in elevated blood levels of glucocorticoids. The stress of coping with energetically demanding conditions can also indirectly cause illness and death by compromising immune function. Presumably, the increased blood concentrations of adrenocortical steroids in response to winter stressors compromise immune function and accelerate catabolic mechanisms in the field, although the physiological effects of elevated glucocorticoids induced by artificial stressors have been investigated primarily in the laboratory. However, recurrent environmental stressors could reduce survival if they evoke persistent glucocorticoid secretion. The working hypothesis of this article is that mechanisms have evolved in some animals to cambat seasonal stress-induced immunocompromise as a temporal adaptation to promote survival. Furthermore, we hypothesize that mechanisms have evolved that allow individuals to anticipate periods of immunologically challenging conditions, and to cope with these seasonal health-threatening conditions. The primary environmental cue that permits physiological anticipation of season is the daily photoperiod; however, other environmental factors may interact with photoperiod to affect immune function and disease processes. The evidence for seasonal fluctuations in lymphatic organ size, structure, immune function, and disease processes, and their possible interactions with recurrent environmental stressor, is reviewed. Seasonal peaks of lymphatic organ size and structure generally occur in late autumn or early winter and seasonal minima are oberved prior to the onset of breeding. Although many of the field data suggest that immune function and disease processes are also enhanced during the winter, the opposite seasonal pattern is also observed in some studies. We propose that compromised immune function may be observed in some populations during particularly harsh winters when stressors override the enhancement of immune function evoked by short day lenghts. Because so many factors covary in field studies, assessment of our proposal that photoperiod mediates seasonal changes in immune function requires laboratory studies in which only photoperiod is varied. A review of the effects of photoperiod on immune function in laboratory studies reveals that exposure to short day lengths enhances immune function in every species examined. Short day exposure in small mammals causes reproductive inhibition and concomitant reduction in plasma levels of prolactin and steroid hormones, as well as alterations in the temporal pattern of pineal melatonin secretion. These hormones effect immune function, and influence the development of opportunistic disease, including cancer; however, it appears that either prolactin or melatonin secretion is responsible for mediating the effects of photoperiod on immune function. Taken together, day length appears to affect immune function in many species, including animals that typically do not exhibit reproductive responsiveness to day length. These data could have a major impact on understanding the etiology and progression of diseases in humans and nonhuman animals. The clinical significance of these data is also considered.
3035647|For more than 200 years, ciliated protozoa have been identified and allocated Species names largely on the basis of the rich morphological variety they present. We have examined the species richness of all free-living ciliate genera, described historical trends in the descriptions of new species, and estimated the number of species currently known. We have quantified the value of taxonomic revisions, and conclude that the number of known, extant free-living species is close to 3000. We have investigated the concept of "species" and the meaning of "biodiversity" in relation to ciliates, and conclude that the bilogical species concept is neither appropriate nor practicable. Insofar as ciliate morphology is closely correlated with the function of the organism in nature, the morphospecies concept is as valid as any, and probably more pragmatic than any other. Thus, when speaking of "species diversity," or the "biodiversity" of ciliates, we refer to diversity of form and function. The majority of ciliate species in the more frequently studied habitats have probably already been discovered, but an accurate picture of ciliate diversity on a global scale will require substantial taxonomic revision of many long-established and crowded genera, together with the investigation and description of new forms from previously unexplored habitats.
3035648|Like mammals, Lepidoptera possess female-specific sex chromatin. In a compilation of new and published data, 81% 238 investigated Lepidoptera species display one or more heterochromatin bodies in female somatic interphase cells, but not in male cells. In contrast with the similar phenomenon in mammals, this sex-specific heterochromatin does not function as a dosage compensation mechanism. Most Lepidoptera have a WZ/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism, and the sex chromatin is derived from the univalent W sex chromosome. Sex chromatin is regarded as an indicator of an advanced stage of W chromosome evolution. In species with a Z/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism, loss of the W chromosome is accompanied by loss of the female-specific heterochromatin. Since sex chromatin can be discerned easily in interphase nuclei, and especially so in the highly polyploid somatic cells, it is a useful marker for diagnosing chromosomal sex of embryos and larvae, and of identifying sex chromosome aberrations in mutagenesis screens. All species with sex chromatin belong to the Ditrysia, the main clade of Lepidoptera that contains more than 98% of all extant species. Sex chromatin has not been reported for clades that branched off earlier. The nonditrysian clades share this character with Trichoptera, a sister group of the Lepidoptera. We propose that Lepidoptera originally had a Z/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism like Trichoptera; the WZ/ZZ sex chromosome mechanism evolved later in the ditrysian branch of Lepidoptera. Secondary losses of the W chromosome account for the sporadically occurring Z/ZZ sex chromosome systems in ditrysian families. The lepidopteran sex chromatin, therefore, appears to mirror the full evolutionary life cycle of a univalent sex chromosome from its birth through heterochromatinization to sporatic loss.
3035646|According to a recent hypthesis, menstruation evolved to protect the uterus oviducts from sperm-borne pathogens by dislodging infected endometrial tissue and delivering immune cells to the uterine cavity. This hypothesis predicts the following: (1) uterine pathogens should be more prevalent before menses than after menses, (2) in the life histories of females, the timing of menstruation should track pathogen burden, and (3) in primates, the copiousness of menstruation should increase with the promiscuity of the breeding system. I tested these predictions and they were not upheld by the evidence. I propose the alternative hypothesis that the uterine endometrium is shed/resorbed whenever implantation fails because cyclical regression and renewal is energetically less costly than maintaining the endometrium in the metabolically active state required for implantation. In the regressed state. oxygen consumption (per mg protein/h) in human endometria declines nearly sevenfold. The cyclicity in endometrial oxygen consumption is one component of the whole body cyclicity in metabolic rate caused by the action of the ovarian steroids on both endometrial and nonendometrial tissue. Metabolic rate is at least 7% lower, on average, during the follicular phase than during the luteal phase in women, which signifies an estimated energy savings of 53 MJ over four cycles, or nearly six days worth of food. Thus, the menstrual cycle revs up and revs down, economizing on the energy costs of reproduction. This economy is greatest during the nonbreeding season and other periods of amenorrhea when the endometrium remains in a regressed state and ovarian cycling is absent for a prolonged period of time. Twelve months of amenorrhea save an estimated 130 MJ, or the energy required by one woman for nearly half a month. By helping females to maintain body mass, energy economy will promote female fitness in any environment in which fecundity and survivorship is constrained by the food supply. Endometrial economy may be of ancient evolutionary origin because similar reproductive structures, such as the oviduct of lizards, also regress when a fertilized egg is unlikely to be present. Regression of the endometrium is usually accompained by reabsorption, but in some species as much as one third of the endometrial and vascular tissue is shed as the menses. Rather than having and adaptive basis in ecology or behavior, variation in the degree of menstrual bleeding in primates shows a striking correlation with phylogeny. The endometrial microvasculature is designed to provide the blood supply to the endometrium and the placenta, and external bleeding appears to be a side effect of endometrial regression that arises when there is too much blood and other tissue for complete reabsortion. The copious bleeding of humans and chimps can be attributed to the large size of the uterus relative to adult female size and to the design of the microvasculature in catarrhines.
3035921|A possible scenario on the origin of elementary hoxoses (fructose, glucose, mannose, and galactose) is proposed: (1) Formol reaction, an autocatalytic polymerization reaction, occurred on the primitive earth under weakly alkaline conditions to generate various small molecular compounds. (2) Among them, glyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone undergo aldol condensation to produce stable ketohexoses, fructose and sorbose. (3) Subsequently, Lobry de Bruyn rearrangement converts fructose into stable aldohexoses, glucose, and mannose. (4) Thus, prebiotically synthesized "first triplet" hexoses would have been available for utilization by ancestral primitive microorganisms. (5) After the development of biochemical pathways, various saccharides, including galactose, were biosynthesized from glucose and mannose as "bricolage products"; the utilization of galactose as a key recognition molecule, based on its distinctive axial 4-OH and its outermost location in glycoconjugates, owing to its late arrival, may have evolved concomitantly with the evolution of multicellular organisms.
3035920|Self-promoting elements (also called ultraselfish genes, selfish genes, or selfish genetic elements) are vertically trasmitted genetic entities that manipulate their "host" so as to promote their own spread, usually at a cost to other genes within the genome. Examples of such elements include meiotic drive genes and cytoplasmic sexatio distorters. The spread of a self-promoting element creates the context for the spread of a suppressor acting whithin the same genome. We may thus say that a genetic conflict exists between different components of the same genome. Here we investigate the properties of such conflicts. First we consider the potential diversity of genomic conflicts and show that every genetic system has potential conflicts. This if followed by analysis of the logic of conflicts. Just as Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) terminology provides a short cut for discussion of much in behavioral ecology, so the language of modifier analysis provides a useful terminology on which to base discussions of conflicts. After defining genetic conflict, we provide a general analysis of the conflicting parties, and note a distinction between competing and conflicting genes. We then provide a taxonomy of possible short- and long-term outcomes of conflicts, noting that potential conflict is an unconstrained system can never be removed, and that the course of evolution owing to conflict is often unpredictable. The latter is most particularly true for strong conflicts in which suppressors may take suprising forms. The possibility of extended conflicts in the form of "arms races" between element and suppressor is illustrated. The peculiar redundancy of these systems is one possible trace of conflict, and others are discussed. That homologous conflicts may find highly different expression is discussed by referring to the mechanistic differences that are thought to underlie the action of the two best-described meiotic drive genes, and by the multiplicity of forms of cytoplasmic sex ratio distorters. The theoretical analysis establishes a logical basis for thinking about conflicts, but fails to establish the importance of conflict in evolution. We illustrate this contentious issue through consideration of some phenomena for whose evolution conflict has been proposed as an important force: the evolution of sex, sex determination, species, recombination, and uniparental inheritance of cytoplasmic genes. In general, it is proposed that conflict may be a central force in the evolution of genetic systems. We conclude that an analysis of conflict and its general importance in evolution is greatly aided by application of the concept of genetic power. We consider the posible components of genetic power and ask whether and how power evolves.
2832133|Adaptation is and has always been a sloppery concept. Even among contemporary evolutionary biologists there is no consensus about how to identify adaptive traits. Most definition of adaptation incorporate elements of history. Among these, some require that adaptive traits be built by natural selection for their current roles. Others take a phylogenetic perspective and require that adaptations be derived relative to traits of antecedent taxa. Still other definitions require evidence of functional design in the biological machinery underlying the trait, implying the trait, implying a history of selective fine-tuning. The historical definition are most useful for addressing questions about evolutionary history like, "What was the phylogenetic trajectory of a phenotype with current utility?," or "How does a trait's current use relate to its original function?" Historical definitions are less useful for addressing questions about phenotype existence like, "Why do certain phenotypes predominate over others in nature?" This is because history-laden definitions often fail to classify as adaptations traits that are maintained by natural selection. Obviously it is important to employ a definition that is appropriate for the research question being pursued. Indeed, the (mis)application of history-laden definitions to questions of phenotype-existence has created the illusion that nonadaptive traits abound in nature and caused widespread about the importance of natural selection in molding phenotypes. To circumvent these problems we propose a nonhistorical definition of adaptation. In our view, an adaptation is a phenotypic variant that results in the highest fitness among a specified set of variants in a given environment. This definition treats adaptation as a relative concept, sets forth operational criteria for identifying the phenotypic traits to which the concept applies, and decouples adaptations from the evolutionary mechanism that generate them. Natural selection theory predicts that among a specific set of alternatives the most adapted phenotype will be the one that predominates in a given environment. This is a testable proposition. When it is false the frequency of the trait must be due to nonselective processes such as drift, migration, selection acting on a correlated trait, or recent changes in the environment. Teleonomic demonstrations of adaptation are a special case of our suggested analysis because inferring a trait's "function" implies the application of a specific fitness criterion (e.g., optimal design) to rank alternative phenotypes. The logical structure of our definition allows us to confront five recent challenges to adaptationism, namely that: (1) it is impossible to identify adaptative traits without a knowledge of phylogeny, which can reveal constraints on adaptation, (2) genetic correlations among different traits usually prevent or retard ascent toward adaptive peaks, (3) "developmental constraints" limit the operation of natural selection, (4) the complex and highly ordered phenotypes studied by adaptationists can be explained most parsimoniously as manifestations of simple mechanisms, and without reference to natural selection, and (5) it is impossible to study the adaptive significance of human behavior because natural selection has not had time to operate on humans in our "changed" environments. We show that these challenges rest on inadequate specification of the components of adaptation.
2832134|The control of clutch size is examined is several taxa of birds and the concept that species can be classified as determinate or indeterminate layers is reeveluated. Determinate layers are defined as species in which extrinsic factors perveiced by the female, such as eggs present in the nest, are not involved in determining either the number of large yolky follicles produced by the ovary or the number of follicles ovulated (e.g., albatrosses, auks and pigeons). In some species, the number of large yolky follicles produced is unrelated to extrinsic factors, but contact between the female and her eggs usually reduces the number of follicles ovulated and hence the clutch size. These species are classified as semideterminate layers (penguins). Among indeterminate layers, both the number of large yolky follicles and the number of follicles ovulated depend upon extrinsic factors. Three categories of indeterminate layers are recognized, depending upon the nature of the stimulus that stops egg laying. The first is tactile contact between the female's brood patch and the eggs; it is the most common. This category may be subdivided according to the number of eggs required to stimulate the brood patch. In some species egg removal leaving no egg in the nest is required for the female to lay extra eggs (contact with a Single egg sufficient: type S, Woodpeckers, plovers); other may lay extra eggs even if an egg is left in the nest (contact with Multiple eggs required: type M, kestrels, hawks, grebes). The second category of stimuli causing laying to cease, observed in parasitic birds, is probably the lack of suitable host nests. These visual cues trigger either reabsorption of all large yolky follicles (Discontinuous production of large yolky follicles: type D, parasitic cuckoos) or simply reabsortion of one or two large yolky follicles (Continuous production of large yolky follicles: type C, parasitic cowbirds). The third category, used by megapodes, could be thermal information derived from their nest mounds. Each category can be discriminated by observations on egg laying and appropriate egg removal experiments. Anatomical data from laying females are also a valuable source of information. The endocrine mechanism of clutch-size determination is still poorly understood; it has been linked to the onset of incubation behavior and in particular to a rise in prolactin levels. I argue that the rise in prolactin levels associated with incubation behavior might play a role in the determination of clutch size in tactile indeterminate layers, but not in determinate layers. Inhibition of gonadotrophin secretion constitutes another hypothesis that might be relevant whatever the mode of clutch-size control. Finally, a new hypothesis is proposed to account for the evolution of the control of clutch size in birds that relates determinate and indeterminate laying patterns to food availability at the time of egg formation, and variability of the best time for raising young.
3037250|Richard Levins's 1966 article "The strategy of model building in population biology" is an extremely influential analysis of the nature of scientific model building. His claims that model building involves a necessary trade-off among generality, realism and precision, and that truths about nature can be revealed by finding "robust theorems" are important and deserve careful scrutiny. We clarify the concepts of generality, realism and precision and argue that there is no necessary conflict among them. We also examine the idea of robustness and conclude that it lacks proper definition and that its bearing on the question of whether a proposition is true is highly problematic. Accordingly, we believe that neither of Levins's claims should be accepted.
3037249|Pragnancy has commonly been viewed as a cooperative interaction between a mother and her fetus. The effects of natural selection on genes expressed in fetuses, however, may be opposed by the effects of natural selection on genes expressed in mothers. In this sense, a genetic conflict can be said to exist between maternal and fetal genes. Fetal genes will be selected to increase the transfer of nutrients to their fetus, and maternal genes will be selected to limit transfers in excess of some maternal optimum. Thus a process of evolutionary escalation is predicted in which fetal actions are opposed by maternal countermeasures. The phenomenon of genomic imprinting means that a similar conflict exists within fetal cells between genes that are expressed when maternally derived, and genes that are expressed when paternally derived. During implantation, fetally derived cells (trophoblast) invade the maternal endometrium and remodel the endometrial spiral arteries into low-resistance vessels that are unable to constrict. This invasion has three consequences. First, the fetus gains direct access to its mother's arterial blood. Therefore, a mother cannot reduce the nutrient content of blood reaching the placenta without reducing the nutrient supply to her own tissues. Second, the volume of blood reaching the placenta becomes largely independent of control by the local maternal vasculature. Third, the placenta is able to release hormones and other substances directly into the maternal circulation. Placental hormones, including human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and human placental lactogen (hPL), are predicted to manipulate maternal physiology of fetal benefit. For example, hPL is proposed to act on maternal prolactin receptors to increase maternal resistance to insulin. If unopposed, the effect of hPL would be to maintain higher blood glucose levels for longer periods after meals. This action, however, is countered by increased maternal production of insulin. Gestational diabetes develops if the mother is unable to mount an adequate response to fetal manipulation. Similarly, fetal genes are predicted to enhance the flow of maternal blood through the placenta by increasing maternal blood pressure. Preeclampsia can be interpreted as an attempt by a poorly nourished fetus to increase its supply of nutrients by increasing the resistance of its mother's peripheral circulation.
2829967|The concept of the gene is and has always been a continously evolving one. In order to provide a structure for understanding the concept, its history is divided into classical, neoclassical, and modern periods. The classical view prevailed into the 1930s, and conceived the gene as an indivisible unit of genetic transmission, recombination, mutation, and function. The discovery of intragenic recombination in the early 1940s and the establishment of DNA as the physical basis of inheritance led to the neoclassical concept of the gene, which prevailed until the 1970s. In this view the gene (or cistron, as it was called then) was subdivided into its constituent parts, mutons and recons, indetified as nucleotides. Each cistron was believed to be responsible for the synthesis of a single mRNA and hence for one polypeptide. This colinearity hypothesis prevailed from 1955 to the 1970s. Starting from the early 1970s, DNA technologies have led to the modern period of gene conceptualization, wherein none of the classical or neoclassical criteria are sufficient to define a gene. Modern discoveries include those of repeated genes, split genes and alternative splicing, assembled genes, overlapping genes, transposable genes, complex promoters, multiple polyadenylation sites, polyprotein genes, editing of the primary transcript, and nested genes. We are currently left with a rather abstract, open, and generalized concept of the gene, even though our comprehension of the structure and organization of the genetic material has greatly increased.
2831192|Inference procedures integrate past experience with current sense data to permit perception of the content of the sense data as objects and events. This notion impinges on views of knowledge. The dominant Western view that knowledge is "justified, true belief" is orthogonal to the classical secular view prevalent in ancient India that "knowledge is a means for successful behavior." Both views rely on inference from empirical observations, and both use formalisms and schema for "valid" inference to delineate assumptions, to evaluate liability of conclusions, to assure validity of the knowledge base, and to identify bases for controversies. The view that knowledge is successful behavior explicitly deemphasizes the a priori, while emphasizing the veridical character of the evidence rather than its "truth value." This approach is often used to deal with the unknown in unfolding events because it increases the chances of success.
2831191|Sperm are vectors of disease. During mammalian insemination bacteria from the male and female genitalia regularly cling to sperm tails and are transported to the uterus. I propose that menstruation functions to protect the uterus and oviducts from colonization by pathogens. Menstrual blood exerts mechanical pressure on uterine tissue, forcing it to shed, and delivers large numbers of immune cells throughout the uterine cavity, directly combating pathogens. The mechanisms of menstruation show evidence of adaptive design. Spiral arteries that open to the lining of the uterus trigger menstruation by abruptly constricting, which deprives the local tissue of blood, and then abruptly dilating, which causes blood to force loose the necrotic tissue. Menstrual blood flows easily, unlike blood at most wound sites, because it lacks the normal level of clotting factors. Overt (externally visible) or covert (not externally visible) menstruation has been documented in many species of primate, including Old World monkeys and apes, New World monkeys, and prosimians, as well as in various species of bad and insectivore. The antipathogen hypothesis predicts that: (1) menstruation (overt or covert) is either universal or nearly so among mammalian species; (2) if the latter, then the existence of menstruation among species varies inversely with the probability of becoming pregnant per estrous cycle (menstruation would be especially adaptive in species with significantly less than 100% probability of becoming pregnant per estrous cycle); (3) among menstruating species, the average degree of menstrual bleeding for a given species is a function of the factors affecting menstruation's costs and benefits-in particular, the degree of bleeding is positively correlated with the average body size and sexually transmitted pathogen load of that species (profuse bleeding would be especially adaptive in large-bodied species with either promiscuous breeding systems or continuous sexual receptivity); and (4) other forms of normal uterine bleeding-proestrous, periovulatory, implantation, and postpartum-also have an antipathogen function. The hypothesis presented in this article has implications for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of uterine infection and, therefore, for the prevention of pathogen-induced infertility. The uterus appears to be designed to increase its bleeding if it detects infection: Human uteri that become infected (or otherwise inflamed) bleed more profusely, bleed on more days per cycle, and often bleed intermittently throughout the cycle. Thus artificially curtailing infection-induced uterine bleeding may be contraindicated.
2824293|This review considers the behavioral, ecological, and reproductive characteristics of mammals exhibiting monogamy, i.e., mating exclusivity. From a discussion of the life histories of selected species of monogamous primates, carnivores, rodents and ungulates, several trends emerge. Two forms of monogramy occur, Type I, facultative, and Type II, obligate. The selective pressures leading to these two forms of monogamy may have been different. Facultative monogamy may result when a species exists at very low densities, with males and females being so spaced that only a single member of the opposite sex is available for mating. Obligate monogamy appears to occur when a solitary female cannot rear a litter without aid from conspecifics, but the carrying capacity of the habitat is insufficient to allow more than one female to breed simultaneosuly within the same home range. Within both types of monogamy, the following traits are typically seen: (1) adults show little sexual dimorphism either physically or behaviorally; (2) the adult male and female exhibit infrequent socio-sexual interactions except during the early stages of pair bond formation. Additional trends specific to mammals exhibiting obligate monogamy are: (1) the young exhibit delayed sexual maturation in the presence of the parents, and thus only the adult pair breeds; (2) the older juveniles aid in rearing young siblings; and (3) the adult male (father) aids in the rearing of young by any or all of the following: carrying, feeding, defending, and socializing offspring.
2824292|The behavioral characteristics of territorial ungulates are reviewed and compared with non-territorial species in terms of social distribution, spatial dispersion, and interaction patterns. Territoriality is related proximally to dominance and ultimately to mating exhancement. Alternative male mating strategies are categorized. Selective gains are estimated by the potential mating enhancement factor (PMEF) and costs by reduced chances of survival. The likely lifetime mating enhancement (LLME) resulting from territorial versus roving/rank dominance strategies are calculated for model populations. Ecological conditions favoring territoriality are discussed, and a comparison is made with territorial systems in other animal groups. There is a need for more empirical data.
2823251|Two sets of evolutionary phenomena find no explanation through current theory. for the static pehnomena (such as homology, homonomy, sistematic weight, and 'Type') there is no causal base, although these principles are responsible for all phenomena of predictable order in the living world. The dynamic phenomena (such as homodynamy, coadaptation, parallel evolution, orthogenesis, Cartesian transformation, typostrophy, heteromorphosis, systemic mutation, and spontaneous atavism) have no causal explanation, although they are responsible for all directed phenomena in macroevolution. These phenomena share one unifying principle which can be explained by a system theory of evolution, based on, but extending, the current synthetic theory. This system theory envisages feedback conditions between genotype and phenotype by which the chances of successful adaptation increase if the genetic units, by insertion of superimposed genes, copy the functional dependencies of those phene structrues for which they code. This positive feedback of the adaptive speed (or probability) within a single adaptive direction is compensated by negative feedback in most of the alternative directions. The negative feedback operates as selection no by environmental but by systemic conditions developed by the organization of the organism. The consequences are an imitatively organized system of gene interactions, the rehabilitation of classical systematics, the reality of the "natural system," and, in general, the resolution of the contradiction between neodarwinists and their critics, between reductionists and holists, between "a priori" and "a posteriori" views, between idealism and materialism, and between the notions of freedom and of purpose in evolution.
2823252|The population interaction termed biological exploitation includes what has formely been called predation, as well as other interactions in which one population takes advantage of another (e.g., grazing, parasitism, batesian Mimicry). An instantaneous, deterministic theory using graps of the properties of difficult and even unknown autonomous nonlinear differential equation systems has been developed to simplify greatly the task of understanding the dynamics of such systems and of predicting qualitative properties of their solutions. This review shows how the theory may be used to account for some of the observed dynamics of well-known laboratory sistems including their oscillatory periods and neighborhood stability. It also extends the theory to cover situations where the predator prefers to attack weak or otherwise vulnerable victims, In this case, an upper limit is shown to be added to victim oscillations which can serve to promote the survival probability of the system despite the fact that it may diminish the system's ability to return to a steady state following perturbation. Finally, the theory is applied to the problem of management of a pest by biocides. An important result of earlier predation theory, which has tended to be discarded because of the oversiplifications in that work, is shown to hold in many of the more realistic situations described by graphical exploitation theory: addition of a biocide can actually increase the average population densities of the species one intended to attack. The principle at work here may well account for some modern instances of crop-pest population explosions, and could have helped to predict which pests were likely candidates for control by chemical means and which were not.
2824021|Many of the 200 or so non-protein amino acids synthesized by higher plants are related structurally to the constituents of common proteins. L-Canavanine, the guanidinooxy structural analogue of L-arginine, is representative of this group. It has provided valuable insight into the biological effects and the mode of action of non-protein amino acids which act as analogues of the protein amino acids. The arginyl-tRNA synthetases of numerous canavanine-free species charge canavanine, and canavanine is subsequently incorporated into the nascent polypeptide chain. Production of canavanine-containing proteins ultimately can disrupt critical reactions of RNA and DNA metabolism as well as protein synthesis. Canavanine also affects regulatory and catalytic reactions of arginine metabolism, arginine uptake, formation of structural components, and other cellular processes. In these ways, canavanine alters essential biochemical reactions and becomes a potent antimetabolite of arginine in a wide spectrum of species. These deleterious properties of canavanine render it a highly toxic secondary plant constituent that probably functions as an allelochemic agent that deters the feeding activity of phytophagous insects and other herbivores.
2824020|Beginning with Emlen (1966) and MacArthur and Pianka (1966) and extending through the last ten years, several authors have sought to predict the foraging behavior of animals by means of mathematical models. These models are very similar,in that they all assume that the fitness of a foraging animal is a function of the efficiency of foraging measured in terms of some "currency" (Schoener, 1971) -usually energy- and that natural selection has resulted in animals that forage so as to maximize this fitness. As a result of these similarities, the models have become known as "optimal foraging models"; and the theory that embodies them, "optimal foraging theory." The situations to which optimal foraging theory has been applied, with the exception of a few recent studies, can be divided into the following four categories: (1) choice by an animal of which food types to eat (i.e., optimal diet); (2) choice of which patch type to feed in (i.e., optimal patch choice); (3) optimal allocation of time to different patches; and (4) optimal patterns and speed of movements. In this review we discuss each of these categories separately, dealing with both the theoretical developments and the data that permit tests of the predictions. The review is selective in the sense that we emphasize studies that either develop testable predictions or that attempt to test predictions in a precise quantitative manner. We also discuss what we see to be some of the future developments in the area of optimal foraging theory and how this theory can be related to other areas of biology. Our general conclusion is that the simple models so far formulated are supported are supported reasonably well by available data and that we are optimistic about the value both now and in the future of optimal foraging theory. We argue, however, that these simple models will requre much modification, espicially to deal with situations that either cannot easily be put into one or another of the above four categories or entail currencies more complicated that just energy.
2824162|A theory regarding the early evolution of the eukaryotes is presented. It is proposed that the eukaryotes evolved through the successive stages: amoeba, flagellate, sexual flagellate. It is postulated that sexuality emerged only once. A scheme relating evolution of the whiplash and tinsel forms of the flagellum to the evolution of sexuality is presented. It is suggested that sexuality first appeared in organisms capable of producing both forms of the flagellum. The phylogeny supports the hypotheses that the falgellum developed from the spindle system, and that the nucleate algae evolved from protozoa through symbiosis with photosynthetic organisms related to the blue-green bacteria. It is consistent with the hypothesis that the mitochondrion was acquired by symbiosis. The phylogeny provides clearer definitions for kingdoms, and indicates the separation into seven kingdoms, as follows: Monera, Protozoa, Algae, Fungi, Porifera, Plantae, Animalia.
2824163|A review of the literature on vertebrate hybridization reveals the existence of a number of narrow hybrid zones. Three hypotheses have been suggested to explain the occurrence of these zones. The ephemeral-zone hypothesis states that hybridization will end either in speciation or fusion of the hybridizing taxa by means of introgression. The dynamic-equilibrium hypothesis allows the possibility that narrow hybrid zones might be stable: where hybrids are confined to a small area by steep selection gradients, "crystalization" of an antihybridization mechanism might be prevented by naive immigrants from the parental populations eve though hybrids are selected against. The hybrid-superiority hypothesis states that hybrids are more fit than parental phenotypes in some environments. The ephemeral-zone hypothesis fails to explain the antiquity and apparent stability of several hybrid zones. The dynamic-equilibrium hypothesis does not adequately explain the persistence of hybrid populations that do not receive a substantial influx of genes from both parental populations. The hybrid-superiority hypothesis is consistent with the various sizes, shapes, and positions reported for stable hybrid zones because, under this hypothesis, the range of a hybrid population is determined by the range of environmental conditions within which the hybrids are superior. Although there are exceptions, most vertebrate hybrid zones are, in fact, narrow. The hybrid-superiority hypothesis must accommodate this fact. The additional hypothesis is offered that hybrids, in some cases, can succeed in environments where competition from parental phenotypes is weak. Thus, hybrid populations are often found in areas devoid of stable ecological communities. Ecotones are one such area, and I suggest that stable hybrid zones are often narrow because they tend to occur in ecotones which are themselves narrow.
2827868|Since the survival and well-being of humankind is so inextricably bound to our domestic animals and plants, it is important that we understand the domestication process and its biological consequences. The objective of this review is to discuss available information on the biological basis of animal domestication, with particular emphasis on behavior. Domestication concerns adaptation, which is usually to a captive environment and which is achieved by some combination of genetic changes occurring over generations, as well as by environmentally induced changes in development that recur during each generation. Genetic changes will occur in population of organisms undergoing domestication as a result of both chance and of any shift in selection pressures accompanying the transition from nature to captivity. In addition to changes in gene frequencies, adaptation to the captive environment may be facilitated by certain recurring environmental events or management practices that influence the development of specific biological traits. It is difficult to generalize about the effects of domestication on either genetic or phenotypic variability because of different selection pressures on different traits and species. However, it is apparent that, with respect to animal behavior, domestication has influenced the quantitative rather than qualitative nature of the response. The postulated loss of certain behavior patterns under domestication can usually be explained by a heightening of response thresholds above normal levels of stimulation. Conversely, lowered thresholds of response often can be accounted for by constant exposure to certains forms of stimulation. Certain behaviors may have been altered because of man's role as a buffer between the animal and its environment. One of the more important behavioral changes accompanying the domestication process is a reduction in responsiveness to changes in the animal's environment. Food provisioning and man's control over the breeding process have reduced competition for important resources, and thus have permitted selection for the retention of juvenile characteristics (neotony). Feralization is the domestication process in reverse. The capacity of domestic animals to survive in nature may depend on the extent to which the gene pool of the population has been altered during the domestication process. "Natural" gene pools should be protected when breeding wild animals in captivity for the purpose of reestablishing free-living natural populations.
2827869|Echolocation is polyphyletic among vertebrates and is currently known from some species in the orders Caprimulgiformes, Apodiformes, Chiroptera, Cetacea, Pinnipedia, Rodentia, and Primates. The ability to echolocate permits an animal to find roosts, food, or both, irrespective of light conditions. Microchiropterans are unique in producing echolocation calls that show structured changes in frequency over time; other echolocators rely on broadband clicks. The Microchiroptera are often treated as models for echolocation, since many of them use it to detect flying prey. Nevertheless, certain other species of Microchiroptera do not use echolocation when hunting, but depend in that activity upon vision, sounds emanating from the prey, or olfaction. Some bats capable of echolocation actually cease producing echolocation calls during their attacks on prey, although others do not, even when relying on different cues to find their targets. All Microchiroptera are not obligate echolocators. Playback experiments have demonstrated that echolocation calls serve a communication role in some species of bats. Furthermore, echolocation calls appear to be derived from communication signals, and the early echolocators may have used this mode of orientation to assess background rather than to choose targets, a role still played by the echolocation of birds and shrews. Echolocation divulges a great deal of information about the echolocator itself, and so permits intraspecific and interspecific piracy of information, a consequence that could be inconvenient or fatal. Echolocation has important implications for many aspects of the behavior and ecology of animals that use it.
2828261|The growth rate and final size of developing organs is controlled by organ-intrinsic mechanisms as well as by hormones and growth factors that originate outside the target organ. Recent work on Drosophila imaginal discs and other regenerating systems has led to the conclusion that the intrinsic growth-control mechanism that controls regenerative growth depends on position-specific interactions between cells and their neighbors, and that these interactions also control pattern formation. According to this interpretation, local growth by cell proliferation is stimulated when cells with disparate positional information are confronted as a result of grafting or wound healing. This local growth leads to intercalation of cells with intervening positional values until the positional information discontinuity is eliminated. When all discontinuities have been eliminated from a positional field, growth stops. In this article we consider the possibility that organ growth during normal development may be controlled by an intercalation mechanism similar to that proposed for regenerative growth. Studies of imaginal disc growth are consistent with this suggestion, and in addition they show that the cell interactions thought to control growth are independent of cell lineage. Developing organs of vertebrates also show intrinsic growth-control mechanisms, as demonstrated by the execution of normal growth programs by immature organs that are transplanted to fully growth hosts or to hosts with genetically different growth parameters. Furthermore, these organ-intrinsic mechanisms also appear to be based on position-specific cell interactions, as suggested by the growth stimulation seen after partial extirpation of rearrangement by grafting. In organs of most adult vertebrates, the organ-intrinsic growth-control systems seems to be suppressed as shown by the loss of regenerative ability, although it is clearly retained in the limbs, tails and other organs of salamanders. The clearest example of an extrinsic growth regulator is growth hormone, which plays a dominant role along with insulin-like growth factors, thyroid hormone and sex hormones in supporting the growth of bones and other organs in postnatal mammals. These hormones do not appear to regulate prenatal growth, but other hormones and insulin-like growth factors may be important prenatally. The importance of other growth factors in regulating organ growth in vivo remains to be established. It is argued that both intrinsic and extrinsic factors control organ growth, and that there may be important interactions between the two types of control during development.
2828262|An effort has been made to survey all major publications produced around the world in commemoration of the centennial of Charles Darwin's death. Over seventy publications of collected essays dedicated to the occasion have been identified, as well as over a hundrey symposia, lecture series, special museum exhibits, and miscellaneous other events. These publications and events are presented in an annotated list, by country. Most of the English-language publications that are primarily biological in nature are briefly reviewed so as to indicate their target ardience, significance, and quality. Italy, followed by Spain, then England, France, and the United States, did most to commemorate the centennial. Relatively few centennial publications of activities originated in communist bloc countries, or in Latin America, Africa, Asia, or the British Commonwealth excluding Englad. In the United States, commemorative activities were almost exclusively university-based, a situation indicating that Darwinism is perceived as an essentially academic discipline in America. In continental Europe, sponsorship by a political organization or government was common, with a particular pattern that indicates a prevalent association of Darwinism with leftist political ideologies. This association may have helped to promote interest in the centennial in such countries a Italy and Spain, which currently tolerate a broad spectrum of poltical views. The topics dealth with in commemorative papers from around the world indicate that the association of Darwinism with socialist political ideology is far more pervasive than the English-language centennial literature would suggest. Within any country, there appears to be no correlation at all between those academic institutions that are most active in contemporary evolutionary biology and those that did the most to commemorate the Darwin centennial. This lack of association testifies to both the autonomy and maturity of the "Darwin Industry" outside of biology.
2829683|Myxococcus xanthus is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium which shows complex cell-cell interactions during vegetative growth and fruiting-body formation. In nature, Myxococcus xanthus grows and moves as a large community of food gathering and predatory organisms. Cell-cell contact is maintained throughout vegetative growth and characteristic behaviors are exhibited in the presence of certain stimuli. In addition, cell-cell stimulation can be observed in the movement of cells. Thus there must exist specific chemical signals that help direct the movement of individual cells within the community. The most dramatic behaviors exhibited by Myxococcus xanthus are associated with starvation. Starved cells aggregate and then sporulate within raised mounds. Complex biochemical changes which are part of a developmental program occur in these cells. For example, protein S first appears in the cytoplasmic fraction of cells, and is later translocated to the cell surface where it self-assembles to form a spore surface coat. Another new developmental protein that is synthesized at this time is myxobacterial hemagglutinin, a lectin that accumulates in the shockable fraction of developmental cells and that has been located in distinct patches at the cell poles. This protein may be important in end-to-end associations during cellular aggregation. Cell-cell signalling has also been found to be important during fruiting-body formation. Certain non-fruiting mutants can be stimulated to fruit by wild-type cells or by mutants from a different extracellular complementation group. Analysis of mutants has shown that the developmental program in Myxococcus xanthus appears to have two major components: one controls aggregation; the other regulates sporulation. Links exist between these two components, since some developmental mutants are defective in both functions. The study of cell-cell interactions during vegetative growth and fruiting-body formation in M. xanthus provides an opportunity to analyze complex interactions in a simple model system.
2829684|Contemporary evolutionary thought in France is summarized in a critical review of a number of books published in French between 1967 and 1981 and authored by French-speaking biologists. Sixteen of these books are first discussed individually. A synthesis of major evolutionary concepts, based on an analysis of this literature then follows. Mutation, recombination, chance, natural selection, adaptation, speciation, developmental processes, behavior, macroevolution, Lamarckism, and Darwinism are among the concepts discussed. Evolutionary thought in France is often held to lag behind that of biologists elsewhere. This view appears unfounded. With only a few exceptions, the authors of books (or chapters in books) published in French on evolutionary topics in the last fifteen years are fully conversant with modern evolutionary thinking and have espoused the synthetic theory. French-speaking students seeking material to read as part of a course of lectures on evolutionary subjects have the choice of several excellent textbooks that complement each other nicely. The authors of this literature are actively angaged in research in evolutionary biology. The mistaken notion that French-speaking biologists hold antiquated ideas about evolution must be due to the fact that these biologists rarely publish the results of their work in English in the journals considered by most biologists to be the standard avenues of publication. It is hoped that this paper will help English-speaking evolutionists who do not read French to become better acquainted with evolutionary thinking in France. The suggestion is made that French biologists who work on evolutionary topics should start a French Society for the Study of Evolution and should publish a journal as an outlet for the results of their work.
2827008|The ecological and genetic correlates of parthenogenesis are clarified by focusing upon two of the major challenges that confront a newly arisen parthenogen: the genetic disruption that results from backcrosses with sexual relatives, and the evolution of a highly generalized genotype. Both of these factors have been ignored in previous theories of the evolution of reproductive systems. Yet, the geographic ranges, ecological characteristics, elevated ploidy levels, and hybrid origins of many parthenogens, as well as the widespread suppression of recombination in automicts, are consistent with expectations derived from the destabilizing hybridization and general-purpose genotype hypotheses. Whereas the support for these hypotheses is broad, much of the evidence is circumstantial; experimental tests would allow an evaluation of the proposed hypotheses and the more traditional alternatives based on differential colonization, competitive, and coevolutionary abilities. An appreciation of the stringent requirements for a successful transition to parthenogenesis may help to explain its uneven phylogenetic distribution. The relevance of parthenogenesis to the biological control of pest species also requires attention.
2827007|The existence of a method of cellular self/non-self recognition seems to be critical for the efficient functioning of all metozoans. In the vertebrates, self/non-self discrimination by the immune system is to a large extent achieved by means of antibody molecules that are specific for foreign determinants. This article considers how, in the absence of antibody, invertebrate animals might recognize and eliminate foreign material. The evidence which indicates that phagocytic cells are involved in the removal of foreign material from the tissues of both coelomate and acoelomate invertebrates is discussed. The removal of particles appears to be selective, the selection occuring at the cell surface. The evidence indicates that some invertebrates may possess a capacity for specific recognition of self, and hence it is argued that the simplest mechanism of ensuring self-tolerance is one where self is specifically recognized. Nevertheless, a few studies have indicated that some invertebrates may utilize receptors on the surfaces of phagocytic cells, or serum opsonins, or both systems to select foreign particles that are to be phagocytosed. In a couple of instances, the opsonic activity seems to be attributable to agglutinin molecules present in the hemolymph of these invertebrates. In order to ensure self-tolerance in situations where opsonins or phagocyte receptors bind self cells in addition to foreign particles-i.e., where these molecules bind to a common determinant on cell surfaces-a two-signal controlling mechanism is envisaged. The adhesion of particles to a phagocyte by means of opsonins or phagocyte receptors, in such a case, could stimulate ingestion (signal 1) unless the phagocyte simultaneously received a "don't kill" signal (signal 2) resulting from the occupancy of its self-recognition receptors. Support for aspects of this model is found in the literature, although studies capable of withstanding critical analysis are limited.
2821184|Kin-selection theory (Hamilton's "genetical theory") explains how aid that is self-sacrificing (in terms of classical individual fitness), or "altruism," can evolve if sufficiently beneficial to relatives. It is discussed here in order to clarify the meaning of kin selection and inclusive fitness (the total reproductive valve of an individual, both its production of offspring and effects on the reproduction of relatives). Hamilton's condition K > 1/r, the relationship of benefit/cost and relatedness necessary for advantageous altruism, is reformulated so as to be applicable to altruism by descendents, and from the point of view of any member of a population (e.g., affected parties other than the altruist). A General expression is derived which defines inclusive fitness in terms of a classical and a kinship component. A unit of inclusive fitness-"offspring equivalents"-is defined. An index of the liklihood that altruism will occur in different social and ecological situations. K
2821185|Previous theories relating the origin of feathers to flight or to heat conservation are considered to be inadequate. There is need for a model of feather evolution that gives attention to the function and adaptive advantage of intermediate structures. The present model attempts to reveal and to deal with, the spectrum of complex questions that must be considered. In several genera of modern lizards, scales are elongated in warm climates. It is argued that these scales act as small shields to solar radiation. Experiments are reported that tend to confirm this. Using lizards as a conceptual model, it is argued that feathers likewise arose as adaptations to intense solar radiation. Elongated scales are assumed to have subdivided into finely branched structures that produced a heat-shield, flexible as well as long and broad. Associated muscles had the function of allowing the organism fine control over rates of heat gain and loss: the specialized scales or early feathers could be moved to allow basking in cool weather or protection in hot wheather. Subdivision of the scales also allowed a close fit between the elements of the insulative integument. There would have been mechanical and thermal advantages to having branches that interlocked into a pennaceous structure early in evolution, so the first feathers may have been pennaceous. A versatile insulation of movable, branched scales would have been a preadaptation for endothermy. As birds took to the air they faced cooling problems despite their insulative covering because of high convective heat loss. Short glides may have initially been advantageous in cooling an animal under heat stress, but at some point the problem may have shifted from one of heat exclusion to one of heat retention. Endothermy probably evolved in conjuction with flight. If so, it is an unnecessary assumption to postulate that the climate cooled and made endothermy advantageous. The development of feathers is complex and a model is proposed that gives attention to the fundamental problems of deriving a branched structure with a cylindrical base from an elongated scale.
2821426|This paper discusses the interactions between the large and medium-sized marsupials, the introduced ruminant domestic stock, and the environment in the arid zone of Australia. The grazing of sheep and cattle has produced suitable subclimax pastures which today favor two sympatric kangaroos but not the smaller bandicoots and wallabies. Tall grass tussocks used as shelter by the latter have been grazed down by the ruminants, and replaced by "marsupial lawns" or xeric spinifex, depending on locality, thereby improving the food supplies for the plains kangaroo and the hill kangaroo, respectively. It is argued, however, that even these smaller marsupials benefited originally from the new grazing regime. Patchy grazing of the grasslands probably created edge effects and other early seral changes which improved the food supplies while leaving adequate shelter. Continued grazing by increasingly large numbers of sheep and cattle ultimately and critically removed the shelter and, therefore, eliminated the bandicoots and wallabies. There is evidence that the plains kangaroo, though generally abundant at the present time, in vulnerable to competitive displacement by sheep, cattle, rabbits, and, in one region, by the hill kangaroo when it invades the plains. The plains kangaroo with its diet of green herbage is most threatened during droughts because the other herbivores have finer-grained diets. Like the bandicoots and wallabies the plains kangaroo in at least two localities appears to have first increased in numbers and then decreased. Sheep and cattle numbers have generally done the same. It is postulated, therefore, that there may not be two opposing response curves for the large and medium-sized marsupials to the ruminant invasion of the inland plains, but, in the long run, only one: and initial numerical increase and then decline. Only the time-scale is different, taking 50 years or more for the plains kangaroo, but perhaps half that time or less for the bandicoots and wallabies. The hill kangaroo may be the ultimate winner because it requires the least nitrogen, and the spinifex it eats during drought has spread as part of the subclimax created by ruminants.
2821425|The publications of fifty years (1925-1974) of the history of biology and embryology are surveyed. In America, the earliest background for work during this period was provided by the collectors, mainly physicians, of books into extensive private libraries. The collectors, for instance Osler, Cushing, and Fulton in this country and Geoffrey Keynes abroad, became expert technical bibliographers during the early part of the half-century under consideration. High standards for medical, thus biological history, insofar as these fields overlap, were also set earlier by Sudhoff's Institut fur Geschichte der Medizin in Leipzig, and American historical studies benefited when Sigerist came from Leipzig to Baltimore in the early 1930's. Textbooks of medical history are omitted from discussion here, but a number of more or less general histories of biology published within the specified period are briefly evaluated. The discussion next turns to histories of embryology, general and special. Recent monographs on the classical embryologist, Wolff and von Baer, are enumerated, as are a number of biographies and autobiographies of important embryologists published here or abroad during our half-century. Then general histories of embryology are discussed, and finally some specialized ones. Needham, Roger, and Adelmann are singled out as the most important contributors to the history of embryology, in the West, during the period covered. Few of the contributors to the history of biology and medicine during the years of 1925 through 1974 were trained as historians while students. It is concluded that the History of Science Society has performed an important contribution in professionalizing the history of biology and embryology, but it is pointed out that a great new challenge faces it in the necessity to counteract anti-historical and anti-intellectual moods and movements of today.
2821891|1. D. melanogaster and D. simulans are sibling species; they are morphologically almost identical and genetically very similar. Whereas their sexual behavior patterns are qualitatively similar, hybrids are rarely produced and when they are, they are sterile. 2. Although not all data are in agreement, D. melanogaster generally exhibits more chromosomal, enzyme, and protein polymorphism than does D. simulans. Utilizin this relationship, as well as arguments presented in the literature, one can argue for an association between genetic variability and level of ecological heterogeneity. This association is found for two major environmental variables, temperature and light dependence. 3. On a seasonal basis, D. melanogaster achieves large population numbers early in the summer, as D. simulans does in the autumn. The ratio of D. melanogaster to D. simulans increases with temperature and more importantly, with temperature fluctuation. Macroenvironmental temperature is an important factor involved in numerical changes within the two species. Both species from Brisbane, Queensland, are genetically heterogeneous for resistance to desiccation, with additive genetic effects and directional dominance for resistance, whereas at Melbourne, Victoria, D. melanogaster is similar, but the genetic architecture of D. simulans is additive only. Desiccation resistance in the D. simulans Melbourne population varies cyclically on an annual basis but not in the other populations-apparently different genotypes are selected differentially at different times of the year. Between-species generalizations, as in (2) above, are therefore made difficult because of variations within species. 4. From collections at a vineyard and maturation wine cellar coupled with subsequent laboratory experiments, it is clear that an environment in which D. melanogaster occurs exclusive of D. simulans is one of an alcohol-associated resource. On the other hand, in certain places D. simulans has displaced D. melanogaster, for reasons as yet unknown. 5. In the laboratory, a number of experiments at the intraspecific and interspecific levels show differences in fitness-associated traits, such as viability at different stages of the life cycle, oviposition sites, and pupation sites. The results are difficult to interpret, often being dependent upon strain, temperature, or level of competition. Studies over a series of temperatures assessing fitness parameters for many strains of both species are needed before extrapolation to the natural environment is possible. The same problem occurs when population-cage competition experiments betweeen the two species are considered, although some of these experiments have shown that competition itself is controlled by natural selection. 6. The differences between the two species are, in general, quantitative rather than qualitative, so that, with the exception of alcohol, both species use rather similar environmental resources. The potential for rapid increases in the spring suggests that both species are more r strategists than K strategists. In the wild, while some niches, such as alcohol-associated resources, can be defined, it is imperative to define the resources used in nature in order to achieve a more complete comparative evolutionary biology of the two species. The value of the two species in linking behavior, ecology, and genetics is only just now being realized after over half a century of studying them exclusively in various laboratory containers.
2821890|Electron microscopical studies of a morphologically diverse, coccoid, presumably late Proterozoic blue-green alga are here reported. They show, together with light microscopy, that the form studied is widespread in the Cordilleran geosyncline, extend the record of well-defined endosporangia perhaps 700 million years into the past, and reveal previously unrecorded ultrastructural details. Coming from northeastern Utah, southwestern Alberta, and east central Alaska, these minute fossils belong to the recently described, morphologically diverse taxon Sphaerocongregus variabilis Moorman, are related to living entophysalidaceans, and have affinities with both the chroococcalean and chamaesiphonalean cyanophytes. Included in the morphological modes displayed by this alga are individual unicells, coenobial clusters of unicells, and a range of endosporangia comparable to those described for living entophysalidaceans. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy reveal that the endospores are commonly embedded in a vesicular (once gelatinousand mucopolysaccharoidal?) matrix, that some of them show what appears to be a bilaminate or perhaps locally multilaminate wall structure, and that some remain together to mature as coenobial clones or "colonies." This Information is combined with published knowledge of living forms to place our fossils in taxonomic context and to attempt to visualize the phylogeny of their eucaryotic descendants.
2822255|In the tropics, where the majority of social wasp species and the greates diversity of nest architecture occur, predation by ants on the brood in the nest is believed to be a major force in nest evalution. Tropical social wasps can be divided into two major groups, according to the type of nest and type of defensive behavior evolved against ants. The first of these includes the genera Polistes, Mischocyttarus, Belonogaster, Parapolybia, and Ropalidia (except the subgenus Icarielia), all of which construct small uncovered nests consisting of a single comb of cells suspended from a petiole built up of a tough material of glandular origin. Mischocytraus, Polistes, and probably the other members of this complex smear the petiole with a glandular secretion that has ant-repellent properties. The species in this adaptive zone form small colonies that are founded by one or a few fecundated females (queens). This type of defense is well adapted to solitary founding because it is equally effective whether the queen is on the nest or off on a foraging trip. The second group includes the remining genera of tropical Vespidae, most of which build enclosed nests. It is proposed that the crucial advantage of the envelope enclosing the nest is that is greatly restricts access by ants to the brood, and thus facilitates detection and removal of approaching ants. Such active defense calls for large numbers of workers, some of which station themselves around the entrance where they serve as "guards." The genera in this complex found colonies as swarms consisting of several queens and many workers. The swarm in particularly adaptive during colony founding in that it provides the large numbers of worker necessary to guard the broad access to the young brood before the workers emerge. In smaller nests, selection for cryptic configurations, probably in response to vertebrate predations, is evedent, whereas in larger nests there will be stronger selection for more economical comb configuration. Several ways of evolving larger petiolate nests are considered. A unique method of stacking combs by treating the envelope of one comb as a fondation for the cells of the next occurs in several genera. This method of construction creates structural problems which have been solved by the evolution of new construction techniques. The arguments pointing to the strong role of ant predation in the evolution of tropical social wasps can be extended to account in part for certain major patterns in the geographical distribution of social wasps. The Vespinae appear to be adapted to temperate regions by virtue of their monogynous colony founding and their large fat-laden queens. Their apparent lack of effective means of defending the brood against ants before any workers emerge may be what keeps them out of the tropics, where ant predation is largely seasonal. In many tropical genera the swarm provides numerous "guards" which actively defend the brood during the vulnerable early stages of colony development. Later, the entrance hole in the envelope provides a narrow, easily guarded access. On the other hand, the swarm appears ill-adapted to surviving the harsh winters of temperate regions and may be what keeps these groups from ocurring much beyond the limits of the tropics. The remaining genera are primarily tropical but range well into temperate regions. Their chemical defense system permits them to succed in the tropics in the face of high ant predation pressure while esssentially retaining the monogynous type of founding that is adaptive where hibernation is necessary.
2822254|About twenty years ago, the belief, traditional among ecologists, that complex natural communities are more stable than simple ones was given formal expression in a way that seemed to offer promise of both precise empirical tests and further theoretical development. The elaboration of theoretical models at first yielded gratifying results suggesting reasons why complex ecological systems should indeed be more stable, but these models suffered from questionable analogies and the use of peculiar and unrealistic mathematical representations. The broad scope of the diversity-stability hypothesis, and its particular implications, elevated it to a position importance in practical debates concerning resource management, pest control, and preservation of natural areas. Observational confirmation of the diversity-stability hypothesis never materialized. In this paper we review the development of the diversity-stability hypothesis, evaluate attempts to support or refute it, and suggest an alternate perspective for interpreting population stability. We conclude that there is no simple relationship between diversity and stability in ecological systems.
2822435|A model is presented to account for the natural selection of what is termed reciprocally altruistic behavior. The model shows how selection can operate against the cheater (non-reciprocator) in the system. Three instances of altruistic behavior are discussed, the evolution of which the model can explain: (1) behavior involved in cleaning symbioses; (2) warning cries in birds; and (3) human reciprocal altruism. Regarding human reciprocal altruism, it is shown that the details of the psychological system that regulates this altruism can be explained by the model. Specifically, friendship, dislike, moralistic aggression, gratitude, sympathy, trust, suspicion, trustworthiness, aspects of guilt, and some forms of dishonesty and hypocrisy can be explained as important adaptations to regulate the altruistic system. Each individual human is seen as possessing altruistic and cheating tendencies, the expression of which is sensitive to developmental variables that were selected to set the tendencies at a balance appropriate to the local social and ecological environment.
2822434|Rice and wheat together provide about three-fourths of the total food-grain supply consumed by man. Because of rapidly increasing population, per capita grain output in the underdeveloped regions of the world delined during the 1940's and 1950's. Fertilizer is a key factor in increasing agricultural production. Recently, several underdeveloped nations made major efforts to increase the use of fertilizer. But traditional varieties of wheat and rice did not respond to fertilizer efficiently. Attempts to breed fertilizer-responsive varieties were generally unsuccessful until plant breders discovered the Chinese rice Dee-geo-woo-gen and the Japanese wheat Norin 10 and used them in breeding programs. This resulted in the development of the semidwarf rice, Taichung Native 1, in 1956 in Taiwan and the semidwarf wheat, Gaines, in 1961 in the U. S. A. The most extensive use of the semidwarfing genes was made by the Mexican wheat program and at the International Rice Research Institute. Several Mexican semidwarf wheats released in the early 1960's revolutionized wheat production in Mexico and contributed to the beginning of similar revolutions elsewhere. The rice variety, Taichung Native 1, made some impact, but the real breakthrough in rice production in Asian tropics came with the release of IR8 in 1966. The success of semidwarf varieties resulted in unprecedented seed exports from Mexico and the Philippines and rapid spread of new seeds in a short period of time. During 1969-70 the new seeds, which were grown on about 20 million hectares (17 million ha in Asia alone), produced a substantial increase in the food-grain production. National yields in Asia which were stagnant for 20 years started rising during the last 5 years. The Philippines became self-sufficient in rice and Pakistan self-sufficient in wheat. Production of wheat in India and of rice in West Pakistan almost doubled during the last 5 years. The semidwarf wheats and rices have begun to make an impact on food production in many other countries. Short stiff straw and short erect leaves appear to be most important attributes of an efficient plant type. Intensive and continued research is needed to capitalize on the potential of the semidwarf plant type by incorporating resistance to diseases and insects. Basic studies leading to new ways to increase yield potential should be made. Although the new strains offer a potential of greatly increased rice and wheat production, the food problem can be effectively solved only if attempts at increasing foo supplies are accompanied by population control.
2822726|The post-1960 geological evidence, and postulations, concerning continental drift are summarized. These, and the newer fossil data, support the existence of a southern Gondwana supercontinent until about the mid-Triassic. There is less agreement about the timing and pattern of the phases of the subsequent break-up; while geologists are in general agreement that the South Atlantic, for example, opened up in the Jurassic or Early Cretaceous, the data derived from the various techniques employed, and the "models" based on them, are in wide disagreement when it comes to the history of India. Biological data relating to continental drift stem from two sources, the fossil record and contemporary biotas. Paleontology tells little about the distribution of the southern land masses during the Jurassic and Cretaceous, although the wide distribution of certain dinosaurs, long a subject for debate (e.g., Matthew, 1915; von Huene and Matley, 1933), argues strongly against the very isolated positions for Australia and India postulated by Dietz and Holden (1970) and others. Contemporary southern biotas, in showing different degrees and levels of relationship, have the potential for providing data on the order of break-up of the major land masses. This is examined. The Late Triassic to Cretaceous evolution of mammals must have been profoundly influenced by the patterns of land distribution at these times; their fossil record, however, is inadequate to provide evidence on this. With the possible exception of the marsupials, the Tertiary and contemporary mammal faunas of each of the southern land masses can be adequately explained on present-day patterns of land distribution in the Hemisphere.
2822727|It is suggested that, because of their relatively simple repertoires of behavior, polychaetes may be particularly useful in behavioral research. An interesting range of responses has already been described in these animals, including those involved in habitat selection, feeding, tube construction, escape from predators, fighting, pairing, swarming, commensalism, and learning. In at least lugworms and some other polychaetes, much of the behavior has been shown to consist of spontaneous cycles of activity triggered by internal pacemakers. So far, little attention has been paid to the role of the central nervous system, but extirpations of parts of it in nereids have produced interesting results. The feature of particular interest in the brains of several polychaete families is the presence of corpora pedunculata. The function of these lobes is unknown, but they are well developed in nereids and polynoids, which lead unusually active lives.
2822074|The origin and evolution of some fundamental adaptations of early vertebrates are examined in terms of theoretical considerations and the limited available data on living and fossil chordates. Special emphasis is given to the question of the interrelatedness of apparently widely different functions in general biological activity and in evolutionary processes. Problems in the evolution of calcified systems and the notochord are discussed in the light of recent advances. A new explanation of the mechanical significance of the heterocercal tail is proposed, along with a revision of its evolution, based on new interpretations of the directionality of the thrust produced by the separate parts of the tail. The respiratory patterns of early fishes are discussed with special reference to the question of the origin of auxiliary earial respiration and it is concluded that lungs were probably an extremely early adaptation of fresh water fishes. Jaw mechanisms are examined and a revised scheme proposed for the evolution of the gnathostome condition, based on the assumption that the early agnathan vertebrates possessed a two-phase ventilating pump capable of producing an essentially continuous flow of water over the gills and that this pattern of ventilation was maintained throughout the intermediate stages in gnathostome evolution. Intracranial kinesis is briefly considered. Finally the pattern of nitrogenous respiration is investigated and its evolution related to the most probable sequence of invasion of freshwater and marine habitats and to the pattern of aquatic versus aerial respiration. Throughout, the functional and evolutionary interrelationships of these and other systems are emphasized, together with the necessity for constant revision of the conceptual framework upon which our interpretations of all data is based.
2822073|Recent experimental information on DNA sequence repetition is reviewed, and the significance of both repetitive and non-repetitive sequence considered. Included are a summary of data on the distribution of genome sizes in animals, new experiments on interspecific DNA homology, the distribution of sequence frequencies, and the interspersion of repetitive sequences within the genome. Aspects of the process of evolution are considered at the level of change in the DNA. the process by which novel structure and function could have arisen during evolution are considered speculatively in terms of the authors' gene regulation theory (Britten and Davidson, 1969).
2822513|The affinities of modern land-living animals are intimately related to the positions and connections of continents, a fact nicely demonstrated by mammalian faunas throughout the world. The zoogeography of modern mammals has roots in the various distributions of mammals during Cenozoic time. In the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras, the relationship between continental positions and tetrapod faunas is reflected by the distributions of extinct amphibians and reptiles. The early Triassic Lystrosaurus fauna, an example of this, originally described from South Africa, is now known in Antarctica, in peninsular India, and in western China. The distributions of this ancient tetrapod fauna, as well as of other later Mesozoic faunas, indicate that the regions in which they now occur were then intimately associated, allowing for the ready intermigrations of land-living vertebrates. This lends strong support to the theory of Gondwanaland, which supposes the southern hemisphere continents plus peninsular India to have been joined into a single supercontinent (the correlative theory of Laurasia supposes a similar connection of northern hemisphere continents), and to the theory of continental drift, which visualizes eventual fragmentation of these supercontinents, the fragments drifting throught time to the positions occupied by the modern continents. The changing relationships of continents due to the break-up of Pangaea (Gondwanaland plus Laurasia) and the drift of the great continental blocks to their present positions, presumably resulted in the shift of tetrapod faunas from the ancient pattern of northern and southern moieties, through intermediate conditions, seen in the dinosaurian faunas of middle and late Mesozoic time, to the zoogeographical distributions of Cenozoic mammals.
2822512|An explanation of certain dental characteristics of metatherian and eutherian mammals is synthesized from ontogenetical, paleontological, and morphological observations. The two therian dental sets represent the two successive Zahnreihen of an as yet unknown therapsid. The molars are serially homologous with the primary Zahnreihe or milk dentition. Generally, molar number decreased from eight or nine in the ancestral therapsid and primitive pantothere to four in the mid-Cretaceous eupantotherian stock. Occasional reversals of this process took place, the addition (and subtraction) always occurring at the posterior end of the molar row. However, the antemolar number has seldom, and perhaps never, increased. Through the Jurassic and well into the Cretaceous, the maximum incisor number probably remained five above and four below. The maximum premolar number remained four in both jaws, although selective pressures favored a gradual retardation in development time of both milk and replacement first premolars. By about the mid-Cretaceous Metatheria-Eutheria dichotomy, this process had resulted in the disappearance of the replacement first premolar. In Metatheria the milk teeth anterior to the fourth premolar were subsequently suppressed to embryonic vestiges, thus vacating the ancestral first premolar position. The metatherian permanent fourth premolar is not "late" in eruption time, for it appears at its proper time relative to the eruption sequence of milk predecessor and molars. The Eutheria retained four premolars until at least the Late Cretaceous, but with the ancestral first premolar position represented only by an unreplaced milk tooth. By this time, eutherians had lost the ancestral fourth molar, which metatherians retained. Moreover, the Eutheria lost a minimum of one, and probably two, upper posterior incisors as well as one lower posterior incisior. The dentally primitive Metatheria, on the other hand, retained the original count of five above and four below. Premolar loss in Mesozoic therians proceeded anterosposteriorly and incisor loss posteroanteriorly. In the Tertiary, however, differing selection pressures on the various widely radiating therian lines often altered these initial sequences.
2822511|Achlorophyllous genera of angiosperms, such as Galeola (Orchidaceae), Leiphaimos (Gentianaceae), and Monotropa (Pyrolaceae), have evolved highly specialized, mycotrophic root systems, along with chlorosis and complex floral morphologies. Productivity rates of most such plants cannot be satisfactorily explained by the saprophytic niche which is often assumed as theirs but is inadequately nutritious. Rather, they parasitize their mycorrhizal fungi. When a mycorrhizal fungus is shared by roots of an achlorophyllous angiosperm an those of a photosynthesizing plant, the former can indirectly parasitize the latter via the connecting mycelium (epiparasitism). The functional mycelial connection between the mycorrhizae of epiparasites and those of associated host trees has been demonstrated by radiotracer techniques. Some epiparasites are very locally distributed. The ecological requirements of their mycorrhizal fungi, such a suitable host trees, may explain much of this localization. A taxonomic survey of the Orchidaceae and Pyrolaceae reveals coherent, continous lines of evolution from green, leafy taxa with fibrous root systems to progressively more chlorotic taxa with reduced root systems. The widely distributed genera Hypopitys and Montropa of north temperate forests represent highly successful occupants of a widespread, mycotrophic-epiparasitic niche for angiosperms.
2822510|The rust fungi are fully parasitic and arose from parasitic ancestors. Heteroecism was evidently universal during their major evolutionary outburst. Thus, the ecology of hosts and parasites was complexly interrelated and profundly influenced the evolution of the rusts. Divergence with their hosts probably has been the chief means of speciation in the rusts. Part of the process, especially in the more advanced groups, has been the initiation of autoecious species on the aecial hosts of parental heteroecious ones. This change may have triggered an evolutionary outburst through partial release from the ecological limits of the heteroecious ancestor. Jumps to hosts of varying taxonomic separation from the ancestral host must have given rise to many species and to some lineages; but few are easily documented. A single example suggests that a hybrid rust may be adapted to a hybrid between its parental hosts; and, if the hybrid host speciates, the rust may do so also.
2826367|The Concept of physiological time is extended from contributions of Adolph, Hill, and Stahl to included a wider range of events in the life histories of mammals and birds. The durations of physiological, developmental, and ecological cycles show nearly parallel exponential relationships to body size (masss
2826369|A unifying concept that appears to provide an understanding of cancer as a fundamental scientific problem is presented. This concept, which was initially developed on the basis of experiments using the relatively uncomplicated plant tumor systems, now appears applicable to animal and human tumors as well. Evidence is provided to show that the tumor problem is fundamentally a problem of anomalous cellular differentiation and that the heritable cellular change that underlies the tumorous state is similar to that which underlies cell specialization occurring during the normal course of development in all higher organisms. Both cellular differentiation and tumorigenesis depend for their expression on the persistent activation of select but, in part, different genes (whether normal, foreing, or both) present in the genome of a cell. Since heritable cellular changes of this kind may be induced by physical, chemical, and biological agents of the most diverse type, and since cells may remain totipotent during the time that they exhibit the tumor phenotype, the results reported here suggest that whether the normal or tumor phenotype is expressed is determined by how the genetic information present in a cell is regulated in the cell. Regulation leading to the establishment and maintenance of the tumorous state may be accomplished in different ways by the different types of oncogenic agents. Thus cancer and related neoplastic diseases appear to have a common underlying heritable cellular change in which the diverse manifestations of the tumorous state commonly observed would simply reflect different expressions of this heritable cellular change.
2826368|Mathematical modeling forms a large part of modern ecological research. This essays argues that it forms too large a part. The uses of modeling are reviewed: models are used to "explain" the functioning of natural ecosystems; they are also used in forecasting, in hypothesis-generation, and as standards of comparison. Although the original task of models was to explain nature, this is the task they perform least well. To compare a model with reality is, in effect, to ask a number of questions simultaneously when they could more profitably be tackled be tackled individually. The search for answers to single "unit" questions, here called "investigating," is more likely than modeling to yield advances in knowledge. It is not easy, as examples show.
2824990|The problem of "missing links" over the years since Darwin's On the Origin of Species is analyzed in the perspective of our increased knowledge of the fossil record and our changing concepts of evolution, geology, and biology. The history of application of evolution theory to the fossil record and the consequences of the conflict of categorical, essential classification and evolutionary continuity are examined, as they relate to the "naive" idea of "missing links." Transitions between taxonomic categories are treated at two levels: the infraspecies-species level, and the supraspecies level. In the latter category case analyses of transitions within and between the major groups of metazoans and metaphytes are made, with special attention to the evidence of origins of groups in the fossil record. Throughout, the impacts on evolutionary theory of changes in knowledge and interpretations of the record of the history of life are considered. The problem of the existence of linkages and phylogenies at the species and generic levels has been much reduced during the last one hundred and twenty years. How this reduction supports or denies Darwin's concepts of phyletic gradualism is still a matter of interpretation of the evidence. At familial and higher levels, the establishment of linkages between categories has been much less successful, and decreasingly so at each successive higher level. Under the very best circumstances, however, morphological and stratigraphically graded transitions between classes and subclasses have been found. At the level of phyla and higher categories, any information on transitions as far as the fossil records is concerned is essentially non-existent. Fairly standard patterns of transitions between high categories can be established on the basis of the optimal cases, and these point up the continuing problems in evolutionary theory as being the interrelationships and integration of micro-evolutionary and macro-evolutionary processes.
2824989|Sexuality includes eroticism. Though its determinants are multivariate and developmentally sequential, most current biological theories arbitrarily exclude social determinants, and vice versa. Developmentally, masculinization is not necessarily synonymous with defeminization, nor feminization with demasculinization. In the development of brain and behavior, behavior that appears to be either male or female may actually be sex-shared but sex-different in the threshold for its expresion. Parent-child bonding is a precursor of subsequent erotosexual pair-bonding. Suppresion of erotosexual rehearsal play in childhood is a precursor of postpubertal and adult erotesexual pathology. The criterion defining the heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual conditions is the sex of the partner with whom a limerent (falling-in-love) pairbond is possible; and there is no evidence that pubertal sex steroids, per se, are responsible for which of the three it will be. The phases of an erotosexual encounter are proception, acception, and conception. The disorders of proception, manifested in both imagery and practice, are the paraphilic syndromes (formerly known as perversions). The disorders of acception may be either hypophilic deficiences, of hyperphilic increases. The disorders of conception are those of infertility. There is a nonsystematic relationship of erotosexualism to the hormonal cycle of the menses and to gerontological hormonal changes.
2824596|The main factors contributing to coloniality in birds relate to predation and resource utilization. Nesting in inaccessible sites reduces predation, as does anti-predator behavior such as early warning and mobbing. Breeding synchrony (presumably caused by social stimulation) leads to decreased predation by producing superabundant food (young and eggs) at one peak time. Since predators can eat only so much at one time, a lower proportion of young are eaten if predators are not recruited into the area. Colonies are usually visible to predators, and cryptic coloration of eggs and young plays a role in the protection of eggs and young, but not of adults. Resource competition includes competition for space, nest materials, mates, and food. Competition for food is offset by the colony acting as an information center whereby unsuccessful foragers follow successful ones to patchy, ephemeral food sources. In herons, all these factors apply, and the advantages of mixed-species heronries to individuals include minimizing nest competition and food competition, while maximizing anti-predator behavior and increasing social interactions and information transfer. A model is presented that uses these selection factors to predict the optimal colony size for Ciconiiformes. Using the model, predictions are made concerning heronries, and several are tested from published data.
2824595|Pattern formation is the process by which cells in regenerating and developing systesm are spatially organized to form the complex structures of the adult organism. This aspect of morphogenesis has intrigued developmental biologists for over a century. The urodele limb has been used extensively in the study of morphogenesis during regeneration and several models have been proposed to account for a variety of experimental results. The purpose of this paper is to review the experiments that have been published since the turn of the century that deal with patter formation in the regenerating limbs of urodele amphibians and to discuss these results in the context of recent theoretical models.
2826463|Hatching asynchrony within a brood, produced by the parent(s) initiating incubation before all eggs are laid, varies in degree among and within bird species. Its occurrence has been explained primarily as a mechanism for brood reduction in habitats with unpredictable resources, and less often as a response to nest predation. Using a simply model of the effect of total nest failure on optimal asynchrony, we predict that, even in the absence of brood reduction, most bird species should commence incubation before the last egg is laid. Data from 87 species of altricial birds support the nest-failure model and not the brood-reduction hypothesis. Other features of bird reproductive biology (e.g., variation in egg weight), which are problematic for the brood-reduction hypothesis, are also explained by the nest-failure model.
2826464|DNA damage appears to be ubiquitous in the biological world, as judged by the variety of organisms which have evolved DNA-repair systems. Previously, it was proposed that germ-line DNA of multicellular organisms may be protected from damage, and consequently from aging, by efficient recombinational repair during meiosis. The somatic line, however, may be vulnerable to the accumulation of DNA damage, and hence undergo aging, owing to relatively less repair. Although DNA Lesions most important in aging are not known yet, these is evidence for several types of endogenous damage. DNA lesions have been shown to interfere with transcription and replication, and so lead to loss of cell function and death. In mammals, there is a progressive decline of function in many different tissues with increasing age. Deterioration of central nervous system functions appears to be a critical part of the aging process. This may be due to the low DNA repair capacity which is found in postmitotic brain tissue, and which could result in the accumulation of DNA lesions in this tissue. Also reviewed is evidence that species longevity is directly related to tissue DNA-repair capacity and that aging may be accelerated by treatment with DNA-damaging agents, or in individuals with genetically defective repair. Although it has been frequently postulated that somatic mutation may be a cause of aging, current evidence suggests that it is probably less important than DNA damage. A prominent theory on the evolution of aging, which attributes special importance to genes that are advantagous in youth but are deleterious later on, is discussed in terms of regulatory genes that reduce DNA repair as cells differentiate to the postmitotic state. Finally, we hypothesize that the factors which determine maximum longevity of individuals in a population are the rate of occurrence of DNA damage, the rate of DNA repair, the degree of cellular redundancy, and the extent of exposure to stress.
2820822|A schema for systematic inquiry into different patterns of copulatory behavior in male mammals i proposed. Three stages in the development of a complete analysis are isolated: classification, elaboration, and experimental analysis. A classification schema based on four attributes is proposed. Species may or may not display a lock, thrusting during intromissions, multiple intromissions, and multiple ejaculations. Literature on species-typical patterns is reviewed in terms of these attributes.
2820823|The phylogenetic position of the monocotyledons, in general, and of the family Pandanaceae, in particular, is reviewed. Recent work on the Pandanaceae, and some general considerations, suggest that there is need for a reassessment of the family. It does not appear as advanced as some recent authors have suggested, although a return to the Englerian position is not recommended. General systems of the monocotyledons do not seem satisfactory as yet; it is suggested that a concentrated effort be made to rectify this situation. The role of the tropics, in particular the Indo-Malaysian-Melanesian region, in furnishing "living fossils" is mentioned. Some recent data on the three genera of the Pandanaceae which assist in establishing an arrangement are reported. The genus Freycinetia appears to have the most advanced position, whereas Pandanus and Sararanga are, on the whole, more primitive, the latter perhaps retaining the greatest number of archaic features. In conclusion, attention is drawn to the need to reconsider the origin of the monocotyledons.
2820824|Records for smut families and the graminicolous genera and species, when set alongside taxonomic views on Gramineae, reveal correlations at various levels, and suggest that grass and smut taxonomies can profitably exchange information. Implications of the main smut/grass-host patterns seem relevant to grass classification; to family, generic, and specific definition in Ustilaginales; and to selection of material for experimental work with smuts. Smut records attest to the taxonomic usefulness of festucoid and panicoid assemblages, and confirm that chloridoid and arundinoid-danthonioid grasses are essentially panicoid. They emphasize the differences between the Andropogoneae and Paniceae, but festucoid and chloridoid tribes other than the Stipeae are attacked at random. If Ustilago is ignored, the smut families Tilletiaceae (mainly on festucoids) and Ustilaginaceae (on panicoids) show marked taxonomic preferences among grasses. Certain smut records for grasses are taxonomically so peculiar as to suggest the need for critical reconsideration.
2820738|Analysis of the dynamics of the ontogeny of social interaction is of critical importance in order that behavioral development may be comprehended in its own right, and the relationship between infant and adult behavior understood. In this review, general concepts of behavioral development in mammals are discussed and analyzed, and the many variables that are involved are considered. When it is impossible to control or observe the social interaction of the developing organism in its natural environment, captive subjects should be used. There is increasing evidence that results obtained with the latter are related to social organization observed in the wild. Play behavior is operationally defined on the basis of a comprehensive review of the literature and of personal observations of the social development of canids. The essential "need" for social interaction during infant life is discussed, as is the phenomenon of behavioral neoteny. The concept of metacommunication, and its relationship to social development are analyzed, and the role of ritualization in the evolution of metacommunicative signals is considered.
2820737|In attempting to review and classify the major intercontinental disjunctions in the geographic ranges of seed plants, six guiding principles are followed where possible. Sixteen categories and 34 subcategories of disjuct ranges of intercontinental magnitude (Table 1) are classified according to continents and latitudinal bands involved. Widely distributed taxa are, by their very nature, disjunct; they are therefore classified along with the more traditionally discontinuous types. Thus, for the most part, only endemics and taxa with smaller intracontinental disjunctions are omitted from this review. Generalized distribution maps are presented for selected taxa characteristic of each of the dicontinuous types. Other taxa are listed for each of the categories and subcategories, and compendia of good distribution maps are cited for ready reference to additional examples. Possible explanations for the major discontinuities are discussed. Finally, a statistical summary is given of the numbers of disjunct taxa and the largest disjunct categories. Among the Angiospermae (the flowering plants), approximately 78 per cent of the 324 families, 24 per cent of the genera, and 1 per cent of the species are widely disjunct. The largest number of disjunct genera are found among the African-Eurasian-(Pacific) (600), Asian-Pacific (460), Pacific (370), North American-South American (ca. 360), Pantropical (334), North Temperate (316), and Subcosmopolitan (125) categories; the largest number of disjunct families among the Subcosmopolitan (90), Pantropical (59), North Temperate (20), African-Eurasian (Pacific) (17), and North American-South American (13) categories.
2821773|Kin selection has been used to explain evolution of man altruistic traits found in those social insect castes which have reduced reproductivity. Kin selection is most probable among organisms living in family groups. It is commonly assumed, therefore, that (1) the most primitive social insects, like the more specialized ones, live in mother-daughter (eusocial) colonies, (2) colonies of individuals of the same generation and showing castes (semisocial colonies) are abnormal or originate only in inbreeding populations, and (3) transfer of individuals among colonies must be selected against, except in inbreeding populations. Numerous Hymenoptera are cited, however, in which semisociality or transfer occurs in populations lacking evidence for inbreeding; and we believe that, in explaining the origin of social behavior in insects, Hamilton and others have placed too much emphasis on the evolution of altrustic behavior through kin selection. There is considerable evidence that social behavior in insects is in part mutualistic. Social colonies without altruism are therefore considered a probability. Factors in addition to kin selection that could promote social behavior are examined, and it is our view that a whole series of factors acting jointly or alternately is responsible for the numerous origins of sociality in Hymenoptera, compared to only one in all the other insects. An important factor favoring mutual tolerance and initial colony formation is the need for defense. Hymenopteran workers are commonly reproductive and produce most of the male offspring in some primitively as well as highly eusocial forms (90% of the males in a species of Bombus; 95% in a Trigona). Individual selection for sources of males should favor production of workers. Presence of ovaries and of reproductive behavior in many workers suggests that reproductivity is retained by selection. In the most primitive social Hymenoptera, queens and workers together vary little more than do females of related solitary species. If both the more and the less reproductive individuals profit from the association, selection will favor colonies. The more reproductive individuals tend to start nests first and to be joined by delayed reproducers that are often workerlike. Thus semisocial colonies of very similar castes can arise without kin selection or altruism; they are preadaptations to eusocial evolution and provide immediate improved protection for the nest. Joiners will be more certain to arrive, although much delayed, if they are progeny of the colony or lone founder. This leads to eusocial colonies among which kin selection can operate. Eusocial colonies need not, but probably often do, arise from semisocial ones, as is suggested (1) by the frequency of nest aggregations providing numerous acceptors and joiners of the same generation, and (2) by the ontogeny of many bee and wasp colonies. There is no certainty that kin selection and altruism will arise with eusociality, but they probably usually do; they may also arise in semisocial groups if the individuals are closely enough related as a result of inbreeding. Eusocial colonies without altruism are possible if male production by workers is important enough. Long life, and ability to produce female offspring under suboptimum conditions so that they will become joiners, or ability to dominate other females with the same result, and other queenlike features should be favored by individual selection operating on queens, regardless of the origin of the society. Male haploidy is related to many aspects of hymenopteran evolution. Among these is the origin and evolution of social behavior because of (1) partial immunity to inbreeding resulting from the loss of lethals, allowing long-term aggregations and colonies and effective kin selection to arise, (2) sperm storage by females, absence of a king in social groups, and the control of the sex of offspring, permitting the extraordinary sex ratios found in highly social Hymenoptera, (3) the importance of male-production by workers in primitively social groups and some highly social ones, and (4) the closer relation of sisters to one another than to their daughters, an arrangement that ecourages effective kin selection. Male-producing workers increase genetic recombinations and permit retention of the advantages of a haplodiploid genetic system while permitting also some advantages of the ordinary fully diploid system. The loss of variation due to male haploidy may be partly responsible for the evolution of outbreeding devices, including acceptance of joiners. The joiners are ordinarily workers which, as male-producers, will increase variation, but may in error be members of related species, a situation resulting in the potential for evolution of social parasites. Immunity to inbreeding permits aggregations, in which pressure from natural enemies is likely to promote development of colonies. None of the special features described above applies to termites, in which the need to transfer intestinal symbionts must be the prime factor that encouraged social evolution. In the initial stages (as in the roach, Cryptocercus) there is no altruism, a feature that, however, characterizes subsequent stages in termite evolution.
2821774|The light-induced development of chloroplast membranes has been widely studied and models describing the course of this development have been proposed by various investigators. The development of the chloroplanst in higher plants as described by von Wettstein is briefly reviewed. Revisions of this scheme are suggested, based on more recent data, especially work using improved fixation methods for electron microscopy. Transformation of the prolamellar body takes place via a direct conversion of the prolamellar body into thylakoids, without an intervening stage of vesicle formation. The conversion is through the extension of membranes from the prolamellar body, non through and alignment of discrete vesicles which have broken off from the prolamellar body. The development of the etioplast and formation of the prolamellar body have been shown by recent work to involve growth of continuous membranes which may be attached to the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope as well as the prolamellar body. Thus, considerable evidence has accumulated that the plastid membranes maintain their continuity to a great extent-in the mature chloroplast, during formation of prolamellar bodies in the dark, and during light-induced thylakoid formation. Discrete vesicles which break apart and re-fuse under different conditions are probably the result of fixation artifacts, particularly with potassium permanganate. That continuous membranes rather than discrete vesicles are present can be seen particularly well with glutaraldehyde fixation. Glutaraldehyde fixation also reveals that the membranes contain perforations (perforated or reticulate thylakoids) at particular times during the development of the chloroplast. Their presence has now been well documented during prolamellar body formation and the initial stages of thylakoid formation from the prolamellar body. During subsequent stages of thylakoid development, they disappear. Some earlier workers concluded that thylakoid synthesis involved the inner membrane of the plastid envelope as a source of vesicles which budded off and then refused after they had migrated to the center of the plastid. That the inner membrane does have a role in thylakoid synthesis has been substantiated by more recent work. Invaginations of the inner membrane have been reported to take place through both the formation of tubules and the elaboration of continuous sheets. There are also various types of inclusions found in the developing plastids, some of them tubular in nature, whose role is not clear. Althoug earlier work established that the prolamellar body was a thylakoid precursor when etiolated seedlings were exposed to light, its role in plants developing normally in the light was uncertain. Recent reports have greatly expanded our information about the prolamellar body. It appears under a variety of conditions, and in many species of light-grown plants. It has also been reported to occur in several species of algae, although its role in membrane formation in these cases is less certain. The control of prolamellar body structure and formation by light and its role as a thylakoide precursor is discussed. Intraplastid membrane-bound bodies have been examined by a number of authors in several types of tissues and some of them appear to have a role in supplying precursors dirung membrane synthesis. The possible role of chlorophyll synthesis in the development of the membranes is also examined. Certain stages of chlorophyll synthesis and particular changes in the membrane seem to be associated, in that they occur simultaneously. Unfortunately, the evidence pertaining to these relationships is indirect and often contradictory. Although new evidence has failed to demonstrate conclusively what role chlorophyll and its precursors might play in membrane development, it has had the result of casting doubt on some of the old assumptions. Prolamellar bodies are found under conditions where chlorophyll is accumulating, suggesting that accumulation of the chlorophyll precursor, protochlorophyllide, is not always essential for prolamellar body formation. In contrast to previous reports, prolamellar body transformation and protochlorophyllidae photoreduction can be separated and are not necessarily simultaneous events. The photoreceptor is not known for any of the stages in membrane development which are regulated by light.
2821117|Lysosomes, discovered by Christian de Duve in 1952, and since shown to be characteristic constituent organelles of all cells, are very important containers of acid hydrolases and perhaps other digestive enzymes. The functions of these enzymes relate to extracellular digestion of cells, intracellular digestion, and self-lysis of the cell. The lysosomal enzymes affect carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, and genetic deficiencies in enzymes produce such diseases as glycogen storage disease, and Tay-Sachs and other neurological diseases. Tay-Sachs disease is discussed as an example. It is produced by a deficiency of hexosaminidase A. It is a recessive autosomal condition in its inheritance. Both the heterozygotes and the affected fetus may be detected by tests for hexosaminidase A. Amniocentesis may be used to diagnose the homozygous condition, which is fatal by the third year of life, and an abortion may then be performed. A variety of psychological, ethical, and legal questions, as well as biological and medical ones, result from the possibility of prenatal diagnosis or of screening high-risk populations (Ashkenazi Jewish) for carriers who are married to one another. Many of these questions now urgently need answers.
2821116|The antibody response is a complex process involving the response of a system of cells, termed lymphoid cells, to a foreign stimulus or antigen. Both macrophages and lymphocytes participate in the immune response. One class of lymphocyte, termed "B" lymphocytes, are the cells which divide and differentiate into antibody-forming cells. The second class, "T" lymphocytes, are derived from the thymus and are preeminent in cell-mediated immunity. T cells do not secrete serum antibody, but may participate in a "helper" capacity in the humoral immune response. Marked features of the immune response are its specificty and its diversity. The basis of the specificity are the receptors on the surface of B lymphocytes, which are antibody molecules, similar in most respects to those eventually secreted. The diversity of the immune system is based on the development in the fetus and throughout life of a great heterogeneity in the lymphoid cell populations based on differences in the specificity of the surface receptors. In both T and B lymphocyte systems there is adaptive behavior. Confrontation with antigen may cause an increase in the number of lymphocytes capable of reacting to that antigen at some subsequent time. This process is termed immunological memory. Alternatively, antigens may sometimes cause a reduction in the capacity to respond subsequently specifically to that antigen. This is called immunological tolerance.
2830890|Among vertebrates there is wide variation in the degree to which sexual differentiation is developmentally buffered, or canalized. In birds, and particularly in mammals, gonadogenesis occurs early in development and without a significant contribution from the environment. In contrast, sexual development in teleosts is protracted and plastic. Here I consider this lability in the context of the developmental processes underlying sex differentiation in teleosts, and contrast these processes with those in other vertebrate taxa. One fundamental difference in teleost sexual differentiation from that of letrapods may be in the developmental polarity of the brain-pituitary-gonadal axis. In mammals the gonads differentiate early and affect, through the release of steroid hormones, the sexual differentiation of the brain. It is proposed here that in teleosts the brain is the initial site of sexual differentiation, and that the pattern of differentiation in the brain determines the fate of the gonads.
2830891|The striking opportunities for competition in the pollination stage of the life cycle of flowering plants have been remarked on for many years, yet it is still not clearly known how much genetic variation for the rates of growth of pollen tubes exists in natural populations. Here we review the evidence for such variation, and discuss some of the possible mechanisms by which this thype of variation could be maintained. If faster pollen tube growth rates tend to be correlated with higher fitness of the propeny sired, then most of the variation would be expected to be due to detrimental mutations, and therefore subject to purifying selection. If, however, variation is maintained in populations, it is likely that genetic factors for fast pollen tube growth would reduce fitness at other stages of the life cycle, resulting in negative genetic correlations between pollen and progeny quality. Future studies of pollen competition and its effects on progeny fitness components should be designed to avoid confounding effects of such factors as inbreeding depression and self-incompatibility types, enabling these possibilities to be distinguished.
2832015|In most animals, members of one sex compete more intensely for mates than members of the other sex, and show a greater development of secondary sexual traits. The relative intensity of mating competition in the two sexes depends on the operational sex ratio (OSR) (the ratio of males that are ready to mate to females that are ready to mate) at the site and times when mating occurs. The extent and direction of biases in the OSR is closely related to the potential rates of reproduction that individual males and females can achieve, although the distribution of the two sexes in space and time, sex differences in development time or life expectancy, and biases in the sex ratio at birth or hatching can also be important. The potential rates of reproduction in the two sexes are, in turn, affected by the proportion of time and energy expended by male and female parents on their progeny, though other factors may constrain reproductive rate in one or both sexes. We outline a simple model of the factors affecting the OSR, where relative parental expenditure by the two sexes and the adult sex ratio are fixed, and a more complex model where the adult sex ratio varies in relation to the reproductive activity of the two sexes. This framework for relating sex differences in mating competition to the OSR, potential reproductive rates, and parental expenditure differs from Triver's concept of the relation between parental investment and mating competition in three ways: first, it identifies the OSR as the immediate factor determining which sex completes most intensely for mates; second, it recognizes that factors other than the future fitness costs of rearing offspring can affect the potential reproductive rate of the two sexes; third, it suggests an empirical measure (potential reproductive rate) that can be estimated in natural populations and used to predict the distribution of mating competition.
2832016|Quantitative estimates of past climates have been generated from biological data based on (1) the way in which climatic factors limit the occurrences of taxa or associations, (2) the response of characteristics of taxa (for example, tree ring widths or leaf-physiognomic characters) to climate, and (3) variance in relative frequency of taxa with climate. Relative-frequency analysis has been extensively applied to marine records as old as Miocene in age, and also to pollen records from the Holocene and last glacial epoch. Another approach to Quaternary climate reconstruction is based on limiting factors where taxa can be identified at the species level (as is the case for plant macrofossils). Cretaceous and Tertiary floras have generally been analyzed in terms of characteristics of taxa, mainly leaf physiognomy. For older assemblages, both marine and terrestrial, interpretations are more generalized and are derived from zonation patterns and occurence of climatically sensistive forms. Whereas completeness and continuity make marine records the most important baseline source of information on global change, terrestrial records serve to establish the complete range of climate variability.
2831435|Why do the young of cooperative breeders-species in which more than two individuals help raise offspring at a single nest-delay dispersal and live in groups? Answering this deceptively simple question involves examining the costs and benefits of three alternative strategies: (1) dispersal and attempting to breed, (2) dispersal and floating, and (3) delayed dispersal and helping. If, all other things being equal, the fitness of individuals that delay dispersal is greater than the fitness of individuals that disperse and freed on their own, intrinsic benefits are paramount to the current maintenance of delayed dispersal. Intrinsic benefits are directly due to living with others and may include enhanced foraging efficienty and redudec susceptibility to predation. However, if individuals that disperse and attempt to breed in high-quality habitat achieve the highest fitness, extrinsic constraints on the ability of offspring to obtain such high-quality breeding opportunities force offspring to either delay dispersal or float. The relevant constraint to independent reproduction has frequently been termed habitat saturation. This concept, of itself, fails to explain the evolution of delayed dispersal. Instead, we propose the delayed-dispersal threshold model as a guide for organizing and evaluating the ecological factors potentially responsible for this phenomenon. We identify five parameters critical to the probability of delayed dispersal: relative population desnity, the fitness differential between early dispersal/breeding and delayed dispersal, the observed or hypothetical fitness of floaters, the distribution of territory quality, and spatiotemporal environmental variability. A key conclusion from the model is that no one factor by itself causes delayed dispersal and cooperative breeding. However, a difference in the dispersal patterns between two closely related species or populations (or between individuals in the same population in different years) may be attributable to one or a small set of factors. Much remains to be done to pinpoint the relative importance of different ecological factors in promoting delayed dispersal. This is underscored by our current inability to explain satisfactory several patterns including the relative significance of flooting, geographic biases in the incidence of cooperative breeding, sexual asymmetries in delayed dispersal, the relationship between delayed dispersal leading to helping behavior and cooperative polygamy, and the rarity of the co-occurrence of helpers and floaters within the same population. Advances in this field remain to be made along several fronts. In particular, we advocate experimental tests of specific ecological factors affecting the parameters of the delayed-dispersal threshold model, studies of noncooperatively breeding taxa focusing on what constraints to independent reproduction exist and why they do not result in delayed dispersal, and studies of intraspecific variation in group size and composition of cooperative breeders in relation to local habitat gradients and patchiness.
2831436|We derive a simple operational definition of teaching that distinguishes it from other forms of social learning where there is no active participation of instructors, and then discuss the constituent parts of the definition in detail. From a functional perspective, it is argued that the instructor's sensivity to the pupul's changing skills or knowledge, and the instructor's ability to attribute mental states to others, are not necessary conditions of teaching in nonhuman animals, as assumed by previous work, because guided instruction without these prerequisites could still be favored by natural selection. A number of cases of social interacion in several orders of mammals and birds that have been interpreted as evidence of teaching are then reviewed. These cases fall into two categories: situations where offsprings are provided with opportunities to practice skills ("opportunity teaching"), and instances where the behavior of young is either encouraged or punished by adults ("coaching"). Although certain taxonomic orders appear to use one form of teaching more often than the other, this may have more to do with the quality of the current data set than with inherent species-specific constraints. We suggest several directions for future research on teaching in nonhuman animals that will lead to a more thorough understanding of this poorly documented phenomenon. We argue throughout that adherence to conventional, narrow definitions of teaching, generally derived from observations of human adult-infant interactions, has caused many related but simpler phenomena in other species to go unstudied or unrecorded, and severely limits further exploration of this topic.
2830649|There are three categories of cooperation among unrelated individuals: group-selected behavior, reciprocal altruism, and by-product mutualism. A simple two-strategy game, the cooperator's dilemma, which generalizes the well-known prisoner's dilemma, provides a coherent framework for distinguishing the mechanisms that support cooperation in each category. The mechanism for cooperation in group-selected behavior is deme structure; variance among trait groups allows natural selection to favor individuals in groups with a higher frequency of cooperators. A prerequisite for this mechanism to work is differential productivity of trait groups. The mechanism for cooperation in reciprocal altruism is scorekeeping, which allows cooperators to relatiate against noncooperators by conditioning their behavior on that of others. A prerequisite for this mechanism is that the expected number of interactions between individuals be sufficiently high. In nonsessile organisms, individuals must typically have a sufficiently well-developed neural apparatus to recognize opponents and remember their actions on previous encounters. The mechanism for cooperation in by-product mutualism is the common enemy of a sufficiently adverse environment. A prerequisite for this mechanism is the boomerang factor, that is, any uncertainty that increases the probability that a noncooperator will be the victim of its own cheating. These mechanisms may operate, alone or together, in widely divergent taxa. Empirical studies suggest that cooperation among unrelated confoundresses in the desert seed harvester ant, Messor pergandei, exemplifies group-selected behavior. Other recent experiments suggest that predator inspection in fish may satisfy the prerequisites for cooperation via reciprocity between nonsessile organism. Cooperative hunting of large prey in lions appears to be an example of by-product mutualism. Both theoretical and empirical work are needed to distinguish among these possibilities, and future research directions are discussed.
2830650|Physiological and ecological constraints play key roles in the evolution of plant growth patterns, especially in relation to defenses against herbivores. Phenotypic and life history theories are unified within the growth-differentiation balance (GDB) framework, forming an integrated system of theories explaining and predicting patterns of plant defense and competitive interactions in ecological and evolutionary time. Plant activity at the cellular level can be classified as growth (cell division and enlargement) of differentiation (chemical and morphological changes leading to cell maturation and specialization). The GDB hypothesis of plant defense is premised upon a physiological trade-off between growth and differentiation processes. The trade-off between growth and defense exists because secondary metabolism and structural reinforcement are physiologically constrained in dividing and enlarging cells, and because they divert resources from the production of new leaf area. Hence the dilemma of plants: They must grow fast enough to complete, yet maintain the defenses necessary to survive in the presence of pathogens and hervivores. The physiological trade-off between growth and differentiation processes interacts with herbivory and plant-plant competition to manifest itself as a genetic trade-off between growth and defense in the evolution of plant life history strategies. Evolutionary theories of plant defense are reviewed. We also extend a standard growth rate model by separating its ecological and evolutionary components,and formalizing the role of competition in the evolution of plant defense. We conclude with a conceptual model of the evolution of plant defense in which plant physioligical trade-offs interact with the abiotic environment, competition and herbivory.
2816239|A diversity of results has been obtained from nuclear transfer experiments in Amphibia since the time when a satisfactory technique was first developed for transplanting living cell nuclei into enucleated eggs. This article reviews the question of whether stable changes restricting the developmental capacity of cell neclei are important in promoting the normal differentiation of somatic cells. The results of experiments with Rana and Xenopus have clearly shown that the mitotic products of some transplanted cell neclei have undergone stable changes restricting their developmental capacity. It has not yet been conclusively demonstrated that these nuclear changes arise during normal cell differentiation rather than following transplantation. If it should be found that at least some stable nuclear changes do arise during normal cell differentiation, there is at present no evidence to show whether they promote cell differentiation or arise only as a consequence of it. Other nuclear transfer experiments have shown that, at least in some cases, nuclei can support the formation of differentiated intestine cells without having lost the capacity to promote the formation of other quite different cell types. It is argued that some of these results support, and that others are consistent with, the following general conclusions: (1) that the nuclei of differentiating somatic cells do not generally undergo any restrictive changes affecting the genetic material itself; and (2) that the specialized information provided by somatic cell nuclei either results from a semistable inactivation of parts of the genetic material, or else depends solely upon the nature of the environment in which the chromosomes lie at any one time.
2816238|Evidence is presented supporting the viewpoint that all the moderns Amphibia are clearly related. It is suggested that the three living orders constitute a natural monophyletic group-the infra-class Lissamphibia sensu Gadow. Other theories are briefly reviewed. Finally an attempt is made to determine the Paleozoic ancestors of the Recent amphibians, but the available evidence is contradictory and inconclusive.
2816237|The amphibian pronephric system is reviewed in terms of ontogeny and phylogeny, function, growth, and degeneration. The cassical concept of a derivation from a hypothetical segmental tubular archinephros, and of its nephrotomal origins are well known, and earlier workers have accumulated considerable information about the origin, development, and inductive property of the pronephric duct. Yet knowlegde of pronephros phylogenetic development within the amphibia, of causal factors involved in its growth and degeneration, and an understanding of its functional behavior are somewhat limited. Some recent work in these latter fields by the author, together with that of earlier contributions by others, has been described. It may be concluded that except perhaps for its phylogenetic development (and to some extent the properties of the duct), there exists only a superficial and meager understanding of nearly all aspects of the amphibian pronephric system, the investigation of which should provide fruitful fields for the embryologist.
2818061|Pattern formation in morphogenesis has been a subject of considerable investigation by many biologists working in diverse fields. The present article takes into account various lines of inquiry on the genesis of regular patterns in terms of concepts of genetics, embryology, biophysics, biochemistry, and mathematics and attempts to determine their contribution to the emergence of a general concept. The main emphasis is laid on primary patterns from which the final patterns are derived. The development of a pattern can be brought about by two processes, one concerned with the formation of a 'prepattern' which determines the positions at which structures are formed and the other determining the amount of 'precursor' or differences in the competence of cells to respond to an underlying prepattern. On the basis of this morphogenetic model, some of the experimental results, involving the genesis of novel patterns, and variation in the numbers and positions of structures are interpreted. The mechanisms responsible for the genesis of prepatterns are discussed. The prepattern is considered as the distribution of an inducing substance with regions of high and low concentration; the regions of high concentration occur at sites where structures later form. The process whereby such a distribution could arise is described. Various other mechanisms by which regular patterns involving larger number of structures can be formed are discussed.
2818063|In the past, the development of behavior in vertebrate embryos has been interpreted in terms of two opposing viewpoints. Coghill, on the basis of his observations on the salamander Ambystoma, has maintained that behavior represents an integrated pattern from beginning to end; partial patterns segregate from total patterns by a developmental process which he calls "individuation." The opposing view, advocated by Windle and other students of the behavior of mammalian embryos and fetuses, contends that local reflexes are the elementary units of behavior that combine secondarily to form integrated patterns. The conceptual and factual foundations of both theories are reappraised, and their limitations and shortcomings are indicated. It becomes evident that Coghill's concepts, derived from lower forms, cannot be generalized and extended to higher forms. On the other hand, the reflexogenic theory is unacceptable on theoretical and factual grounds. A reinvestigation of the embryology of behavior in the chick embryo has provided a new frame of reference that places the problem in a different perspective. An old observation of Preyer (1885) to the effect that overt motility is in operation several days before reflex circuits are formed has been followed up, and, in a series of observations and experiments, spontaneous, nonreflexogenic motility was established as a basic component of embryonic behavior. In can be shown that spontaneous motility patterns are not influenced by sensory input. Arguments are presented in favor of the idea that the spontaneous motility in the chick embryo is due to automatic, self-generated activity of neurons rather than to stimulation by agents in the circulation. One of the most significant characteristics of spontaneous motility is its rhythmicity: short phases of activity are followed by longer phases of inactivity. The analysis of recordings of the periodicity in normal embryos and in embryos with transected spinal cords has enabled us to dissociate a trigger mechanism for activation of motility from a device that determines the duration of the activity phases. Spontaneous and reflexogenic motility are regarded as two independent basic constituents of embryonic behavior. The former is considered to be the primary component, not only because it precedes the reflex responses in lower forms but mainly because reflex motility remains latent in the embryo owing to the absence of adequate stimuli; therefore, it cannot contribute to the molding of behavior patterns in prehatching and prenatal stages.
2818062|Although the ecological significance of dew is the focal point of the review, dew formation, dew measurement, and dew utilization by the plant are examined in detail. Consequently most of the published research on dew is covered either in the 123 papers cited or in the papers cited therein. The absence of a sustained research interest in dew throughout the last 200 years is considered. The author attributes this to the disappointment that must have prevailed each time it became apparent that dew is rarely if ever a limiting ecological factor. Against this background the thesis is developed that perhaps dew plays an important role in plant interactions and the relative ability of plants to dominate a site-a role yet to be evaluated.
2819158|An examination of the literature on the disjunct amphitropical distribution of herbs between North and South America reveals that a very large number of genera and species are involved, and that there is an infinite variety of patterns represented. Attempted explanations have relied chiefly on either long-distance dispersal of some kind in relatively recent times or on the assumption that broadened coastal shelves or formerly less-interrupted mountain systems, together with different climatic regimes, may have permitted readier reciprocal migrations in the past than would appear to be possible at present. It seems likely that both kinds of explanations have validity in different cases, and that no single solution for all such occurrences is to be expected. A Few examples from Umbelliferae are offered to ilustrate some kinds of situations that may be found in a single family of seed plants.
2819160|In the flora of temperate South America are two species of Compositae, tribe Cichorieae, subtribe Microseridinae, that are disjunct from the North American centers of distribution of their respective genera. Microseries pygmaea, an autogamous annual of central Chile, is morphologically similar to several species of like habit, found in the climatically comparable Californian region. A hybrid obtained between M. Pygmacea and the closely related North American species, M. bigelovii, showed normal meiotic behavior and was almost fully fertile. In an F generation of 55 plants, phenotypic segregation was more in the direction of M. bigelovii, and two individuals resembled that species with only minor differences. There was a complex pattern of inheritance for the number of pappus scales on the fruit, a characteristic of major taxonomic importance in distinguishing the parent species. A reduction in seed fertility of certain hybrid plants was ascribed to segregation of a small, nonreciprocal chromosome translocation. It was concluded that the two species are adequately distinct taxonomically but are genetically closely related and interfertile. Microseries probably reached South America by long-distance dispersal, the most likely time for migration being the middle or late Pliocene Epoch. In the second example, Agoseris coronopifolia is a variable species, distributed over the southern tip of the continent, which can be differentiated from the North American Agoseris heterophylla only with difficulty. Both species are composed primarily of annual or perennial plants with autogamous reproduction. Adaptations for out-crossing are present in some races of A. heterophylla but not in A. coronopifolia. Preliminary crossing experiments suggest that genetic barriers exist between the species. The general pattern of phytogeographical and evolutionary relatioships in Agoseris and Microseris is like that in certain other families of similar distribution.
2819161|The biosystematics of Blennosperma and Lasthenia (Compositae: Helenieae) are discussed. Blennosperma consists of B. nanum (Hook.) Blake, widespread and racially diverse in California; B. bakeri heiser, a narrow California endemic; and B. chilense Less. of the central valley of Chile. Evidence presented suggests that B. chilense is an amphiploid species derived from ancestors similar to the modern california species. The line giving rise to B. chilense apparently developed during or after the Miocene, migrates to South America, andsubsequently became extinct in North America. Lasthenia (sect. Lasthenia) consists of two closely related species: L. glaberrima DC. of Pacific North America and L. kunthii (Less.) Hook & Arn. of Chile. On several grounds it appears that the Chilean species is a vicariad derived from populations established after long-distance dispersal from the northern hemisphere.
2819162|Amphitropical distributions of vascular plants in the Western Hemisphere are divided into three groups: bipola or high-latitude, with about 30 species; temperate, with about 130 species; and desert, with a substancial number. Close relationships of this sort can be explained either by divergence from a common tropical ancestor or by origin on one side of the tropics and subsequent migration to the other. The latter is true for the great majority of groups discussed. These may have crossed the tropics in a single jump or by direct migration. The plant communities involved are relatively recent in origin. The amphitropical disjuncts are drawn from relatively few families and mostly are plants that occur in open habitats such as seacoast or seasonally moist places where establishment would be relatively easy. Woody plants and even herbs of closed communities are scarcely represented. Animals by and large do not have analogous amphitropical distributions as they would be expected to if the plants migrated by a land bridge or mountain chain that took them directly through the tropics. Nearly all of the plants are self-compatible; the arrival of a single seed in a suitable habitat is sufficient for the start of a new disjunct population. Animals, being predominatly bisexual, are not as likely to establish colonies in new areas to which they are rarely dispersed as are autogamous plants. Many of the disjunct patterns correspond with the migration routes of birds, which must occasionally carry seeds between one hemisphere and the other. The floras of extratropical North and South America have been distinct since at least the middle Cretaceous and are still very different at present; the few common or closely similar species are discordant elements superimposed on this pattern. Despite this, in at least 200 species and species-groups of plants, the relationships between North and South American populations are very close. Many of these are annual herbs of rapidly evolving groups in which chromosomal differences often accumulate quickly. Nevertheless, crosses between North and South American plants in several groups have demonstrated a relatively high degree of chromosome pairing and some fertility. The bipolar species mostly come from the Northern Hemisphere; their most likely time of dispersal seems to have ben the Pleistocene. About 85 per cent of the temperate species may likewise have come from the north, possibly in the late Pliocene and Pleistocene. A majority of the desert species may have come from the south, possibly as recently as post-Pleistocene time in some cases. Sporadic long-distance transtropical dispersal seems to be the best hypothesis to account for all these facts.
2819159|The Hydrophylalceae, a predominantly North American family, presents four cases of amphitropical distribution. Two of these (Nama dichotomum and the Phacelia magellanica complex) have apparently reached South America by a stepwise migration along the mountain systems which partially connect the temperate regions of the two continents. These groups still inhabit the mountains of southern Mexico and the northern Andes. Greater distances separate the other two amphitropical groups (Phacelia crenulata group and Phacelia sect. Euglypta), making chance, long-distance dispersal to the south a likely explanation of their distributions. No conspicuous adaptation for dispersal exists in any of these groups, except for the hispid capsule and adherent calyx in the Phacelia magellanica group, which would aid in dispersal by animals. Within the Phacelia magellanica group it appears likely that only one North American species migrated to South America, although there are now at least eight recognizable taxa there, including one rather advanced annual species, P. simplicifolia. F hybrids of low fertility have been obtained in the complex between two species of Chile and two species of California.
2820129|An apparently exclusive reliance on asexual reproduction is common in the Mastigophora and Rhizopoda; it is rare in the Ciliata and unknown in the Sporozoa. The discontinuous distribution of asexuality is more economically explained by the hypothesis that it is a secondary loss which has occurred independently in different taxonomic areas of Protozoa than by supposing that the physiological and cytological bases of sex have been repeatedly evolved along similar lines on a number of occasions. The genetical value of sex may be weakened in either or both of its components (meiosis and fertilization) and may reach a degree of uselessness in autogamy such that, unless autogamy confers some extraneous advantage (as in ciliates), it might as well give way to asexuality. The latter is an ever more extreme form of inbreeding than the former. Not enough is known about the ecological relations of inbreeders and asexual Protozoa to establish a plain connection between the two.
2820128|Recent publications present diverse opinions concerning the classification and taxonmy of the Trematoda. Dollfus (1958b) adopted the system of Faust and Tang (1936), recognizing three subclases: Monogenea, Digenea, and Aspidogastrea. Baer and Euzet (1961) removed the Monogenea from the Trematoda and regarded the group as a separate and independent class in the phylum Platyhelminthes, while Baer and Joyeux (1961) restricted the Trematoda to three subclases: Aspidogastrea, Digenea, and Didymozoidea. Stunkard (1962) presented a new arrangement and restored the terminology of Burmeister (1856) but revised the status of the Aspidobothrea. The class Trematoda was divided into two subclasses, Pectobothridia and Malacobothridia. The Pectobothridia contain two orders, Monopisthocotylea and Polyopisthocotylea; the Malacobothridia contain two orders, Aspidodothrea and Digenea. Morphological and development data are presented to support the opinion that the polystomes should be retained in the Trematoda; that the Didymozoidea should be included in the Digenea; and that the Aspidobothrea and Digenea should be included in a higher taxonomic unit, the Malacobothridia.
