23312358|Morphological variability in two populations of Lake Erie planktonic algae, Ankyra judayi and A. lanceolata, is examined and compared. Although both species are similar in general size and form they are easily separated by shape and position of their binate "anchor-like" appendages.
23312362|The Mexican species of Delphinium are examined; included are fifteen taxa of fourteen species (two subspecies of D. bicornutum Hemsley). One cultivated species (D. ajacis L.) native to Europe, and three species (D. andesicola Ewan, D. scaposum Greene and D. wootonii Rydberg) not yet found in Mxico are included. Proximity of the present ranges of these latter three species on the north side of the United StatesMxico border and presence of suitable habitat in adjacent Mxico warrants their treatment here.
23312360|Chromosome numbers of 2n = 34 and karyotypes of five species of Piptocarpha from southern Brazil are reported for the first time. The chromosome number of 2n = 34 is the same as that for many of the species of Vernonia from the New World. The karyotypes are suggestive of an infrageneric classification of Piptocarpha based upon exomorphology and leaf flavonoids. These first reports are for Piptocarpha quadrangularis, P. lundiana, P. sellowii, P. axillaris, and P. macropoda.
23312355|Saxifraga stellaris L. var. comosa Retz. is disjunct on Mt. Katahdin at the extreme southern periphery of its Arctic distribution. Failure of megasporogenesis and degradation of pollen tetrads requires this proliferous variety of Saxifraga stellaris L. to be an obligate apomict on the mountain. Breakdown of normal sexual reproduction is more complete on Mt. Katahdin than in Greenland where the variety also occurs. Location of bulbils on axillary branches of the reproductive axis and production of aberrant proliferations from placental tissue within ovaries suggests that vegetative proliferations arise from floral meristems. The evolutionary relationship between proliferous Saxifraga stellaris var. comosa and sexual S. stellaris var. stellaris is unresolved.
23312357|A sepalless floral variant of Trillium recurvatum Beck (prairie wakerobin or recurved-sepal trillium), a sessile-flowered species, is described as forma esepalum. The new form is distinguished from f. recurvatum and previously named aberrant forms (f. foliosum Steyerm. and f. petaloideum Steyerm.) by a floral phyllotaxy in which the calyx is represented by petals; other alternating floral whorls appear as normal stamens (3 outer and 3 inner) and a pistil of 3 fused carpels. Absence of a whorl of perianth segments accompanied by a 60 shift in the phyllotaxy of the remaining floral parts was previously noted in the genus Trillium only among the Asiatic species, where a petalless condition characterizes one tetraploid pedicellate-flowered species, T. apetalon Makino.
23312361|Chromosome numbers for individuals from 222 populations of Aster representing 8 species (A. ciliolatus, A. cordifolius, A. laevis, A. macrophyllus, A. ontarionis, A. oolentagiensis, A. puniceus, A. urophyllus) were determined. Sampling was concentrated in the area formerly occupied by Ontario Island. None of the taxa was represented by more than one cytotype for any of the Ontario populations.
23312363|Principal components analysis (PCA) of morphological data and foliar flavonoid content were used to delimit five frequently confused southeastern Vitis taxa and to infer phylogenetic relationships. The PCA revealed four morphological groupings corresponding to V. aestivalis, V. cinerea var. cinerea, V. cinerea var. floridana and, in the fourth group, V. vulpina and V. riparia. The flavonoid survey of the taxa confirmed interspecific distinctions and indicated three distinct chemical groups: one producing only flavonol 3-0-glycosides (V. vulpina, V. riparia), one producing a flavone 7-0-glycoside in addition to the flavonols (V. cinerea var. floridana), and one producing C-glycosylflavones in addition to the flavonols and flavones (V. aestivalis, V. cinerea var. cinerea). These flavonoid data also suggest putative relationships between taxa. Combined use of these two techniques is likely to be useful in future studies addressing taxonomic problems within Vitis.
23312359|Survival of Ulmus americana L. in New England has dramatically improved due to use of a shallow-pit injection technique which delivers systemic fungicide directly into the conducting elements of the outermost growth ring in the trunk. Previous injection methods drive fluids into older, non-functional wood, producing both inconsistent results and costly failures.
23312423|Three species of vascular plants are newly recorded for the flora of Connecticut. These are: Linaria dalmatica L. (Scrophulariaceae); Eupatorium album L., and Aster blakei (Porter) House (Compositae).
23312422|Carex praegracilis W. Boott is a widespread and frequent native species of prairies and meadows throughout much of western North America. It is both salt and drought tolerant. Cumulative maps based on pre-1900, pre-1970 and pre-1984 herbarium specimens were plotted and the differing distributions analyzed. From 1896 to about 1970, sporadic records of its introduction into the east accumulated. These were mostly from near the native range of the species, and often from along railways. From about 1970 on, the species began to occur on saline verges of multilane highways and with incredible rapidity became abundant and widespread in this habitat, at the same time spreading far eastward into the Great Lakes region and beyond. This rapid eastward expansion is attributed to a combination of dispersal opportunities provided by vehicles, by highway construction and maintenance equipment, and provision of more or less continuous corridors of open, saline habitat resulting from roadside mowing and use of de-icing salt.
23312421|Dahlia congestifolia, new from Cerro Chulco near Apan, Hidalgo, belongs to Section Entemophyllon within which its herbaceous and solitary shoot habit, purple disc florets, and non-leafy stems combine to enlarge morphic diversity and, perhaps, draw the section closer to Section Dahlia.
23312420|Since 1978 the Massachusetts Natural Heritage Program has conducted an inventory of rare species throughout the state of Massachusetts. For 286 rare vascular plant taxa information is provided on current nomenclature, number of stations, endangerment status, range extensions, habitat preference, and identification.
23313967|Carex impressinervia Bryson, Kral and Manhart is described from the southeastern U.S. This taxon has characters which, collectively, clearly place it in section Oligocarpae: staminate terminal spikes; female spike scales with harsh cusps and costae; perigynia with many impressed nerves and short, toothless beaks. It is distinguished most easily from the other Oligocarpae by the presence of persistent brownish fibrils of old leaf bases. This taxon appears to be quite rare, known only from four collections from the upper coastal plain and plateau regions of Alabama, Mississippi, and North Carolina.
23313970|Weissia hedwigii, Pottia truncata var. major, and Pottia starkeana ssp. minutula are reported as new to the flora of New York State. Pottia starkeana ssp. minutula may be a weedy introduction from the Old World. The occurrence of Desmatodon porteri is confirmed for the State.
23313973|To determine whether Calopogon tuberosus var. latifolius is worthy of recognition, and if so what rank is appropriate, data from herbarium material and uniform cultivation were analyzed. Plants corresponding to the original concept of Calopogon tuberosus var. latifolius from Sable Island were found to represent the tail end of a continuum of variation, making their formal taxonomic recognition inappropriate. In cultivation the Sable Island plants generally retained their short stature and wide leaves. Although there is a genetic component to the pattern of variation, the limits are arbitrary and some plants from Sable Island initially referable to one variety became referable to the other variety in subsequent years of cultivation. The concept of varietas is considered useful only in the sense of morphological discontinuity involving one or a few differences that have a geographic basis. The unique and genetically-based pattern of variation in Calopogon tuberosus on Sable Island is nevertheless of interest and is part of a general pattern involving both plants and animals.
23313972|A total of 128 original chromosome counts representing 16 taxa of the genus Arnica is presented. A first count for A. lonchophylla ssp. chionopappa (2n = 76), a northeastern North American disjunct, is reported. In addition, new counts are reported for A. angustifolia ssp. attenuata (2n = 76) and A. chamissonis ssp. chamissonis (2n = 76). The latter account for formation of previously reported triploids via hybridization between diploid and tetraploid races. The rare Klamath region endemics are diploid, while their more widespread congeners are largely polyploid. The genus contains several mature polyploid complexes, and exhibits both maximum species diversity and cytological diversity in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and Wyoming.
23313966|Eighteen chromosome counts are reported from populations in 12 species from the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile, plus three counts from taxa of the adjacent mainland. First reports are given for Lobelia tupa (n = 21), Wahlenbergia masafuerae (n = ca. 11), and Raphithamnus spinosus (n = ca. 18). These data help extend chromosomal information for endemic taxa of the archipelago as part of broad evolutionary studies on the origin and development of its vascular flora.
23313969|Cytological and morphological data showed that natural hybridization between Cirsium flodmanii and C. undulatum occurred occasionally in Nebraska and that the high degree of hybrid sterility was correlated with meiotic irregularities.
23313974|One hundred and one species of vascular plants were documented for the flora of Mud Pond Bog, a southern New Hampshire level bog in Hillsborough County. Percent cover data for 77 species in 99 quadrats were analyzed using the classification program TWINSPAN. Vegetation was classified into five community types and seven subtypes based on dominant vascular species. The NymphaeaBrasenia community, an association of floating-leaved aquatics, formed in the open water adjacent to a minerotrophic edge association, the ChamaedaphneDecodonPeltandra community. A more ombrotrophic consolidated mat contained three subtypes of the Chamaedaphne community. The wooded areas of the bog were characterized by the AcerNemopanthus and Ilex verticillataAcerCarex canescens communities. The floristic composition, structure and distribution of these plant communities at Mud Pond Bog have strong similarities to other level peatlands in eastern North America.
23313968|Stelexomonas dichotoma, an oligothermal colonial chrysophycean species, is reported from the phytoplankton of Lake Erie. Notes on its morphological variability are also provided.
23313971|Chromosome numbers are reported for all taxa in the goldenaster genus Pityopsis, which until recently usually has been included in Chrysopsis sensu lato. Pityopsis has a base number of x = 9 and includes diploids, tetraploids and one hexaploid race. After the identities of vouchers for all previous reports were brought into line with the classification indicated below, general patterns of cytotype distributions within taxa in the southeastern United States were recognized. Only diploids are known in P. sect. Pityopsis, and all species have restricted distributions. Polyploidy is frequent in P. sect. Graminifoliae; the cytotypes in species with more than one ploidy level have different, but overlapping, ranges. Reports for the following are documented: Pityopsis aspera var. adenolepis, 2n = 9II, 18, 18II, 36; P. aspera var. aspera, 2n = 9II; P. falcata, 2n = 9II; P. flexuosa, 2n = 9II, 18; P. graminifolia var. aequilifolia, 2n = 9II, 18; P. graminifolia var. graminifolia, 2n = 18; P. graminifolia var. latifolia, 2n = 18II, 36; P. graminifolia var. tenuifolia, 2n = 9II, 18; P. graminifolia var. tracyi, 2n = 54; P. oligantha, 2n = 18II; P. pinifolia, 2n = 9II, 18; and P. ruthii, 2n = 9II.
23313965|Recent herbarium studies have disclosed a specimen supporting reports of Platanthera leucophaea (Nutt.) Lindl. in Louisiana, but specimens cited in the past from Arkansas are neither of this species nor were they collected in that state.
23313077|The distribution of the eastern prickly-pear cactus, Opuntia humifusa in New England is presently restricted to Connecticut and Massachusetts. The northern limit of the range of this species is delimited at approximately 42 degrees north latitude.
23313075|In his monograph of Aster section Biotia Burgess listed, as native to New England, 41 of the 84 species that he recognized in the group. Multivariate statistical analyses of morphological measurements that were made on specimens of Biotian asters collected in the region reveal, however, that only the three species, A. divaricatus, A. macrophyllus, and A. schreberi, are present. The same methods also demonstrate that A. glomeratus, a species that is accepted by some authorities as being native to New England, is simply a diminutive variant of A. schreberi.
23313078|Calamagrostis pickeringii (Poaceae) has been found growing in Maine for the first time. The population, growing in Corea Heath, a costal peatland in Gouldsboro, Hancock County, helps fill a large gap in the species' range in northeastern North America. Its post-glacial northward migration from southern unglaciated stations is suggested as generating its present distribution. Disjunctions in its range may reflect both limited availability of suitable peatland habitats and incomplete documentation of peatlands in east costal Maine and New Brunswick.
23313074|Lowland and upland, old-growth, deciduous forests in northern Cape Breton Island reflect an appreciable representation, in both canopy and sub-canopy layers, of species that reach the northeastern limit of their ranges in the area. A high percentage of arborescent species in the lowland forests are southern in their distributional affinities, whereas upland forests are comprised mainly of species whose distributions are Canadian and boreal. Canopy elements in lowland forests reach considerable heights with size falling off appreciably with increasing altitude. Basal area per acre for stems 4 inches and above in diameter at breast height (D.B.H.) in these old-growth forests varies from 115 to 181 square feet and trees per acre range from 157 to 268.
23313073|Nineteen centric diatom species are described and illustrated from the Highland Lake District of northeastern Wisconsin. Genera treated include Attheya West, Cyclotella (Ktz.) Brb., Melosira C. A. Agardh, Rhizosolenia Brightwell, and Stephanodiscus Ehrenberg. Information on the morphological variability of selected taxa and general distribution within the study area is also provided.
23313072|Carex hostiana DC. is a variable, amphi-Atlantic calciphile. Multivariate statistical analyses have been used to examine the patterns of morphological variation found within the species. Although several infraspecific taxa have been described, the results of this investigation indicate that there are no discontinuities in the morphological variation which can be clearly correlated with geography. Large plants tend to be most frequent on the North American side of the Atlantic Ocean and in Scandinavia, but large and small plants can be found scattered throughout the entire range of the species. No infraspecific taxa are worthy of recognition.
23312450|Taraxacum turfosum (Schultz-Bipont) van Soest, a microspecies of the distinctive Section Palustria (Taraxacum palustre, s. lat.); Asteraceae, was found to be abundant in eastern Ontario and adjacent areas of Quebec and New York state. Earlier reports of the Section are attributed to other taxa. This report is the first verified occurrence of a species of Section Palustria in North America. Its distinctive morphology and habitat are described. The oldest collection of T. turfosum is from 1964, suggesting a recent introduction for this European taxon. Mechanical transport by high speed road traffic, snow plows and grass mowers is apparently assisting its rapid spread along roadways. Viable seed is produced and is likely wind dispersed. Evidence of declining populations was observed following two dry winter/early spring seasons in eastern Ontario.
23312447|The current taxonomic, ecological, and distributional statuses of the genera Oncidium Sw. and Tolumnia Raf. in Florida are discussed. Descriptions and a key to the three species, O. floridanum, O. undulatum, and T. bahamense, are included. Oncidium undulatum is neotypified and O. carthagenense is excluded from the flora of Florida.
23312445|The type species of the genus Sabatia Adans. (Gentianaceae) is S. dodecandra (L.) BSP. and not the species so designated in Index Nominum Genericorum. The status of the genera proposed by Adanson in Familles des Plantes is briefly discussed and it is suggested that stability would be better served by accepting Familles des Plantes by Adanson as a valid source of generic names rather than to discard it as has been recently recommended.
23312448|Fifty-eight of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties were surveyed for the presence of Vittaria and Trichomanes gametophytes. Sixteen new county records are noted for Vittaria. Five previous reports bring the total to twenty-one. Trichomanes, reported previously from twelve counties, is herein recorded from an additional thirty. Phytogeographical observations and comments for both taxa are included.
23312446|Variation in leaf, fruit, bract, and catkin morphology of Betula alleghaniensis Britt. and B. lenta L. was studied along the elevational gradient in the southern Appalachians in order to characterize the regional structure of the two species. Populations at 52 sites were sampled in North Carolina and adjacent parts of Tennessee, Georgia, and South Carolina. Weak to moderate linear relationships with elevation were found in most size attributes for both species. A few shape characters were also correlated with elevation for one or the other species. Betula alleghaniensis was significantly more variable than B. lenta for 28 of the 44 characters analyzed. Levels of variability in both species approximated or exceeded levels found in other regions. Low-elevation rather than high-elevation southern Appalachian B. alleghaniensis appears to be more similar to the northern form. However, due to the nature of the morphological cline, the authors found no validity to varietal distinctions in yellow birch.
23312449|Two populations of the globally endangered running buffalo clover (Trifolium stoloniferum) were recently discovered in Ohio County in southeastern Indiana. The habitats of the populations are limestone gravel wash, mesic upland forest, and mesic floodplain forest. All of the sites are grazed to various degrees by cattle. Absence of the clover in similar but ungrazed sites adjacent to the populations suggests that effects of grazing are beneficial. Suppression of competing understory vegetation is likely the most beneficial effect. The endangered status of T. stoloniferum probably reflects actual rarity, but misconceptions by botanists of the clover's morphology and habitat may account for the extreme paucity of recent collections. Recommendations for field survey techniques are given.
23312533|Chromosome numbers of 261 individuals representing 121 taxa and 4 interspecific hybrids from 25 genera are reported. The majority of the counts are for Aster, Gutierrezia and Solidago. Nearly all counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; some reports are first counts for a state or province. Over 100 counts are from populations in California. Included are first reports for the following taxa: Aster laevis var. guadalupensis, 2n = 48; Aster priceae, 2n = 64; Aster reticulatus, 2n = 9ii; Aster wasatchensis, 2n = 18; Gutierrezia solbrigii, 2n = 20ii; Heterotheca jonesii, 2n = 9ii; Heterotheca rutteri, 2n = 18; and Stephanodoria tomentella, 2n = 6ii.
23312535|Arisaema dracontium (L.) Schott has been historically considered rare in Massachusetts. Recent field studies in selected floodplain forests in Hampshire Co. indicate that A. dracontium is more abundant than was previously believed.
23312532|Wintergreen, Gaultheria procumbens, a perennial evergreen member of the boreal forest, has persisted as a post-glacial relic on an acidic, south-facing slope at Pine Hills, Montgomery County, Indiana. The population area is believed to have been minimal in 1868 when overlying hemlock was cut. Surveys in 1951, 1961, 1971, and 1981 have shown the colonies to have expanded vigorously until 1961, then to have undergone a precipitous collapse, associated with regrowth of the hemlock, and to have now approached local extinction. An effort to reverse the population decline by removal of a portion of the hemlock overstory appears not to have been successful.
23312534|Three Mile Island, New Hampshire (U.S.A.), located on the northwest arm of Lake Winnipesaukee in central New Hampshire, is approximately 17.4 ha in size. The flora of this island has been studied intermittently by various botanists and naturalists since 1900. Surveys and collections of the vascular plant flora were undertaken by the authors between 1978 and 1985. A single synthetic list of the island's vascular flora was produced, including plants listed by all previous observers. A total of 363 species is here reported, including Cypripedium arietinum, a rare species listed by the state of New Hampshire. General characteristics of plant taxa lost and gained reflect the land use patterns of Three Mile Island, a continuum of small changes occupying eight decades.
23312465|The status of the on-going floristic survey of the rare plants of New Hampshire is discussed with particular emphasis on the situation both before and after the 1978 publication of Rare and Endangered Vascular Plant Species in New Hampshire. Records of the new state occurrences discovered by the New Hampshire Natural Heritage Inventory are provided. Information on the legal status of rare plant species in the state pursuant to the 1987 Plant Protection Act and the Federal Endangered Species Act is provided.
23312463|The existence of a coastal plain flora in southwestern Nova Scotia was first documented by Fernald in the 1920's. Recent field work has documented the distributions of coastal plain species more accurately, and there is now a growing emphasis on research dealing with habitat conservation. Most Atlantic coastal plain plants in Nova Scotia are confined to infertile sand and gravel shorelines on lakeshores where fluctuating water levels prevent shrubs from colonizing the broad, open shorelines. The species are also abundant where exposure to waves is intense. On such shorelines, wave action reduces soil fertility by washing away small soil particles and organic matter. Coastal plain species are very tolerant of such nutrient-poor conditions and can be considered "stress-tolerators." The plants are not abundant at fertile sites apparently because they cannot successfully compete against tall, fast-growing species that normally occur on fertile soil. As a result, the small, slow growing coastal plain plants are restricted to sparsely vegetated shorelines. Increasing numbers of these species are receiving recognized status from the Nature Conservancy and from the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada. In spite of this, existing habitat continues to be threatened by cottage development and the use of all-terrain vehicles. The establishment of a conservation strategy to preserve what remains of the flora should include 1) the preservation of whole habitats, 2) consideration of global status of the species, and 3) the incorporation of reserves, buffer zones, and community education and participation.
23312469|The Connecticut Geological and Natural History Survey has been sponsoring botanical inventories in Connecticut since its inception in 1903. In 1975 a field team was charged with beginning a statewide inventory of Connecticut's rare species of vascular plants and vertebrate animals; results of these inventories were published in 1976. This publication listed 274 vascular plant taxa as endangered, threatened, or otherwise of interest as uncommon plant species. In 1982 the Connecticut Natural Diversity Data Base was established as a program of the Connecticut Geological and Natural History Survey. The charge of the Data Base is both to accumulate and disseminate data on the biota of Connecticut with special attention being paid to Species of Special Concern. The Natural Diversity Data Base currently lists 331 vascular plant taxa. Since 1979 the Survey has increased its field efforts to locate Species of Special Concern. In addition to a botanist, the Survey funds a full-time plant ecologist whose primary charge is to establish a biophysical land classification for Connecticut. Plant communities are being mapped on 1:250,000 base maps. The Survey also has responsibility for a land owner contact program called the Connecticut Natural Heritage Registry which uses rare species information obtained from the Natural Diversity Data Base. Recent field work has yielded some interesting botanical finds. A number of historic records have been re-located, including Cypripedium reginae, Petasites frigidus var. palmatus, Cryptogramma stelleri, Polygala senega, Polygala nuttallii, and Solidago rigidus. New localities for Trollius laxus ssp. laxus, Viburnum prunifolium, and other species of concern have been found. One locality for a U.S. Endangered Species, Isotria medeoloides, is currently known in Connecticut. Some species new to Connecticut such as Psilocarya scirpoides have been located. Research on Moehringia macrophylla, a species which occurs in Connecticut at two algific talus slopes, is briefly discussed as an example of new program directions.
23312471|Carex, the largest genus of flowering plants in New England, has long presented systematists and floristicians with difficulties. An update on recent systematic research of New England Carex is presented and persisting areas of taxonomic difficulty are tabulated. Whether a species is northern or southern in overall distribution with respect to New England is suggested to be significant, with northern species more frequently persisting as isolated occurrences and under more threat than southern species.
23312460|Late Cretaceous and Tertiary plant fossils are found in relatively few places in New England, but the fossil record is sufficient to provide a general impression of changes in floras, vegetation types, and climates in the region during this time span. Late Cretaceous pollen and plant megafossils of Massachusetts and Rhode Island are poorly known with regard to their affinities with modern taxa, but the fossils show that the subhumid paratropical Normapolles province of the eastern United States extended at least as far north as New England. Paleocene and early Eocene pollen assemblages from Massachusetts are important because they suggest that the tropical rainforests of the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains extended with considerable taxonomic uniformity at least as far north as New England. The Eocene flora is quite similar to the coeval flora of Europe, partly because of migration from Europe to North America at the beginning of Eocene time. The late Oligocene pollen and megafossil flora of Vermont and the middle Miocene pollen flora of Massachusetts probably represent Mixed Mesophytic forest. One or both of these floras included exotic elements such as Glyptostrobus, Podocarpus, Sciadopitys, Alangium, Engelhardieae, Phellodendron, and Turpinia. Two pollen assemblages of probable Pliocene age are known from Martha's Vineyard; they represent a cool temperate vegetation.
23312459|Biogeography is a useful tool for the phylogenist. Distribution patterns, past and present, can be most instructive in indicating possible relationships. This observation is true because the closest living relatives of a phyletically unplaced taxon are more likely than not to be found in the same or adjacent areas rather than on distant continents. However, this generalization must be used with caution for many plant groups possess great vagility and have spread rapidly into appropriate habitats over the earth. The largely Old World Pittosporales are described in some detail as a prime example of application of this dictum of geographic plausibility. Archaic dicotyledons of the Australasian and Asian regions are discussed as other examples of the dictum, as are a few North American taxa such as Simmondsia, Crossosomataceae, and Batis. Additional angiosperms are listed without discussion for both North and South America.
23312461|The times of arrival from southern sources and the rates and directions of migration are now known for many species of forest trees in New England. This information has made possible the reconstruction of generalized vegetation types for the period 14,000 to 9000 yr. B.P., as has been done recently by R. Davis and G. Jacobson for Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine. The regional pattern, which has been based mainly on studies of fossil pollen from wind-pollinated trees, includes a diverse and biogeographically interesting flora of bryophytes, herbs, and shrubs that only recently is becoming defined through studies of plant macrofossils. The most thoroughly investigated sites, Tom Swamp (Massachusetts), Columbia Bridge (Vermont), and Upper South Branch Pond (Maine) have produced late-glacial floras with numerous calcicoles, some of which are rare or lacking in the present New England flora. Fossils of arctic-alpine species are also present at these sites, which are all at low elevations. A prominent calcicole element exists in the late-glacial fossil record regardless of whether the extant flora near a site contains such plants. This pattern is evident for both seed plants and bryophytes. For areas with acidic soils, the loss of calcicoles is correlated with the late-Pleistocene arrival of spruce (as documented by increases in macrofossils) at 12,800 yr. B.P. in southern New England, and some 2300 radiocarbon years later in north-central Maine. Leaching, humus or litter accumulation, and other aspects of soil genesis may have been responsible for the loss, but what caused the pattern is poorly understood. As viewed on a continental scale and over thousands of years, the elimination of calcicoles has left fragmented ranges and rare occurrences in eastern North America of boreal or northern plants that otherwise are today widespread to the west.
23312473|Propagation and cultivation of endangered species can provide information on species biology, provide reserve collections in the event of catastrophe in the wild, educate the public at botanical institutions, and provide plants for reintroduction or introduction to the wild. Propagation notes on New England rare species include Eupatorium leucolepis var. novae-angliae, Trollius laxus, Oxytropis campestris var. johannensis, Schwalbea americana, Agalinis acuta, Astragalis robbinsii var. jesupi, Polemonium van-bruntiae, Mimulus ringens var. colpolphilus, and Scirpus longii.
23312464|The last decade has brought significant advances in knowledge and conservation of rare plant species in Maine. The status of rare species in the state is reflected in the Official List of Maine's Plants that are Endangered or Threatened, recently compiled by the Maine State Planning Office. Systematic inventories by the Maine Critical Areas Program and The Nature Conservancy's Natural Heritage Program have uncovered numerous new populations of species of national concern, and stations for over 50 species for which there were no known extant stations eight years ago. However, 91 species are still considered possibly extirpated in Maine. While 34% of these are northern species, 57% are southern species reaching the northern limits of their ranges in southwestern Maine. It is not known whether this disproportion reflects uneven inventory effort or a greater number of local extinctions. In the last eight years, private conservation organizations have acquired ten sites totalling 2000 acres to protect 45 species of plants. The voluntary cooperation of numerous state agencies, as well as over 225 private landowners, has been enlisted in protecting 168 rare plant stations placed on the Register of Critical Areas. Maine still lacks legislation specifically protecting rare plants. Thus, the principal hopes for further progress in rare plant conservation in Maine lie in continued public education, landowner cooperation, and especially acquisition of critical habitat.
23312493|Spiranthes occupying moist sites in Ash Meadows, Nye County, Nevada, which have been cited as S. romanzoffiana Cham., are described as the new species S. infernalis Sheviak. This species is distinguished by very small flowers with free perianth segments spreading at the apices, the segments ochraceous-ochroleucous with fleshy, emerald-green bases, and lips broadest near the middle.
23312494|Wittrockiella paradoxa Wille (Chlorophyta, Cladophoraceae) is reported for the first time from northeastern North America, at Sam Orr Pond, New Brunswick, Canada. Vegetative plants were found from JuneAugust, 1987, and reproductive plants (bearing aplanosporangia) were found in June and July, 1987. They occurred epiphytically on decaying Spartina leaves in an oligohaline-mesohaline saltmarsh habitat.
23312497|Maine's Official List of Endangered and Threatened Plants includes 85 Endangered and 74 Threatened taxa. In addition, we have recognized three administrative categories: Special Concern (45 taxa), Special ConcernPossibly Extirpated (90 taxa) and Watch List (37 taxa). Status of a particular plant within Maine is the primary rationale for listing, regardless of frequency of occurrence and abundance outside the state. Lack of knowledge of the biology of most of Maine's rare plants precludes use of biological factors in our criteria. Listing criteria are therefore based on population number and size, with exceptions for plants that are Federally Endangered or Threatened, or with small populations, or confined to a small geographic area, or that are clearly and imminently jeopardized. These exceptions to the criteria allow us to list a plant such as Carex oronensis, Orono Sedge, as State Endangered, though it has more than 40 occurrences in Maine, because it is endemic to the Penobscot River drainage. Of Maine's Endangered and Threatened plants, 28 percent are concentrated in the southwestern corner of the state (York and Cumberland Counties) where many plants reach the northeastern limit of their geographical distribution; 38 percent are limited to four areas in northern and northwestern Mainethe St. John River Valley, Crystal Bog, Mt. Katahdin and Twin Peaks. The official list is informational, not regulatory, and will provide a focus for planning and education. The official and administrative lists are to be formally reviewed biennially.
23311119|An updated county distribution map of Platanthera peramoena was made utilizing data from state natural heritage programs and similar organizations. Herbarium and field surveys were conducted by Ohio Division of Natural Areas and Preserves staff for Ohio localities of the species. These studies identified 41 sites of P. peramoena in Ohio, and habitats were identified where new populations are likely to be found. In Ohio, P. peramoena is a plant of wet acidic soils on the Illinois till plain and in the unglaciated Allegheny plateau. While not common in the state it is not in imminent danger of extirpation.
23311124|Flowering phenology, pollination, and morphological aspects of pollen and seeds of Panax trifolium L. are investigated. Plants are apparently androdioecious, but with very minor differences in pollen between floral forms (staminate and hemaphrodite). Light microscope and SEM studies were made of pollen and seeds.
23311118|Specific limits within the Cuban taxa of Kalmia (Ericaceae) are reinvestigated. A single species, K. ericoides, with two geographically isolated varieties is recognized. Kalmia ericoides var. ericoides is limited to Pinar del Ro while var. aggregata occurs only on the Isle of Pines. The taxa may be readily separated by the indumentum of their young twigs. Kalmia simulata is placed in synonymy under var. aggregata.
23311122|Vittaria is reported from 5 counties in Pennsylvania; Trichomanes from 24 counties in Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Vermont. All are new state records except Trichomanes in Massachusetts. These ferns occur as gametophytes only, but in large conspicuous populations in crevices and grottos of moist, non-calcareous rock outcrops in canyon topography. The northernmost distribution of Trichomanes has not been established, but may parallel that of the oak-hickory forest type. Vittaria was not found north of the southern terminus of Pleistocene glaciation; its northern distribution may have been truncated by that event. Vittaria sites in northwestern Pennsylvania are well north of apparently suitable glaciated habitats in eastern Pennsylvania which house Trichomanes but not Vittaria.
23311120|The plumed diaspores of the genus Andropogon are wind-dispersed. The dispersibility of Andropogons helps account for their success as colonizers both in their infestation of appropriate sites and their spread to newly available sites. The wind may also be responsible for the long-distance dispersal of A. bicornis L. from the Caribbean to southern Florida. This is the first record of this widespread New World taxon in the United States.
23311125|Mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia L.) presence along roads was mapped extensively for the whole state and intensively for selected quadrangles. Presence of mountain laurel in selected forests was determined from plots along transects. Frequency of mountain laurel was calculated as the per cent of road distance mapped, or of plots taken, that had laurel present. Mountain laurel occurred throughout the state on a range of sites, except for Cape Cod and eastern Plymouth County, in the high Berkshires and in the far west and north-west. Mountain laurel was uncommon in eastern Massachusetts and in a north-south strip through central Massachusetts, but was otherwise abundant. Absenc of mountain laurel was probably due to either fire history, maritime influence, cold winters, or basic soils. Low frequencies were probably due to a previous history of extensive land clearing for agriculture.
23311202|A synoptic study of chromosome number reports for 73 species of Potamogeton presents evidence supporting the conclusion that that genus is characterized by two different polyploid lineages (one based upon x = 7 and the other upon x = 13). Analyzed comparatively, chromosome numbers also indicate that the diploid level of the genus is 2n = 14, and that the x = 13 lineage arose by aneuploidy from a 2n = 14 progenitor. Comparisons developed by juxtaposition of chromosome numbers with morphological characters and classification ranks indicate that subsections Pusilli, Oxyphylli, and Amplifolii may not represent entirely natural assemblages. The past use of chromosome numbers to demonstrate the primitiveness of submersed leaves in the genus is challenged due to lack of correlation of these features when a larger number of species is considered. Chromosome numbers were found to correlate geographically with the hypothetically proposed birthplace of the genus.
23311205|Chromosome counts are provided for numerous populations representing nine taxa of Galinsoga, one species of Cymophora, two species of Sabazia and one of Tridax. Four of the counts for Galinsoga and one for Cymophora are newly reported. Morphological observations are offered for several of the species known previously only from type specimens or from few collections. Taxonomic ramifications of the cytological and morphological data are discussed.
23311203|Podostemum ceratophyllum is an often overlooked freshwater dicot, restricted to areas of swift moving river currentsan apparently ecologically sensitive habitat. Selected specimens representing the entire range of the plant are listed.
23314613|Carex crinita and C. gynandra are considered by some authors to be conspecific on the basis of morphological similarities. Variation in morphology, foliar anatomy, chromosomal numbers, and habitat preference among 12 populations of these taxa was studied to clarify their status and relationship. Two groups of populations are distinguished by non-overlapping qualitative differences in the morphology of perigynia, scales and sheaths. These groups appear to be reproductively isolated by differences in flowering time where they are sympatric. These taxa must be considered as distinct species on the basis of the morphological differences and reproductive isolation. Shared features of morphology, anatomy, and chromosomal number suggest that they are very closely related.
23314614|At least 18 different chromosome numbers, from n = 21 to n = 153 are reported for 51 collections of Sedum moranense from 45 localities, most of them in east central Mexico. At least ten levels of ploidy, up to 16-ploid, are represented, mostly based on x = 18-21, including probable 5-, 7-, and 9-ploids. Dysploid variants occur at several levels of ploidy, and some other plants have extra chromosomes of standard size; at least six have B-chromosomes. In most collections the bivalents do not differ greatly among themselves in size, but four collections from the Sierra de Guanajuato have strongly asymmetrical karyotypes and also anomalous chromosome numbers (n = 52, 54). In spite of the great variation in their chromosomes, most collections are very similar in their morphology, and, except for the larger flowers of the 14-ploid subspecies grandiflorum, no correlation is apparent between morphology and chromosome number.
23314611|The closely related genera, Clibadium, Desmanthodium, and Ichthyothere (Compositae, Heliantheae) are distributed in Mexico, Central America, and Northern and Central South America. Some of the species of Clibadium (e.g., C. laxum) have drupaceous achenes, which is unusual in the family. Comparative anatomical studies of fruits of the three genera show a strong similarity in the arrangement of the epidermis, hypodermis, and phytomelan and fiber layers. In most regards, Desmanthodium and Ichthyothere are more similar to each other than either is to Clibadium. The method of deposition of the phytomelan in all three genera begins with a series of tubes and cones from the fiber layer followed by patchy deposition of dark resistant material that eventually solidifies into a continuous layer. The phytomelan layer probably functions to protect the developing embryo and may also serve in regulating timing of germination.
23314609|A key to the species of Chaetomorpha and Rhizoclonium found in New England is presented along with a description and review of each species' ecology, distribution, and taxonomic history. Chaetomorpha picquotiana is shown to be an earlier name for C. atrovirens, and discussions concerning the generic placement of Chaetomorpha cannabina and the separation of the genera Chaetomorpha and Rhizoclonium are presented.
23314615|Mayapples (Podophyllum peltatum L.) grow in patches on the forest floor. Controlled pollinations within and between patches, as well as self-pollinations, indicate that the mayapple is self-sterile in only part of its range, and that in this part of the range, the patches are not single clones, i.e. they consist of more than one genotype.
23311078|Eighteen bryophytes new to Massachusetts and fifty-five additional new county records are reported, including the second collection of Pseudocrossidium hornschuchianum from the New World. Significant range extensions are briefly discussed in an annotated list, and additional noteworthy records are presented in an appendix. The bryophyte flora of the state as documented in the literature now stands at 329 species of mosses and 144 species of liverworts.
23311077|Field studies were carried out on the pollination of Sarracenia flava L. during three flowering seasons in relict bogs of the piedmont region of North Carolina. Flowering occurs in latter April into early May, and the most systematic, common, and effective pollinators were found to be queens of Bombus spp. Smaller native bees and Apis mellifera are at best accidental or occasional secondary pollinators, mainly because of infrequency of effective flower visits and the small size of the insects relative to modes of flower entry and exit. Sarcophaga sarraceniae activity around flowers is very rare in this area and is not of any consequence in pollination. Various other aspects of the problem discussed in the literature over the years are reviewed critically, among them the question of protandry. The flowers were found not to be protandrous. Nectar and pollen output in these large, early spring flowers is prodigious, and nectar sugar concentration is 39%. Pollen was weighed and nectar output estimated. Bombus behavior while visiting a flower is described and the relative incidence of insect pollinator autogamy, geitonogamy, and xenogamy is discussed. Numbers of flowers visited in a foray, time in forays and time per flower are recorded.
23311080|Two groups of sugar maples in west central Oklahoma which have been described as relicts were compared by numerical methods to eastern and western U.S. references. The populations of the Wichita Mountains, Comanche Co. have previously been assigned to the equivalent of Acer saccharum Marshall subsp. grandidentatum (Torrey and Gray) Desmarais (sensu lato) by some authorities and to Acer saccharum Marshall subsp. saccharum by others. Those of the Caddo Canyons, Caddo and Canadian counties have been consistently designated as Acer saccharum Marshall subsp saccharum. The two groups have a north-south separation of ca. 80 km. The continuous range of A. s. subsp. saccharum penetrates eastern Oklahoma as an irregular fringe ca. 320 km east of the prairie groups. The closest stations for subsp. A. s. grandidentatum are ca. 480 km west of the Oklahoma locations in the Monzano Mountains of New Mexico and ca. 680 km southwest in the Edwards Plateau of Texas. A principal coordinates analysis of micromeasurements of leaf samples from 160 populations collected in the four major geographic areas (eastern and western U.S. and Caddo Canyons and Wichita Mountains of Oklahoma) supports the hypothesis that the best designation for both Oklahoma groups is A. s. subsp. saccharum. These results indicate that single organs of some plants exhibit a high degree of reliability when extensive micromeasurements are used to detect genetic affinities.
23311081|The green leaves and flowers of Polygala paucifolia occur along the terminal, upright portions of long thin rhizomes that grow out from a small perennial tuber. Each tuber sends out several new rhizomes annually. New tubers are produced at the scale leaf nodes of the horizontal portion of the rhizome through the multiplication of lateral buds and through secondary vascular growth. This mode of vegetative reproduction increases the longevity of a plant and spreads an individual laterally.
23311076|Roots of Rhizophora undergo striking changes in structure as they grow from the open air into the substrate. To test the hypothesis that darkness and oxygen deprivation are responsible for determining root form in the underground environment, above-ground roots were covered with plastic to limit gas exchange, and with foil to block out light. After 9 months growth, roots growing in darkness with restricted gas flow became swollen and branched, as did underground roots. However, in artificially covered roots, axis swelling was due to pith enlargement rather than elaboration of cortex lacunae, as occurs in underground roots. Thus, root plasticity is expressed via a different mechanism when roots are in darkness and deprived of O2 than when they are underground. Other factors, alone or in combination, must govern development of underground Rhizophora roots.
23313709|We investigated current forest composition in relation to land use history at Broad Meadow Brook, a 157 ha urban wildlife sanctuary in Worcester, central Massachusetts. We obtained historical information from aerial photographs dating back to 1938, maps dating to 1831, various published sources, and interviews with long-term residents. We sampled tree vegetation in 35 20 m  20 m plots and understory vegetation in 140 5 m  5 m subplots. We obtained ages of several dozen trees by coring. Most of the sanctuary supported dry, mixed-oak forest that has been subject to frequent fires. Disturbed oak woods bore a greater variety of plants than older oak forest, including several non-native species. Mesic forest supported Fraxinus americana, Acer rubrum, and A. saccharum, with an abundant A. platanoides understory, a legacy of nearby residential plantings. Acer rubrum heavily dominated wet woodland. A small, previously cultivated plot supported an open canopy of A. rubrum with a dense understory of herbs and shrubs and showed little tree regeneration. A wooded dump dating to the early to mid-1900s supported a greater percentage of mesic, early-successional, and non-native species than surrounding dry woodland. Pinus strobus and Tsuga canadensis were rare throughout the sanctuary, a likely result of extensive fires. The site contrasts strongly with Harvard Forest sites 48 km to the northwest in Petersham, Mass., presumably reflecting climatic differences and the greater influence of fire and other human disturbances.
23313707|Agarista bracamorensis has been rediscovered in the Peruvian Andes, near the village of El Espino, near Jan, and the collections reported here represent the first since the type gathering by A. J. A. Bonpland in the early 1800s. A revised description of this species is presented, and it is compared with A. subcordata and A. albiflora, two putative relatives that also occur in northern Peru. The vegetation in which this species occurs is briefly described, including a list of common associated species.
23313708|Lepidium latifolium (perennial pepperweed) is an herbaceous perennial, native to Europe and western Asia, that is now well established at many locations in Massachusetts and Connecticut. This species is considered a major invasive species in the western United States and appears likely to become invasive in the east if left unchecked. We showed that the distribution is greater than previously documented in New England and that populations appear to be expanding. Individuals of the species can produce thousands of seeds and we found that these seeds are tolerant to many days of inundation by salt water so that dispersal by tidal and river currents is likely. In addition, populations can expand at least 2 m/yr from growth by rhizomes, and densities exceeded 50 shoots/m2 in some areas. We identified 17 species of plants that are likely impacted by the expanding populations and 23 families of arthropods associated with L. latifolium in some of these areas. In wetland habitats, repeated pulling of shoots to remove much of the rhizome was effective at stabilizing or eradicating whole, well-defined populations. This treatment was most effective if continued for two or more growing seasons.
23313710|The 1055 ha Strouds Run State Park is located in the southern unglaciated Allegheny Plateau physiographic province in southeastern Ohio. The park has a rugged landscape with steep-sided, narrowly rounded hills and narrow, V-shaped valleys. The vegetation consists mainly of oak-dominated and mixed mesophytic forests but also includes marshes, rock outcrops, and three small prairie-like openings. This study documents the terrestrial vascular flora of Strouds Run State Park and compares it with the flora of the same area reported in 1957. Between 2003 and 2005, 638 species in 367 genera and 108 families were found in the park. This total includes five State-listed, "potentially threatened" taxa: Arabis hirsuta var. adpressipilis, Carex cumberlandensis, Corallorhiza wisteriana, Cystopteris tennesseensis, and Spiranthes ovalis. The number of species increased from 534 to 638 over the course of 49 years, while the percentage of alien species declined from 23.6% to 18.7%. However, the number and abundance of alien species that are invasive have increased greatly since 1957.
23313746|Dogwood anthracnose (Discula destructiva) was first discovered in Illinois in 1995 at Dean Hills Nature Preserve, Fayette County. In the original study, individuals of flowering dogwood (Cornus florida) showed a 97% increase in infection by dogwood anthracnose between July 1995 and August 1996. As all size classes of flowering dogwood were infected, it was predicted that the disease would probably cause the extirpation of this species at the site. Though not extirpated, flowering dogwood has not recovered from the initial infection (1995), when 3475 healthy stems/ha were encountered. Since that initial study, total flowering dogwood stems recorded for the site ranged from a low of 110 stems/ha in 1996, to 540 stems/ha in 2002, and 345 stems/ha in 2004.
23313747|The vascular flora of Izembek National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), where few previous collections had been reported, was collected and recorded at sites selected to represent the totality of environmental variation. A total of 349 species (339 native and 10 introduced) was identified. To provide a comparative phytogeographic framework, we analyzed data from published reports that categorized vascular plant distribution patterns from a circumpolar, North American, and Alaskan perspective. The native flora of the Izembek NWR primarily includes species of circumpolar (38%), eastern Asian (23%), Eurasian (18%), and North American (13%) distribution. The most important longitudinal distributional classes in North America consist of transcontinental (62%) and extreme western species (31%). The annotated list of species in Izembek NWR expands the range of many species, filling a distributional gap in Hultn's Western Pacific Coast district. Forty notable range extensions are reported. The flora of Izembek NWR is primarily made up of boreal species and lacks many of the species considered to be Arctic. Comparison with the Raunkiaer life-form spectrum similarly points to the boreal.
23313745|Isoetes  novae-angliae D.F. Brunt. & D.M. Britton, hyb. nov., represents a sterile hybrid between the tetraploid aquatic pteridophytes I. riparia and I. tuckermanii. It is known only from North Easton, Massachusetts although it formerly likely occurred across the state as well as in Connecticut and southern New Hampshire. Determination of the distribution and nomenclature of this taxon also clarifies the status of a number of early 20th century taxonomic innovations.
23313743|Preanthesis cleistogamy, a form of self-pollination within an enclosed flower prior to opening, was investigated in eight species of Podostemum from South America (P. comatum, P. distichum, P. irgangii, P. muelleri, P. ovatum, P. rutifolium subsp. rutifolium, P. scaturiginum, P. weddellianum) and the North American P. ceratophyllum. Fluorescence microscopy was used to determine whether pollen tubes were present in the stigmas of unopened flowers from 109 collections. Preanthesis cleistogamy was documented in P. weddellianum, representing the second report of this phenomenon in the genus (previously documented in P. ceratophyllum). The 12 collections with preanthesis cleistogamy represent populations from throughout the geographic range of P. weddellianum. It is hypothesized that preanthesis cleistogamy evolved twice within Podostemum, once in P. ceratophyllum and once in P. weddellianum.
23313744|Historical accounts detail numerous uses for poison ivy, poison oak, and other American Toxicodendron spp. (Anacardiaceae), despite their toxicity. The veracity of these accounts has recently been called into question by several sources. In this investigation, a multidisciplinary, hypothesis-driven approach was used to critically evaluate the veracity of such accounts by employing field studies, laboratory experiments, and literature review. Accounts regarding uses in textile production or religious rites were found to be more feasible to evaluate than those pertaining to cooking or medicine. Findings from this study suggest a new interpretation of such accounts and provide novel information regarding both the biology and ethnobotany of these plants.
23314141|The genetic diversity and structure of Quercus rubra L. (Red Oak) in five secondary populations regenerated on old pastures and five paired old-growth populations were compared to determine whether secondary populations may have lost genetic diversity present in the presettlement forest. Old-growth samples had significantly greater nuclear allelic richness than secondary stands at the four microsatellite, simple sequence repeat (SSR), markers tested, but there was no significant difference at three chloroplast SSRs. There was however tenfold greater differentiation (high FST) among secondary forests than among old-growth forests for the chloroplast loci, suggesting greater population isolation at the time of their founding. The young age class in secondary stands had significantly greater chloroplast allelic richness than the old age class, suggesting some recovery as the forest cover increased. Forest cover and patch size at peak deforestation was not correlated with allelic richness in secondary stands, but the power of this test was low. The current size of old-growth stands is, however, positively correlated with levels of genetic diversity. Results suggest that deforestation for agriculture may reduce genetic diversity of forest trees, particularly in the first generation after deforestation, but that some recovery of this diversity is likely in these patchy landscapes. Wind dispersed pollen flow may increase in these areas, but animal dispersed seed flow may be reduced.
23314144|Introduced species make up about 15% of the flora of the Mount Holyoke Range, Hampshire County, Massachusetts, one of the core natural areas in the state. Geographic Information Systems software was used to compare the distribution of sample locations with introduced invasive species, introduced non-invasive species, or only native species as a function of distance from disturbance corridors that included roads and power-line right-of-ways. Habitat preferences were also analyzed for the two groups of introduced species. Thirty-nine percent of 475 geo-referenced sample locations had introduced species. Of these, twice as many had introduced non-invasive species as had introduced invasive species, with Poa compressa the most common species in the first group and Berberis thunbergii the most common in the second group. A high proportion of sample locations for both groups of introduced species were close to disturbance corridors, with about a third of the sample locations with these groups found within 50 m of disturbance corridors and most of the rest found within 300 m. The distributions of both groups of introduced species differed significantly from the distribution of native species, but not from each other. Disturbed habitats had the highest frequency of both groups of introduced species, but their relative frequency differed in other habitats. Introduced invasive species were common in moister habitats, which may restrict their spread in the range, while introduced non-invasive species tended to occupy drier habitats on upper slopes. These more open habitats may function as a refuge for some species in the introduced non-invasive group. However, high frequencies of both groups in disturbed habitats and the similarity in distribution suggests that human activities associated with disturbance corridors and past land use are of major importance in determining the distribution of both groups of introduced species across the landscape.
23314145|Lectotypes are designated for Impatiens fulva Nutt. f. albiflora E.L. Rand & Redfield, and for I. biflora Walter f. immaculata Weath. These are basionyms for two color forms of I. capensis Meerb., indigenous to eastern North America.
23314142|Platanthera sparsiflora is a variable species to which Limnorchis ensifolia and L. laxiflora have been referred. Recently, authors have adopted L. ensifolia for a group of plants that have also been referred to L. laxiflora and P. sparsiflora. None of these existing names apply to a recently delineated but related group, here described as the new species P. tescamnis. This species is distinguished by a small column with short rostellum lobes that position the viscidia above the orifice of the spur. The species exhibits ecological preferences that are unique in the group, occurring at relatively low elevations and in comparatively dry habitats in a hot, arid region. It occurs across the Great Basin and Colorado Plateau and bordering areas in California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado.
23314143|Coastal sandplain heathlands are managed largely by prescribed burning. While it is known that salt spray is an important natural disturbance contributing to the maintenance of coastal heathlands, it is unclear whether fire in coastal areas intensifies the detrimental effects of salt spray on plants growing close to the ocean. We carried out a field experiment to test the interactive effects of fire and salt spray on Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. Following a prescribed fire, one-meter-square plots were established in burned and unburned areas and randomly assigned a control or salt spray treatment. After ten weeks of spray treatments we found that burning stimulated new growth and salt spray consistently increased plant water stress, increased leaf necrosis, and inhibited shoot elongation. Burning did not increase the negative effects of salt spray in individual plants; salt spray and control treated plants growing in burned areas showed less water stress and leaf necrosis than those in unburned areas. This may be due to increased water availability in the burned area resulting from lower biomass and therefore lower competition for water and lower evapotranspiration rates. Burning reduced plant canopy height, decreased vascular plant species richness, and stimulated new growth in plants. Our results suggest that fire indirectly reduces the damaging effects of salt spray by increasing soil water availability and decreasing plant water stress.
23313676|The vascular flora of Coneflower Glacial Drift Hill Prairie Natural Area in Moultrie County, east-central Illinois, was studied during the growing seasons of 2002 and 2003. The prairie is located on a steep SW-facing hillside of the Cerro Gordo Glacial Moraine, overlooking the Kaskaskia River Valley and Lake Shelbyville. The flora was documented by general reconnaissance, and the structure of the vegetation was sampled in September 2003 using 0.25 m2 plots placed along two transects. The site supported 164 vascular plant species (including one named hybrid). The native grasses with the highest importance values were Andropogon gerardii (big bluestem) and Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem). Important forbs included Euphorbia corollata (flowering spurge), Helianthus divaricatus (woodland sunflower), Ratibida pinnata (drooping coneflower), and Comandra umbellata (false toadflax). Exotic species were represented by 28 taxa, 16.4% of the flora. The community had a Floristic Quality Index of 38.82, indicating a site of statewide significance.
23313675|The growth and development of plants is determined by both genetic and environmental factors. In this study, path analysis was employed to investigate the magnitude of developmental variation among six quantitative characters associated with growth in 29 pitch pine (Pinus rigida Mill.) families at Walden Woods, Lincoln, Mass. Seedlings were grown for six months in two environments: sand (poor) and sandy loam (better) with four replications under greenhouse conditions. Data were recorded on stem height and weight, crown height and weight, and total height and weight. Data were analyzed using analysis of variance, heritability, and path analysis. Path analysis measures both direct and indirect effects of independent variables on dependent variables through intermediary variables. Hence, it is a powerful approach for evaluating the causal flow of physiological variables among a system of morphological characters during growth and development. Within this single population of pitch pines, significant genotype-environment interaction was found for most characters. Heritability for four characters was greater for families raised in sand than in sandy loam. Path analysis suggested that the physiological resources may be channeled differentially among various quantitative characters in relation to their environments, indicating that the environment modulates not only the development of individual phenotypic traits but also the relationships among these traits in the entire organism. Moreover we found that environmental effects may overwhelm the genetic expression of a given quantitative trait. Knowledge of relative flexibility/plasticity of individual characters in relation to specific environmental resources may be useful toward understanding developmental biology, growth, and reproduction in plants.
23313672|The survival of populations of rare plant species may be affected both by total levels of seed production and by inbreeding depression expressed upon self-fertilization. We examined natural seed production and rates of self-fertilization in a Nova Scotian lakeshore population of the globally rare Atlantic Coastal Plain plant, Sabatia kennedyana Fernald (Gentianaceae), and determined the effect of self and cross pollinations on fitness at early plant life stages. Seed production was not limited by natural pollination levels. Furthermore, flowers from which pollinators were excluded produced 66% as many seeds as unprotected, naturally pollinated plants, indicating that substantial seed set can occur in the absence of pollinators. The selfing rate of naturally pollinated flowers was estimated as 21% using the inbreeding depression method. Stage-specific inbreeding depression was 19% at germination, and cumulative inbreeding depression from fertilization through germination was 23%. Seed formation (seeds per fertilized ovule) was correlated with proportional germination suggesting linkage or pleiotropy of genes affecting these two life-history stages. Low, early acting inbreeding depression may result from purging of deleterious mutations in low population times during the post-glacial migration of founders into Nova Scotia from the now submerged Continental Shelf habitat. Alternatively, the inbreeding depression values documented for early developmental stages may underestimate its severity at later stages. Crosses between plants in the study population and those at another lake, four km distant, suffered no decrease in performance ("outbreeding depression") at these early life stages.
23313673|Despite the frequent occurrence of hybridization events between broad-leaved members of the genus Potamogeton, few documented reports and descriptions of these taxa are found in North American pondweed literature. Potamogeton crispus and P. praelongus are common broad-leaved pondweed species with overlapping distributions in North America, yet no confirmed report of their hybrid, P.  undulatus, has been previously documented from this continent. We provide the first confirmed report of P.  undulatus in North America, where it was collected from a northeastern Indiana lake. Because most descriptions of P.  undulatus are found in somewhat less accessible nineteenth century European pondweed literature, morphological characters that are diagnostically valuable in distinguishing the hybrid from its parents are discussed and illustrated. A vegetative key to this hybrid and its parental species is also provided.
23313677|A floristic inventory of the remnant pinelands of the U.S.D.A. Subtropical Horticultural Research Station at Chapman Field, Miami-Dade County, Florida was conducted from July 2002 to March 2003. From the two-hectare study site, 159 vascular plant species were documented. These included six ferns and fern allies, two conifers, and 151 angiosperms (representing 49 families and 124 genera). Of the 159 species, 118 are native to North America north of Mexico and 41 are non-native but naturalized. The families with the most species in the study area included Fabaceae (25 spp.), Poaceae (20 spp.), Asteraceae (15 spp.), and Euphorbiaceae (9 spp.). The best-represented genera were Chamaesyce (five spp.), Sida (four spp.), and five genera with three species each: Chamaecrista, Ipomoea, Lantana, Rhynchosia, and Senna. Five species are new records for Miami-Dade County. Ten Florida endemic species, eight Florida threatened species, four Florida endangered species, and one federally listed endangered species were documented.
23313674|Although reported to be essentially glabrous, a hairy ovary summit is characteristic of the fruit of Amelanchier lucida, and this helps to explain some of the variation in its taxonomic treatment by recent authors. In many instances plants would have been identified as A. stolonifera. Flowering material is here described for the first time. The erect racemes have lower pedicels 822 mm long, and petals are 67.5 mm long and 2.53.3 mm wide. At flowering, the leaves are tomentose but towards the end of flowering the thick tomentum is lost from the outer surfaces of the sepals and the larger leaves. Stoloniferous habit, glossy leaves, ascending sepals, and pubescent ovary summit are a distinctive combination of features of A. lucida. A key to the stoloniferous species of Amelanchier in Nova Scotia is included.
23313595|Although rare plant species are widely regarded as threatened by invasive plant species, few concrete data document the actual prevalence of invasives at sites with rare plant species. Data from comprehensive Conservation and Research Plans produced by the New England Wild Flower Society for 81 species of state-listed plants in New England provide quantitative information on the biogeographic distribution of invasive species where rare plants occur; their associations with multiple habitat variables and other threats; and hypothesized correlations with declines of rare plant populations. Eighteen invasive species were identified as co-occurring with rare plants; Lythrum salicaria was the most frequent and widespread. The spatial distribution of invasive species at rare plant sites paralleled large-scale patterns of both rare and invasive species richness and frequency throughout the region. However, invasive species occurred at only a subset of rare species sites, principally clustered along major rivers in New England. Connecticut reported the highest frequency and diversity of invasives, which declined with latitude. Invasives co-occurred with 38 (47%) of 81 rare species at 10.4% of 820 rare plant populations studied. For affected rare taxa, invasive species posed threats to a mean of 37.7% of their New England populations. Paired comparisons of invaded and uninvaded rare plant populations revealed a significant association of invasives with roads and with other anthropogenic threats. Populations of rare taxa in proximity to invasives showed higher (but statistically insignificant) rates of decline; classification analysis indicated that decline was best explained by the same habitat variables that were associated with invasive species presence, rather than by the presence of invasives alone. Thus, invasive species are both a direct threat and a symptom of larger landscape variables that influence the persistence of rare species.
23313598|The United Plant Savers' (UpS) botanical sanctuary in southeastern Ohio was created to protect native medicinal plants by protecting their habitat. Located in the southern unglaciated Allegheny Plateau physiographic province, this 155 ha preserve is 70% (110 ha) deciduous forest, 30% (45 ha) old fields, and contains one small opening that was surveyed to determine whether it was a remnant prairie. A floristic survey of the vascular plants of the wooded portions of the sanctuary and the opening revealed 358 species in 238 genera and 97 families. This total includes two state-listed, "potentially threatened" species: Corallorhiza wisteriana and Juglans cinerea. Nine percent of the species identified are nonnative to southeastern Ohio. The vegetation found in the opening does not indicate that it is actually a prairie.
23313597|The Hispaniolan species of Miconia section Cremanium with setose-serrate leaves (i.e., the M. desportesii complex) include M. desportesii, M. tetrastoma, M. monciona, and M. sphagnicola. Species descriptions, nomenclatural information, specimen citations, and eco-geographical characterizations for these species are presented, along with an identification key. These species occur from 800 to 2400 m elevation in moist montane forests, moist forests on limestone, cloud forests, and moist forests of Pinus occidentalis. All are endemic to Hispaniola and restricted in distribution except for M. tetrastoma, which is more widespread and also occurs in Cuba.
23313596|Jaltomata andersonii (Solanaceae), here named, is distributed on the western slope of the Andes, in the Departments of Ancash and Lima, Peru, from 2300 to 3400 m of elevation. This species differs from others of the genus by having an unarticulated axis connecting the flower to the plant where all others have both a peduncle and a pedicel. The following combination of features also characterize this species: the hairs of leaves and axes are gland-tipped; the petiole is no longer than 1 cm; the flowers are solitary; the corolla is broadly crateriform-rotate, purple, and up to 3.7 cm in diameter; and the filaments are extremely villous at their bases.
23313650|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Pseudosmodingium (Anacardiaceae) is presented. The genus consists of four extant and two fossil species endemic to Mexico. The extant species are small trees from tropical dry forests. The two fossil species have been described from Oligocene strata from Puebla in Central Mexico. Among extant species, P. andrieuxii and P. multifolium were considered previously as separate taxa; however, we concluded based on both vegetative and floral characters that they can be assigned to the same species, P. andrieuxii. The rest of the species (P. barkleyi, P. perniciosum, and P. virletii) are very similar to one another in floral morphology, but variable in leaf morphology. Comments, descriptions, additional notes, specimen citations, distribution, diagnoses, and a key for the extant species of Pseudosmodingium are presented.
23313648|Keys and descriptions are presented for the 16 species of Physalis (Solanaceae) commonly found growing without cultivation in the southeastern United States, as well as for two cultivated species that sometimes escape and persist in disturbed habitats. The study was initiated as part of the Southeast Flora Project, and will ultimately be incorporated into the treatment of the genus for the Flora of North America.
23313649|Vernal pools are common on the Columbia Plateau of eastern Washington, where they occur on basalt bedrock within the channels scoured by the Pleistocene Missoula Floods. This is the first extensive floristic survey of these pools. Eighty-five percent of the 283 plant taxa are native, and the majority of these are annual. The Washington vernal pools have strong floristic affinities with their counterparts in California; 34% of the native species and 65% of genera in the Columbia Plateau pools also occur in California vernal pools. The remainder include numerous regional and locally endemic taxa. The total native flora is two-thirds that of the California vernal pools, but the average per-pool taxon richness in Washington is greater.
23314753|Canada mayflower (Maianthemum canadense) is a rhizomatous, perennial herb whose genets consist of multiple ramets. In a given year, ramets exist as either flowering or vegetative shoots. The production of a flowering shoot requires the commitment of the apical meristem. The identity of ramets (vegetative, flowering, or absent) directly basipetal and acropetal to a focal ramet along a linear rhizome is here termed the context of the focal ramet. A given ramet may transition from one context to another over a given year. Transitions in shoot type (a consequence of meristem commitment) occur within a developmental phase while transitions involving loss of genet integrity (a consequence of fragmentation) result in a change in phase. Each ramet begins as an acropetal ramet and transitions through several phases before becoming "isolated" (not connected to a basipetal or acropetal ramet). In this study, ages of ramets varied significantly, with flowering shoots more likely to be produced by older ramets than vegetative shoots. Isolated ramets were older on average than ramets in all other phases. The contexts and phases occupied by vegetative ramets differed significantly from those occupied by flowering ramets. Ramets producing a flowering shoot were more likely than expected to be isolated (> 50% in both years) while isolated ramets with a vegetative shoot were more likely than expected to produce a flowering shoot in the following year. Ramets with a vegetative shoot were more likely than expected to produce a vegetative shoot next year if the ramet was connected to both basipetal and acropetal ramets.
23314754|A floristic inventory of Morningside Nature Center in Alachua County, Florida, was conducted from May 2001 to April 2003. From the 112.5-hectare park, 527 vascular plant species were collected (not including hybrids). These included 9 ferns, 5 conifers, and 513 angiosperms (representing 103 families and 310 genera). Of the 527 species, 456 were native to North America north of Mexico and 71 were non-native but naturalized. Five plant communities are recognized in the park: pine flatwoods, which cover 53.6% of the park; sandhills, which cover 21.5% of the park; ruderal areas, which cover 20.1% of the park; cypress swamps, which cover 4.4% of the park; and flatwoods depressions, which cover 0.4% of the park. The plant families best represented at Morningside include the Asteraceae with 71 species, Poaceae with 60 species, Fabaceae with 42 species, Cyperaceae with 32 species, Ericaceae with 15 species, Lamiaceae with 15 species, and Euphorbiaceae with 14 species. The largest genera at Morningside include Quercus (11 species and 2 named hybrids), Desmodium (9 spp.), Cyperus and Hypericum (8 spp. each), and Asclepias and Rhynchospora (7 spp. each). Twenty-two species are new records for Alachua County. Nine species growing at Morningside were found to be at or near the northern or southern limits of their range. Finally, six Florida endemics (or near endemics) were found in the park.
23314752|Fossil leaves assigned to the disjunct rosaceous genus Neviusia A. Gray, N. dunthornei DeVore, Moore, Pigg & Wehr sp. nov. (Rosaceae, tribe Kerrieae) are described from the lower-middle Eocene One Mile Creek locality near the town of Princeton, southern British Columbia, Canada. The leaves are elliptic to broadly ovate, seven-lobed, up to 4.9 cm long  5.6 cm wide with craspedodromous venation and two to three sizes of marginal teeth. They bear a striking resemblance to N. cliftonii Shevock, Ertter & Taylor, the recently discovered species of the Mount Shasta area of northern California, and differ markedly from the type species N. alabamensis A. Gray of southeastern North America. The occurrence in the Okanogan Highlands of N. dunthornei marks the first fossil evidence for the small, rosaceous tribe Kerrieae, and further documents the lower-middle Eocene as a time of major radiation of many temperate families, including the Rosaceae.
23314755|Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time for 303 individuals of 112 taxa and cultivars and five hybrids from 16 genera, nearly all from eastern Canada and the eastern United States. Counts for several taxa from China, Japan, the United Kingdom and for several garden cultivars of Old World taxa are reported. Also included are seven corrections and changes of identifications for previously published reports for taxa in Solidago. The majority of the reports are for asters listed in this paper under the generic name Symphyotrichum (including Virgulus) plus species of Aster (including Asteromoea, Diplactis, and Kalimeris), Callistephus, Doellingeria, Eurybia, Galatella, Ionactis, Oclemena, and Sericocarpus, and for goldenrods in Solidago and Euthamia. The following are first reports for the taxa: Aster pyrenaeus cv. "Lutetia", 2n = 36 + 24 supernumeraries, cult. Ontario; Solidago altiplanities, 2n = 18 from Texas; S. arenicola, 2n = 36 from Alabama; S. glomerata 2n = ca. 126 (14x) from North Carolina; S. speciosa subsp. pallida, 2n = 18 from South Dakota; Symphyotrichum plumosum, 2n = 8 (two populations) from Florida; and S. tradescanti, 2n = 32 from Maine. All other counts confirm previous reports for the taxa. A number of the reports are for rare taxa in Ontario: Solidago arguta, 2n = 18, first count for Ontario; Symphyotrichum praealtum var. praealtum, 2n = 32; S. prenanthoides, 2n = 32, first counts for Ontario (8 populations); and S. shortii, 2n = 16. A number of the counts are first reports for a particular taxon in a state (e.g., Solidago altissima subsp. altissima, 2n = 36 from Tennessee; S. brachyphylla, 2n = 18 from Florida; S. canadensis var. hargeri, 2n = 18 from Virginia; Symphyotrichum novae-angliae, 2n = 10 from Georgia and North Carolina; S. priceae, 2n = 64 from Georgia). Differences in the karyotypes of Old and New World species of asters are discussed.
23314756|The vegetation of an eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis)-white pine (Pinus strobus) stand at Arcadia Wildlife Sanctuary, Easthampton, Massachusetts, was studied in 1963, in 1975, and again in 199899. Hemlock remained dominant from 1963 through 1999 despite extensive mortality of smaller stems. White pine and two minor canopy species, red maple (Acer rubrum) and black cherry (Prunus serotina), also declined. Changes in stem size structure of tree populations within the stand may have reflected in part increasing stand maturity, resulting in fewer and larger trees. In addition, low recruitment into the canopy and numerous tree deaths between 1963 and 1975 occurred at a time of widespread regional drought. Tree seedlings, nearly absent from the site in 1963, were well established by 1975, approximately five years after rainfall amounts returned to normal levels, but extensive mortality of canopy trees continued through 1998, particularly hemlock and black cherry. Tree deaths during this latter period coincided with defoliation by gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar) and wind throw during severe ice storms in the winter of 19961997. Hemlock wooly adelgids (Adelges tsugae) were not observed at the site until after the 1998 sampling; thus this study may serve as a baseline for assessing adelgid damage in the future.
23313496|Two new species of Gesneriaceae from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica from the genera Paradrymonia and Nautilocalyx are described and illustrated. A new name in Nautilocalyx is proposed for P. bullata and a full description is provided.
23313494|An investigation of the vascular plant flora of the wetlands in the Chapare, an extremely high-precipitation region along the base of the Bolivian Andes, was undertaken from 1994 to 1996. One hundred fifty-one species in 52 families and 107 genera were identified as occurring in the region's wetlands. In contrast to the terrestrial flora of the Chapare and of other regions in the Andean forelands, Chapare wetlands were found to be characteristically species-poor (549 species). Nevertheless, the Chapare wetland flora contained a number of rare or noteworthy species, and represented the southern distributional limit for a number of taxa. The diversity of Chapare "wetland species" (i.e., species considered to be strongly associated with Neotropical wetlands) was low relative to other South American lowland regions when considered in terms of total number of species and from species-area curves. A regional trend toward fewer wetland species with increased precipitation was apparent; however, data supporting this relationship were inconclusive. Despite low floristic similarities (Srensen's Index) between study sites, the majority of the Chapare study sites were closely situated in an ordination by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) of the floras of 46 wetlands distributed throughout Bolivia. At the regional scale, floristic similarities with other regions considered in this study were relatively low. As might be expected, an ordination of the regional data indicated that the Chapare wetland flora was most strongly associated with the other lowland Bolivian regions, while the most geographically distant regions were also the furthest removed in ordination space.
23313495|Neidium rudimentarum is a rare species identified from only two localities in the United States. Rudimentary canals on either side of the valve, that extend 1025 m from the terminal apices, are unique to this species within the genus. At the internal termination point, the canals open into chambered areolae that form a well-developed matrix of interconnected chambers. In addition to the canals, linear slits are unique for the external opening of the areolae. The type locality Bluehole pool/Inskip River, New Jersey is a cool-water, oligotrophic system with a groundwater source from the Potomac-Raritan-Magothy aquifer. Neidium hamatum, from Rio Tapajs, Brazil is the closest known taxon in general morphology, however it has complete longitudinal canals extending from apex to apex. The rudimentary canal of this species is in distinct contrast to the multiple canals of N. tumescens and is thus far unique within the genus Neidium sensu lato.
23313632|Platt Park is a 43.3-hectare (107-acre) natural area situated in the Southwest Hills Eco-region of Southbury, in New Haven County, Connecticut. Characterized by Triassic sandstone and trap rock ridges, the area offers a diversity of habitats for plant life. This investigation of the vegetation types of Platt Park provides information relevant to the preservation and management of natural areas and critical habitats. Abundance data derived from 263 quadrats were analyzed by the computer program TWINSPAN, circumscribing seven cover types. These cover types are: the Wolffia spp. Cover Type, the Bromus inermis Cover Type, the Juniperus virginianaCarex pensylvanica Cover Type, the Acer saccharumOstrya virginiana Cover Type, the A. saccharumBerberis thunbergiiLindera benzoin Cover Type, and the Tsuga canadensis Cover Type. A ShrublandWoodland Cover Type was also represented, comprising mainly introduced and cultivated species. Each cover type and its corresponding habitat are discussed in the context of the flora of the state and region.
23313631|We present a comprehensive vascular flora of the Acadia National Park region of Maine based on over 20 years of recent fieldwork and a compilation of historic records and vouchers. We documented 1135 taxa of vascular plants (1055 species, 448 genera in 110 families) in the Acadia National Park region: 1079 taxa from Mount Desert Island, 708 taxa from Isle au Haut, and 398 taxa from Schoodic Peninsula. Over 20% of the taxa in the catalogue are historic records and have not been documented in the study area since 1980. Forty-five taxa historically published as extant in the study area were misidentified and are therefore not included in the flora. Non-native taxa represent 25% of the regional flora, 24 of these are invasive. Fourteen taxa listed as endangered or threatened in Maine have been documented in the study area, 12 of which have been observed within the last 10 years.
23314131|The vascular plant community in a freshwater tidal wetland on the lower Connecticut River was studied in 2000. The effects of abiotic conditions on density and species density of plants in 70 samples, each 0.25 m2 in area, were characterized. Sixty species were recorded. The mean species density was highest in shallow water because the number of emergent species in the community was far greater than the number of submerged species, which occurred with higher frequency in deeper water. Plant density had a bimodal distribution because of the different responses of emergent and submerged plants to water depth and was lowest in shallow water, where physiological stress, physical disturbance, and possibly herbivory are suspected of being limiting. Ordination and regression analyses found that water depth and the amount of organic matter and nitrogen in the sediment had the greatest effect on wetland plant density, although other variables also were influential. Abundance of emergent and submerged species differed in their responses to ammonium and nitrate levels. Overall species density was most strongly correlated with water depth. Several plant associations, including associations of submerged and emergent species, were identified, based on shared affinities for environmental conditions.
23314129|An unexpected concentration of calcicole mosses and lichens has been discovered at and near a small spring seep on the granite headwall of the North Basin of Mt. Katahdin, Piscataquis County, Maine. Water samples from the spring were circumneutral and high in calcium ion content, whereas other springs, ponds, and streams on the mountain tested acidic and low in calcium. Because the Katahdin granite contains no primary carbonate minerals, it is suggested that the source of calcium enrichment in the North Basin spring water is secondary calcium carbonate (calcite) precipitated in cavities and fractures near the base of the upper Katahdin granite and its subsequent dissolution and mobilization by percolating groundwater. Plagioclase, epidote, and other calcic minerals in the granite supply the primary calcium ions. The moss calcicoles grew in small discontinuous patches on wet humified peaty soil over alpine bedrock ledges in communities having floristics and water chemistry similar to lowland rich fens. Present in or near the seep were mosses previously unrecorded for New England or Maine [Loeskypnum wickesiae (Grout) Tuom., Neckera oligocarpa Bruch in Hartm., Pseudoleskea radicosa (Mitt.) Mac. & Kindb., Tortella tortuosa var. fragilifolia (Jur.) Limpr., Warnstorfia sarmentosa (Wahlenb.) Hedens], one lichen [Hymenelia cyanocarpa (Anzi) Lutzoni], reported here for the first time from North America, and another lichen (Thelidium minutulum Krb.) for the first time from the contiguous United States. An area adjacent to the seep, but unaffected by calcareous seep-water, was remarkable for a concentration of rare lichen species of acidic rocks, including Catillaria contristans (Nyl.) Zahlbr. and Lecanora caesiosora Poelt, that have not previously been reported from North America. The bryophyte and lichen flora of the seep area is an example of a Holocene alpine microrefugium. Refugia such as these can serve as a source of propagules that allow new populations to establish elsewhere in mountainous terrain, or beyond, during climatic and other environmental change. Therefore, extant, cryptic microrefugia are important biogeographically and especially worthy of preservation efforts.
23314132|The genus Diodella of Small is not synonymous with Hedyotis  Diodella as is indicated in Index Nominum Genericorum. The two taxa have different nomenclatural types and belong to different tribes of the Rubiaceae. The first mentioned has a single seed in each locule and the second has many seeds. The stipules and seeds also differ markedly. Consequently the spermacocoid genus Diodella (typified by the type of Diodia rigida) is strongly distinguished from Hedyotis  Diodella [typified by the type of Hedyotis boscii DC. = Oldenlandia boscii (DC.) Chapm.] by many significant morphological features and should not be confused with it. The type of Small's genus Diodella is the type specimen of D. rigida, a perennial species not known to occur in the United States, although mistakenly included by Long and Lakela as well as by Small. The closely related but annual Diodella teres is common and widely distributed throughout much of the eastern United States, Mexico, Central America, and the Greater Antilles as well as tropical South America. The perennial Diodella rigida (= Diodia apiculata K. Schum.) is found in southern Mexico and throughout much of Central America, the Antilles, and northern and eastern South America. Possibly a case could be made for conserving Diodella with a new typefrom a species that both occurs in southern Florida and is an annual as specified in the protologue. However, conservation seems both unnecessary and undesirable since there are at least two validly published and available generic names with priority over Diodella.
23314130|Five infraspecific taxa have been recognized in Cymopterus glomeratus (= C. acaulis): vars. glomeratus (= acaulis), fendleri, greeleyorum, higginsii, and parvus. The results of previous phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequence and morphological data have supported the close association of these five varieties, although the relationships among them could not be discerned. The recognition of infraspecific taxa within C. glomeratus is controversial. Multivariate analysis of variance and principal component analysis of 288 specimens representing the morphological variability and geographic distribution of this species complex were conducted to test the validity of these infraspecific taxa. Results show that most of the characters previously used to recognize these varieties are highly variable within the taxa. Although analysis of variance demonstrated some statistical differences among the varieties, patterns were not consistent. No clearly separated clusters are revealed in the principal component analysis and all five varieties were intermixed on the plots of the principal components. On the basis of the results of both phylogenetic and multivariate analyses, we propose that plants in this species complex be recognized as one species, C. glomeratus, with no varieties. The nomenclature and typification of this species are presented.
23314508|Long-term reassessment of floristic diversity in created wetlands is needed to gain an understanding of how wetlands created for mitigation mature floristically. A thorough floristic survey of a 17-year old created wetland in southeastern New Hampshire was conducted to compare current data to a 1992 floristic study of the site. The flora in 2002 included 110 species, whereas the total number of species recorded in 1992 was 101. Not only had diversity increased, but the flora had changed in a 10-year span; the floristic lists of the two years showed 79 shared species. Srensen's Index of Similarity revealed a floristic similarity of 75%. Carex atherodes, new to the site in 2002, represents a new state record for New Hampshire. As there is a great need for long-term evaluation of mitigation wetlands, these data contribute toward a better understanding of the maturation of created wetlands, and can be used to make more meaningful floristic comparisons with natural wetlands and evaluate the long term success of wetland mitigation projects.
23314501|A study of six wetlands of the Bolivian Cloud Forest was undertaken from 1994 to 1997. Seventy-five species, in 29 families and 49 genera, were identified as being associated with wetland habitats in the Bolivian Cloud Forest. The flora was composed of a mixture of fairly common, ruderal species and of species typical of high Andean (alpine/Puna) aquatic systems. In contrast to the terrestrial flora of cloud forest habitats, these wetlands were found to contain few endemic or rare species. At the site level, it appeared that the wetlands could be characterized as species-poor relative to wetlands in most other Bolivian regions; however, this determination was confounded by a disproportionate number of ponds (a characteristically species-poor wetland type) among the cloud forest study sites. Floristic similarities (Srensen's Index) between cloud forest study sites were relatively low; nevertheless, these systems were closely grouped in an ordination by Detrended Correspondence Analysis of 46 wetlands from throughout Bolivia. Regional-scale diversity comparisons were confounded by the inability to confidently estimate the area of inundated habitat in the Bolivian Cloud Forest. However, it appeared that diversity in the cloud forest wetlands was substantially lower than that of terrestrial cloud forest habitats. Likewise, it appeared that the Bolivian Cloud Forest wetland flora was species-poor relative to wetland floras of other Bolivian regions. Floristic similarities were low between the Bolivian Cloud Forest and other regions within Bolivia and in various South and Central American montane regions. An ordination of the regional data suggested that the Bolivian Cloud Forest wetland flora was most closely associated with the other two Bolivian montane regions included in this analysis.
23314503|An inventory of the bryophyte flora of Mt. Everett and vicinity, southwestern Massachusetts, a 795 m mountain with an unusual dwarf Pinus rigida (pitch pine) summit forest, produced records for 109 mosses and 45 liverworts (153 species and one variety). The summit pine vegetation contained some bryophytes known to occur in lowland pitch pine forest elsewhere in the northeastern United States, but no species unique to this vegetation type. Some species more characteristic of higher elevation mountains with red spruce-balsam fir forest in the northeastern United States were present in the summit and subsummit areas of Mt. Everett, especially the latter. These azonal northern bryophytes may be descendents of populations of species that were more abundant in the past. Species richness on the mountain increased from summit to lowland, and the subsummit area contained more species than the summit forest area. Substantial differences exist between the bryofloras of Mt. Everett and Mt. Greylock, Massachusetts, 70 km to the north, reflecting edaphic and climatic dissimilarities between the two areas. Bryum flaccidum, Plagiomnium medium, Pseudotaxiphyllum distichaceum, and Sphagnum quinquefarium, on the basis of collections from Mt. Everett and vicinity, are added to the flora of Massachusetts.
23314505|Sporocladopsis jackii is a new species of green seaweed from eastern Canada and Maine. The species is abundant in late summer and is a conspicuous part of the epizoic flora on living shells of the mud snail, Ilyanassa obsoleta. The alga comprises a densely packed, branched filamentous base from which arise numerous unbranched to sparsely branched erect free axes. Multicellular attenuate hairs are rare to common and terminal on erect axes. Sporangia are clavate, terminal or lateral, usually borne singly, and produced abundantly in summer. Prior floristic accounts from eastern North America may have included S. jackii under the name Pilinia rimosa, now known to refer to a phaeophyte. Pulse amplitude modulation fluorometry of chlorophyll fluorescence (Phyto-PAM) for pigment analysis confirm microscopic observations of the communities living on snails as consisting of primarily Cyanobacteria and Chlorophyta.
23314506|Interspecific relationships of Betula remain elusive, making it difficult to examine morphological diversification and historical biogeography of the genus. In this study, sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to estimate relationships within Betula. Subgenera and sections or subsections, as traditionally circumscribed, are not monophyletic. Morphological characters traditionally used to categorize major groupings of Betula may have independently evolved more than once, including the shrubby habit and racemose female catkin arrangement. Betula maximowicziana is not united with other species of section Betulaster, which is unique in having a racemose female catkin arrangement and poorly developed side lobes of bracts. However, Betula nigra of section Eubetula falls within section Betulaster. Three biogeographic disjunctions are recognized in Betula, two between eastern Asia and eastern North America (B. costataB. alleghaniensis and B. alnoidesB. nigra) and one between central Asia and eastern North America (B. medwediewiB. lenta). Our results support the closer affinity of B. uber, which is an endangered species in eastern North America, to B. lenta than to B. alleghaniensis. Nonetheless, interspecific relationships of Betula are generally weakly supported due to the small number of informative characters of the DNA region, and more data are needed to further test the hypotheses.
23313639|The non-native vascular flora of Massachusetts is listed with earliest and latest dates of occurrence. Each entry is annotated to indicate which taxa have become established members of the flora and which have not. Specimen data were compiled from over 25 herbaria, supplemented by reports from early floristic publications. A total of 1317 non-native taxa are documented; 737 are treated as established members of the state's flora (29% of the flora); 23 taxa persist at or near former human habitations (1%); 559 taxa are treated as non-established waifs (22%). The current figure of 30% alien taxa is similar to other New England states and is a significant reduction from the 45% tallied in the 1999 state flora. A revised statistical summary of the state's vascular flora is provided.
23313638|Rich Mesic Forest, a Northeastern variant of the species-rich Mixed Mesophytic Forest association of eastern North America, is an Acer saccharumdominated forest type typically associated with calcareous bedrock and nutrient-rich, mull soils. Rich Mesic Forest (RMF) is a priority for conservation in the Northeast due to its limited areal extent, high plant species richness, and numerous rare taxa, yet the community characteristics and environmental correlates of this forest type are incompletely understood. This study undertook a quantitative classification of RMF of the northeastern edge of the Berkshire Plateau in western Massachusetts. Cluster analysis of data from ten sites identified two vegetation types within the RMF community, the Acer saccharumAllium tricoccumCaulophyllum thalictroides Type (AAC) and the Acer saccharumDicentra cucullariaPolystichum acrostichoides Type (ADP); in addition, two subtypes were distinguished within ADP. Ordination of vegetation data using detrended correspondence analysis identified increased soil pH and calcium concentration as key environmental factors associated with variation within RMF and differentiation of RMF from the typical northern and transition hardwoods vegetation of the region. On sites with high soil pH and nutrients, vegetation variation was primarily associated with physiography, particularly the presence of exposed bedrock and solar insolation levels as controlled by slope and aspect. Occurrences of RMF on steep sites with frequent bedrock exposures and high insolation provide habitat for uncommon plant species reaching their northeastern range limits in the Northeast, and are of particular interest for biodiversity conservation. Comparisons between the results of this study in western Massachusetts and prior research on Mesophytic Forests in other regions of eastern North America illustrate a striking constancy in species composition, with over 70% of common species in Mesophytic Forests of the Southeast and Midwest also being recorded in RMF in our study region.
23313303|Jaltomata paneroi (Solanaceae) of northern Peru is described and illustrated. This is the only species in the genus that has a green, campanulate-rotate corolla 2325 mm across and 510 mm deep. This species, and at least six others of the genus, provide red floral nectar. This species is self-compatible and its berries are eaten by humans.
23313305|Morphological and nuclear ribosomal Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) sequence data were used to examine relationships among the genera in the Corylopsis complex, comprising Corylopsis, Distylium, Eustigma, Fortunearia, and Sinowilsonia. The ITS-2 based cladogram had the lowest resolution, whereas the ITS-1 and the pooled data of ITS-1 and ITS-2 produced similar phylogenies with complete resolution of intergeneric relationships within the complex. Both morphological data and ITS DNA sequences support separation of Corylopsis from the other genera, and a closer relationship of Sinowilsonia to Fortunearia than to Distylium. The monophyly of Eustigma-Fortunearia-Sinowilsonia was supported by the ITS sequence data. This study substantiates Endress's recent interpretation of the intergeneric relationships in the Corylopsis complex. The ITS phylogeny also supports the hypothesis that floral structures in members of the Corylopsis complex appear to have been modified for wind pollination in the course of evolution.
23313307|A classification of the American species of the tropical fern genus Oleandra is presented along with a review of previous work on the genus. This treatment contrasts with earlier work by reduction of a number of taxa that have been based on variable species. The American species are reduced to four; those that occur in Africa, Asia, and Pacific islands are also briefly noted.
23313310|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine achene epidermal features in species of Carex section Mitratae and the allied section Acrocystis found in Turkey. Members of section Mitratae share a particular achene phenotype. Micromorphological characters appear to be conservative, and show little variation between species of section Mitratae. Comparative data of achene micromorphology support the placement of C. tomentosa within section Acrocystis.
23313304|Lichens in the genus Cladonia are characterized by an erect, photosynthetic secondary thallus called a podetium. Growth of the podetium is influenced primarily by a meristem-like bundle of fungal tissue near the apex, which lacks direct contact with the algal host. In most Cladonia species the podetium, whether branched or unbranched, grows perpendicular to the growing surface and the habit of the podetium is erect. Apothecia are borne apically and they are generally upward-facing. In C. incrassata, vertical growth may be interrupted very early in ontogeny, resulting in mature podetia that are deflexed. In these podetia, the hymenial (spore-bearing) surface of the apothecium faces the growing surface instead of facing upward. In addition to variability of their habit, mature podetia of C. incrassata may be branched or unbranched. When branching occurs it is initiated by divisions of the fungal meristem, either early in ontogeny or later, as a by-product of the migration of the meristem during deflexion. Unbranched podetia are narrow, club-like structures with a more or less continuous outer layer, or they may be wide with a flabelliform-hooded habit and a deeply fissured exterior. Branched podetia resemble C. cristatella, which has contributed to confusion in the taxonomic literature surrounding this species.
23313309|Eighteen moss species new to Massachusetts and 194 additional county records are reported. The new state records are briefly discussed. All county records are listed in an appendix. The moss flora of Massachusetts now stands at 356 species and 16 varieties.
23313306|This poorly understood and confusing group is centered around Cyperus retroflexus, until recently known as C. uniflorus. Typification of C. uniflorus var. pumilus is discussed, and the following new combination is made: C. retroflexus var. pumilus. Two varieties of C. uniflorus are discussed and elevated to species: C. floribundus and C. pseudothyrsiflorus. Included is a dichotomous key treating the aforementioned taxa and putative allies of C. pseudothyrsiflorus: C. hermaphroditus, C. lentiginosus, C. tenuis, and C. thyrsiflorus.
23313308|Tridens flavus is reported for the first time from Wisconsin, where specimens from 15 sites in eight southern counties were collected between 1961 and 1997. Nine of these sites were discovered after 1990. In 1997, this grass was collected in three northwestern Illinois counties from which it is previously unreported. Evidence of the recent spread north by this species is discussed.
23313321|The slopes of log-log species-area curves have been studied extensively and found to be influenced by the range of areas under study. Two such studies of eastern United States floras have yielded species-area curve slopes which differ by more than 100%: 0.251 and 0.113. The first slope may be too steep because the flora of the world was included, and both may be too steep because noncontiguous areas were used. These two hypotheses were tested using a set of nested floras centered in Ohio and continuing up to the flora of the world. The results suggest that this set of eastern United States floras produces a log-log species-area curve with a slope of approximately 0.20 with the flora of the world excluded, and regardless of whether or not the floras are from nested areas. Genera- and family-area curves are less steep than species-area curves and show similar patterns. Taxa ratio curves also increase with area, with the species/family ratio showing the steepest slope.
23313323|In order to determine the likelihood of hybridization involving Ranunculus gmelinii and R. hyperboreus, petal length, presence or absence of receptacle pubescence, pollen stainability, and maximum leaf lobe number were recorded in 60 plants from throughout boreal and arctic North America. Within a group of 37 plants with pubescent receptacles, and thus referable to R. gmelinii, a subgroup of 16 with aborted pollen had significantly fewer leaf lobes based on the Kruskal-Wallis test, suggesting that they were hybrids of R. gmelinii and R. hyperboreus. The type specimens of R. hyperboreus var. turquetilianus and R. yukonensis have high percentages of aborted pollen and both are referred to R. gmelinii  R. hyperboreus. Past emphasis on phenotypic plasticity and a lack of understanding of the potential importance of hybridization may be limiting to necessary improvements in classification.
23313318|Little Dollar Lake peatland is a 14 ha, lake-fill, poor fen peatland complex on Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Field studies over three years revealed the peatland to be composed of seven contiguous mats characterized by several habitats. These habitats included narrow floating mats; extensive grounded mats with hummock-hollow zonation dominated by Sphagnum spp., Chamaedaphne calyculata, and Carex oligosperma; and a lagg adjacent to the upland. Lagg habitats were dominated by Carex spp. and Calamagrostis canadensis. The bryophyte flora of the peatland was characterized by eleven species of Sphagnum that dominated the floating and grounded mats surrounding Little Dollar Lake. The total bryophyte flora (liverworts, peat mosses, and mosses) consisted of 36 species while the vascular flora (pteridophytes, gymnosperms, and angiosperms) consisted of 93 species.
23313319|A new species of octoploid, dry-fruited prickly-pear (Opuntia subgenus Opuntia), O. pinkavae, is described from the ArizonaUtah boundary region. Opuntia pinkavae is most closely allied with O. aurea, a dry-fruited endemic, although its gross morphology resembles that of O. macrorhiza, a fleshy-fruited species.
23313320|Sequence data of the chloroplast matK gene generated a phylogeny of Liquidambar containing two robust clades. One clade consisted of the Chinese species L. acalycina and L. formosana, while the other was composed of L. orientalis from Turkey and the North American L. styraciflua. The data support a close relationship between the western Asian and North American species, but not the division of Liquidambar into section Cathayambar (L. formosana) and section Euliquidambar (L. acalycina, L. orientalis and L. styraciflua). Sequence divergence of the matK gene ranged from 0.1 to 1.0% among Liquidambar species and the estimated divergence times of the disjunct species in the genus were 4590 mya, which agrees with the fossil record.
23313322|A synopsis of the genus Macropharynx is provided. Macropharynx renteriae is reported for the first time from Mesoamerica. A new combination, M. steyermarkii is proposed here.
23313291|Isoetes appalachiana, sp. nov., is an element of the I. engelmannii complex of North America. Its distinct cytology, spore morphology, and distribution are illustrated and described. Although widely distributed in the eastern United States, it appears to be most common in the Appalachian Mountains. Isoetes appalachiana is tetraploid; it is suspected to be an allopolyploid which evolved from the chromosome doubling of I.  altonharvillii, the sterile hybrid between I. engelmannii (s. str.) and I. valida.
23313292|Propagation of the endangered hemiparasite Schwalbea americana was conducted in the presence of several species of potential host plants. Seeds were germinated and the seedlings transferred to pots containing potential host plants. Potted seedlings and potential hosts then were transplanted to field sites adjacent to a population of S. americana from which the seed had been collected. Germination of seedlings was >90% after a wet-cold treatment; a dry-cold treatment resulted in low germination. Seedlings grown in association with seedlings of the grass Schizachyrium scoparium did not differ in size or longevity from seedlings grown alone. Growth of seedlings was slightly greater in the presence of host plants than without, but seedlings still achieved only limited size in greenhouse conditions before transplantation (2 to 4 mm in width and height). After transplantation to the field the majority of seedlings died rapidly, but several persisted for over 45 days without showing appreciable growth. Poor seedling establishment and survival are believed to contribute to the rarity of this species. The development of improved methods for the propagation and transplantation of S. americana, and the greater understanding of the causes for the rarity of this endangered species, will increase options for recovery strategies.
23313293|Diploid chromosome counts (2x = 2n = 28) are reported for the first time in 12 elm taxa newly introduced into the United States from China. These are Ulmus bergmanniana, U. bergmanniana var. lasiophylla, U. castaneifolia, U. changii, U. chenmoui, U. elongata, U. gaussenii, U. glaucescens, U. lamellosa, U. lanceaefolia, U. szechuanica, and U. taihangshanensis.
23313290|Paleoecological studies at Portage Marsh in northwestern Indiana provide a Holocene record of local populations of four species disjunct from the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains: Rhynchospora macrostachya, R. scirpoides, Fuirena pumila, and Eleocharis equisetoides. The populations were established at Portage Marsh when water levels dropped owing to regional climatic drying during the mid-Holocene. They persisted until the late Holocene; only R. macrostachya still occurs in the marsh. Populations of these and other Coastal Plain disjuncts probably were established in the southern Lake Michigan region following mid-Holocene drying and formation of extensive shallow wetlands by coastal processes. Seed sources for these populations may have been in the eastern Great Lakes region. We propose that development of Coastal Plain disjunctions in the central Great Lakes region consisted of a sequential series of westward range-shifts in response to climate-induced habitat changes, rather than a single late-glacial migration along a corridor of suitable habitat.
23313294|Cytological and morphological evidence indicates natural hybridization between Cirsium altissimum and C. discolor. It is postulated that the high degree of hybrid sterility is correlated with meiotic abnormalities.
23313295|The distribution of Tall Wheatgrass (Elymus elongatus subsp. ponticus) in Nova Scotia is summarized and a planted population along a roadside in Quebec is reported.
23313281|The contribution of self-pollination to overall reproduction in Isotria medeoloides was experimentally assessed. We used insect exclosures and applied three treatmentsno floral manipulation; pollinaria removal followed by hand self-pollination; and pollinaria removal followed by hand cross-pollinationand a control. Mature capsule dimensions and total seed weight were measured for each capsule. Analysis of variance revealed no significant treatment effects in mean seed weight, whereas a G-test showed that there were no differences in fruit set among treatments. Capsule length and diameter were strongly correlated with seed weight. Additionally, plant size (measured as leaf whorl diameter) was positively correlated with overall mean seed weight. We conclude that I. medeoloides is self-compatible and primarily self-pollinating. We also conclude that while reproduction is not limited by pollen availability, it may be limited by resources, assessed by overall plant size.
23313278|A highly variable, fully fertile population of Rhamnus that was first established in Ann Arbor, Michigan, circa 1952 was studied to identify the species present and determine whether some individuals were of hybrid origin. Specimens of four taxa hypothesized as being present in the populationR. cathartica, R. davurica var. davurica, R. davurica var. nipponica, and R. utiliswere used to establish reference clusters using a canonical discriminant analysis. Results of the discriminant analysis suggest that the population is a hybrid swarm and that only R. cathartica and R. utilis were involved in the formation of the hybrids at the study site. Additional analyses with the computer program HYWIN corroborated the results of the discriminant analysis, enabled circumscription of putative hybrids, and for each hybrid provided a pair of specimens in the data set that best matches the morphologies of its parents. Utilization of both discriminant and HYWIN analyses in studies of hybrid swarms appears complementary and effective.
23313280|Chromosome counts are documented and discussed for 44 Alaskan vascular plant taxa. Five of these are either first counts or new numbers for these taxa. A new combination, Cardamine microphylla subsp. blaisdellii is presented.
23313282|Because amphicarpy is strongly associated with heterogeneous habitats, it can be difficult to document and interpret infraspecific differentiation in amphicarpic species. In the woodland annual Amphicarpaea bracteata, a canonical variates analysis (CVA) of morphological data from herbarium specimens provided initial support for the recognition of two distinct varieties. Subsequently, common garden and greenhouse studies were conducted with multiple populations of these two well-marked varieties, A. bracteata var. comosa and A. bracteata var. bracteata. Because the variety comosa is restricted to sunnier habitats while the variety bracteata spans a broad range of habitats, these studies included bracteata populations from both densely shaded and sunny habitats. CVA of the greenhouse data indicated that the varieties comosa and bracteata maintained discrete differences in leaf morphology. Thus, varietal differences are, in part, genetically based rather than solely plastic responses to the local environment. Differences between shade- and sun-native bracteata populations, although relatively minor, also appeared to be, in part, genetically based. Consistent with its affinity for sunnier habitats, the variety comosa achieved superior survivorship and fecundity under high light conditions. However, fecundity was greater in shade-native than in sun-native bracteata populations. In combination with trends in leaf morphology, these results support the idea that the variety comosa is a sun-adapted ecotype, but not the concept that shade- and sun-native bracteata populations are, respectively, shade- and sun-adapted.
23313279|Branch initiation in the British Soldier Lichen (Cladonia cristatella) follows a sequence of discrete developmental stages. Branches arise from dichotomous divisions of a meristem-like apical bundle of fungal cells. Early ontogenetic phases are predictable and controlled by the activity of the fungal meristem. One source of variability in mature thalli is heterochrony; the branching process may be synchronized differently in different thalli. In some thalli the meristem may divide early in ontogeny, in which case the branches are relatively long and distinct. In other thalli the meristem enlarges but does not divide until later in ontogeny. In this case branching is delayed and the branches may be shorter and less distinct. Both patterns of timing for branch initiation produce mature thalli with a morphology that is unique to C. cristatella. The early ontogeny in C. cristatella is similar to that of taxa that are presumed to be only distantly related. This suggests that branching may be canalized in Cladonia species, and that certain branching patterns represent primitive characters in the Cladoniaceae. Morphological variability in C. cristatella, which is based partly on heterochrony, has both taxonomic and evolutionary implications.
23314744|The genus Nuphar (Nymphaeaceae) is described to include 11 species native to fresh waters of the Northern Hemisphere. This assessment utilized morphometric analyses, cladistic analyses, evaluation of randomly amplified polymorphic DNA, and seed and pollen fertility estimations. Evolutionary reconstructions position the genus at the base of the family, most closely allied to Barclaya. Comprehensive cladistic analyses of morphological and molecular data have permitted a general phylogenetic interpretation of the genus. Two major evolutionary lineages are evident and recognized taxonomically at the section level. One (sect. Nuphar) includes N. lutea, N.  spenneriana, N. japonica, and N.  saijoensis, with an ultimate branch involving N. pumila and N. microphylla. The other lineage (sect. Astylus) includes N. polysepala, N.  rubrodisca, N. variegata, N. sagittifolia, and N. advena. All studies illustrate high morphological variability and close relationships of species within each section. The biology of Nuphar is summarized and a complete taxonomic treatment is presented.
23313701|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the taxa of Cyperaceae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. Of the 367 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms) treated, 362 are mapped based primarily on specimens in major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with most data derived from the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in standard manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23313665|Quantitative data on structure and composition of all strata of vegetation were collected from 20 study sites in the Boston Mountains Subsection of the Ozark Mountains of northwestern Arkansas in June 2004. All study sites were located at upper slope or ridgetop positions and occurred at elevations > 457 m. Oaks (Quercus spp.) were dominants in the tree stratum (stems  10 cm DBH) for all 11 sites located < 549 m but in only one site > 590 m. In these higher elevation sites, various other species, including sugar maple (Acer saccharum), were relatively more important. Hickories (Carya spp.) were consistently present but usually achieved dominant or codominant status only at higher elevations. Dogwood (Cornus florida) and red maple (A. rubrum) were the two most important species represented in the small tree (stems  2.5 cm but < 10 cm DBH) stratum. The Ozark data set was compared with data obtained from a series of topographically similar study sites in the central Appalachian Mountains of eastern central West Virginia. For the tree stratum, the two regions shared 15 species in common, but these were usually quite different in importance. Oaks were relatively more important in the Ozarks but typically were underrepresented in the small tree, sapling, and seedling strata in both regions.
23313664|Chamaedorea glaucifolia, previously thought to be distributed in the Depresin Central de Chiapas and the adjacent Sierra Norte, is reported for the first time in southern Veracruz State in an evergreen tropical rain forest of the Uxpanapa region. It has also been found in the Sierra Madre del Sur, Chiapas, thus extending its range considerably. Chamaedorea tuerckheimii, previously known only from Guatemala and the Los Tuxtla region of Veracruz, was found in the northern mountain ranges of Chiapas and extending its range to a locality in the southern mountains of Tabasco bordering Chiapas. Notes on habitat and distribution are presented, as well as a "Critically Endangered" Red List Category (C1a) recommendation for C. tuerckheimii.
23313662|Resolution of the systematic relationships of the New England Boneset, Eupatorium novae-angliae, has been elusive. This rare species, known from only 15 sites in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, has been demonstrated to be male-sterile and agamospermous, and thus inferred to be polyploid, but its progenitor diploids have not been identified clearly. In a study that hinged on a combination of fieldwork and morphological study together with molecular analysis, we have demonstrated that E. novae-angliae contains ITS repeats characteristic of two sexual diploid species of the genus. One is the widespread E. perfoliatum, the second is a previously unrecognized endemic to clay-based Carolina bay and depression meadow habitats in the Carolinas, that had been included in E. leucolepis and is now recognized as a separate species, E. paludicola. The molecular data highlight the distinctiveness of E. novae-angliae and underscore the need for efforts to continue to protect it in its native habitat.
23313660|Phragmites australis subsp. australis is an invasive alien of major importance in natural habitats in many parts of North America but methods of distinguishing it from the native subsp. americanus required more research. A study of the value of basal stem internode color was conducted in eastern Ontario where the long history of collections enables characteristics of the native subspecies to be evaluated, since the invasive alien subspecies is believed to have arrived only recently. Although there is some overlap, correlation analysis indicated that basal stem internode color was highly correlated with ligule height and lower glume length, the latter characters being considered the most important for differentiation. With regard to ligule height, a measurement excluding the fringe of hair proved most valuable. Collections of native plants prior to the post-1970 spread of Phragmites along roads have reddish-purple lower stem internodes, whereas many collected after 1970 have yellow-brown lower stem internodes. Plants from interior wetlands, presumed to be native, also have reddish-purple lower stem internodes, while those from roadsides are either yellow-brown or reddish-purple. The plants with reddish-purple lower stem internodes have longer lower glumes and longer ligules on middle leaves than the plants with yellow-brown lower stem internodes. They are thus referable to the native subsp. americanus based on morphological as well as circumstantial evidence. Lower glume length and ligule height are confirmed as valuable characters for separating subsp. australis and subsp. americanus. Basal stem internode color is a valuable character, particularly for field identification and especially when combined with morphological measurements. Basal stem internode color was also indicated to be useful for studying the history of invasion of subsp. australis in eastern Ontario, and may prove similarly useful in other parts of northeastern North America, as well.
23313663|In 1853, John L. Riddell, then a leading multidisciplinary scientist in Louisiana, validly published 34 binomials and trinomials of vascular plants from Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. Most of these names were first published in 1852 in a checklist of Louisiana plants, but lacked descriptions and hence were not then validly published. This paper has been previously noted by several biologists. The following year, Riddell published a paper in the same journal providing brief descriptions of all of these supposedly undescribed plants. Unfortunately, this paper with the valid publication of these names has rarely been noted, as the journal is not widely available in botanical libraries. The few names so noted are often attributed to the supposed publishing author rather than to Riddell, who alone should be credited as the author for the new taxa. The genera of flowering plants in which new species or varieties are described are listed alphabetically as follows: Acalypha, Campanula, Cucumis, Dicliptera, Eriogonum, Lysimachia, Melothria, Physalis, Plantago, Polygonum, Potamogeton, Quercus, Sagittaria, and Urtica. The protologue of each of the published names is included and, for those that we could identify, synonymy is listed. For those species which we were unable to identify, we have included the protologues as a convenience to those not having access to the 1853 publication. We hope others may have the floristic or monographic knowledge to identify those names we have been unable to.
23313661|Eupatorium paludicola (Asteraceae) is a new species from the Atlantic Coastal Plain of North and South Carolina. It resembles E. leucolepis (DC.) Torr. & A. Gray, from which it is most readily distinguished by very narrow (24.5 mm wide) ascending-recurved to erect-incurved leaves, and by shorter involucres, pappi, and cypselae. It inhabits isolated, herb-dominated wet depressions with variable hydrology such as clay-based Carolina bays.
23313692|Two new species of Wikstroemia from Sichuan, China, are described and illustrated. Wikstroemia guanxianensis from Dujiangyan Xian is similar to W. dolichantha in the one-sided development of the disc and in the elongate inflorescence. It differs from W. dolichantha in the oval, wider leaves (to 3.5 cm wide) rounded at the base, longer pedicel (1.5 mm), and disc quadrate, apex truncate, undulate. Wikstroemia jiulongensis is similar to W. fargesii, but differs from it in young branches with scattered pubescence, the peduncles absent or very short, and a quadrate disc with undulate apex. A key to similar species of Wikstroemia in Sichuan is provided.
23313690|Variation in ploidy levels in Phragmites australis is a well-documented phenomenon although North American populations are less studied than European ones. It has been suggested, based on morphological measurements, that native and introduced P. australis subspecies in North America represent different ploidy levels. The objectives of this study were to assess whether guard cell size and stomatal density, morphological differences indicative of variation in ploidy level between native and introduced P. australis, are truly associated with different ploidy levels as measured by flow cytometry. Significant differences in guard cell size and stomatal densities were found between subspecies, with native plants having larger guard cells and lower stomatal density. However, no differences in 2C DNA content were found. Although these morphological measurements are significantly correlated with subspecies and can be added to the list of useful morphological characters distinguishing the two subspecies, it does not appear that they are accurate indicators of ploidy levels. Potential implications of these differences on the invasion biology of introduced P. australis are discussed.
23313688|The pine barrens in the fall-line sandhills of western Georgia can be accepted as the type locality for Ceranthera linearifolia as described by Stephen Elliott in his Sketch. This remote area between the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers became accessible in the early 1800s with the building of the Federal Road from Washington, D.C. through Georgia to Mobile, Alabama. Subsequently renamed Dicerandra linearifolia by George Bentham, this new mint genus was among several plants found and described by Elliott along the Federal Road. To establish the type locality, new field collections from the Georgia pine barrens were compared with Elliott's collections sent to Hooker and Schweinitz. A specimen at Kew (K) is designated as the lectotype for C. linearifolia and a new isolectotype is found at Geneva (G). A suite of characters, including strikingly linear leaves with strongly revolute margins, two-flowered cymes and generally unbranched stems, was common to both the types and the new collections from the Georgia pine barrens.
23313689|Three new taxa are described from the Arizona Strip in northwestern Arizona: Camissonia dominguez-escalantorum N.D. Atwood, L.C. Higgins & S.L. Welsh, sp. nov.; Physaria arizonica (S. Watson) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz var. andrusensis N.D. Atwood, S.L. Welsh & L.C. Higgins, var. nov.; and Tetradymia canescens DC. var. thorneae N.D. Atwood, S.L. Welsh & L.C. Higgins, var. nov. Two new taxa are described from New Mexico: Lepidium montanum Nutt. ex Torr. & A. Gray var. todiltoensis N.D. Atwood & S.L. Welsh, var. nov. and Hymenoxys argentea (A. Gray) K.F. Parker var. thoreauensis N.D. Atwood, S.L. Welsh & A. Clifford, var. nov. Two new species are described from Utah: Camissonia bolanderi N.D. Atwood & S.L. Welsh, sp. nov. and Erigeron katiae S.L. Welsh and N.D. Atwood, sp. nov. Each is compared to related species based on differences in morphology.
23313691|Despite a large body of work on the serpentine-substrate effect on vascular plants, little work has been undertaken to describe lichen communities growing on serpentine soils derived from peridotite and other ultramafic rocks. Most such work has been conducted in Europe and western North America. Only one study to date has examined the lichen flora of an ultramafic outcrop in eastern North America. The current paper examines the lichen flora of a peridotite outcrop from Deer Isle, Hancock County, Maine, U.S.A. The lichen flora is presented along with relevant ecological and geochemical data. Sixty-three species were found, comprising 35 genera. Two species, Buellia ocellata and Cladonia symphycarpia, are new reports for New England. Fuscopannaria praetermissa, Psorula rufonigra, and Spilonema revertens are new reports for Maine. Twenty species including one genus, Lobaria, are new reports for ultramafic soils worldwide. Buellia ocellata, P. rufonigra, and S. revertens are reported from several localities on the outcrop. Soil analyses were conducted for pH, electrical conductivity, cation exchange capacity, heavy metals, and cations. Soil pH and cation and heavy metal concentrations are similar to those reported from west coast ultramafic soils suggesting that a similarly strong substrate effect may exist for species present on ultramafic soils in eastern North America.
23313687|New data sets and analytic techniques provide the tools to build a new perception of changes in the New England flora following the retreat of the last Pleistocene continental glacier. We consider a set of 13 species for which genetic data are available in the context of 1) the fossil record when available, and 2) the evidence of the distribution of appropriate habitat in the late Pleistocene and Holocene. The current New England flora is derived from a diverse set of refugia including the High Arctic, the serpentines of the American West, and the unglaciated and now submerged North Atlantic coastal plain as well as the traditional refugia to the south, both along the coastal plain and to the west in the lower Mississippi valley. This analysis demonstrates that present-day communities are in fact transient, constantly changing assemblages of species.
23313002|A small population of the orchid Triphora trianthophora in western Massachusetts was investigated over a six-year period (1988 through 1993). Observations on the flowering habits and seed capsule production are described, as well as vegetative reproduction by means of tuberoids. Triphora produces an abundance of short-lived flowers yet very few capsules are initiated. The majority of Triphora's existence is spent underground reproducing asexually by means of new tuberoids.
23313005|The chromosome numbers of Alnus acuminata H.B.K. ssp. acuminata, A. acuminata ssp. arguta (Schlechtendal) Furlow and A. jorullensis H.B.K. ssp. jorullensis were determined on material from 10 different localities of 4 Latin American countries: Columbia (6 stations), Venezuela (1), Costa Rica (2) and Guatemala (1). All the species were tetraploid (2n = 28), A. acuminata ssp. arguta and A. jorullensis ssp. jorullensis being cytologically studied for the first time.
23313007|The first known botanical studies of the Connecticut Valley in western Massachusetts were initiated during the decade 181019. Four area physicians, David Hunt of Northampton (17731837), Jacob Porter of Plainfield (17831846), Dennis Cooley of Deerfield (17891860), and Stephen West Williams of Deerfield (17901855), kept extensive personal herbaria and corresponded with Amos Eaton at Williams College and Benjamin Silliman at Yale. Porter, Cooley, and Williams published phenological accounts of local vegetation and other scientific observations. Beginning around 1816, Edward Hitchcock (17931864) commenced botanical studies at Deerfield that culminated in the first flora of the region, published at Amherst in 1829. Hitchcock acknowledged Cooley and Williams as "early coadjutors in this work," which served as a basis for Hitchcock's 1833 compilation of the Massachusetts flora.
23313003|This study presents a community characterization of calcareous fens of western New England and adjacent New York State. Based on analyses of data from 24 sites, seven vegetation types are defined: Carex lasiocarpa-Cladium mariscoides Type, Carex aquatilis Type, Betula pumila Type, Carex lacustris Type, Carex stricta Type, Typha angustifolia-Carex lasiocarpa Type, and Carex interior-Carex leptalea-Carex flava Type. The distribution of these vegetation associations is related to hydrologic and ionic gradients. Calcareous fens of the region are similar to minerotrophically rich fens elsewhere in North America with respect to vegetation and environmental characteristics.
23313000|The artificial creation of wetlands has become a common means to mitigate the effects of wetland alteration due to development. The establishment of diverse, functional plant communities is a crucial and challenging part of a wetland creation project. This study analyzes plant community structure of a seven year old, artificially created wetland. One hundred and four vascular plant species are documented from the study site including two species listed as rare for New Hampshire and the first state record for an introduced weedy species. The computer program TWINSPAN used species abundance data to classify the vegetation into seven cover types. The three plant associations of the open water habitat were: Chara cover type, Potamogeton pusillus cover type, and the Potamogeton natans cover type. The four plant associations of the emergent habitat were: Eleocharis smallii cover type, Typha latifolia cover type, Juncus effusus-Phalaris arundinacea cover type, and a Carex stricta cover type. Each cover type and associated habitat was described and delineated.
23313085|Carex comosa shoots have a life history which varies depending on their time of emergence. Shoots that emerge in spring, summer or early autumn develop flower initials before winter, flower the following year, then die in August, having lived 240420 days. Shoots that emerge in late autumn do not develop flower initials, remain vegetative the next summer, then develop flower initials in the second autumn. These shoots flower and die the following summer, having lived for up to 700 days. Few shoots live their maximum time and mortality is 90% in some cohorts. Mortality patterns indicate that shoots die at a constant rate throughout the year.
23313087|Five significant additions of arctic and subarctic species have been made to the native vascular flora of the island of Newfoundland as a result of botanical explorations on the Great Northern Peninsula: Minuartia biflora (Wats.) Schinzl. & Thell., Primula stricta Hornem., Sagina caespitosa (J. Vahl) Lange, Sagina saginoides (L.) Karst. and Salix argyrocarpa Anderss. Important range extensions on the island are also reported for Cerastium terrae-novae Fern. & Wieg., Danthonia intermedia Vasey and Salix arctica Pallas.
23313083|While fen communities have been long known from northwestern Iowa, only recently have they been found to occur in northeastern Iowa, south of the limit of Wisconsinan glaciation. Since 1984, over 2333 potential fen sites were surveyed in this region, and 160 were found extant. Extant fen sites can be divided into one of five classes dependent upon surficial geology: pre-Illinoian till, bedrock, eolian sand, fluvial sand, and oxbows. Five of eight soil chemistry variables differed significantly across these geologic classes, including organic matter, pH, available phosphorus, calcium, and magnesium. Soil pH, organic matter, and available magnesium were found to have fairly well-defined spatial gradients across northeastern Iowa fen sites. Four principal axes of climatic variation were also described from northeastern Iowa, and include temperature, precipitation, growing season, and summer precipitation. A total of 320 vascular plant taxa were located or have been reported from this community, with seven being only known from historical records. Fully 44% of the flora are considered rare in the region or state. Of these, 30% are rare in northeastern Iowa, 20% are rare in the state, 12% are listed for state legal protection, 11% are newly known from the northeastern Iowa flora, and 4% are newly known from the Iowa flora. Even though northeastern Iowa fens currently cover only .01% of the northeastern Iowa land surface, they contribute significantly to state and regional biodiversity by harboring approximately 28% of the regional and 18% of the total state flora.
23313086|A method of producing dot distribution maps automatically from a database file using widely available computer software and public domain mapping software is described. Two sample maps are provided.
23313084|In conjunction with a study of the Nymphaeaceae in North America, the taxonomy and nomenclature of three taxa is reviewed. Two new combinations are provided at subspecific rank for two taxa sometimes treated as species, one for Nymphaea tuberosa Paine and one for Nuphar rubrodisca Morong, and both are lectotypified. A neotype is selected for Nymphaea advena Aiton which serves to maintain usage of Aiton's epithet for a widespread taxon of Nuphar.
23313139|During the 19901992 growing seasons vegetation was surveyed in a Logan County, Ohio fen. This 23 ha site was subjected to intense substrate disturbance resulting from peat mining activities which took place from 1980 to 1985. Thousands of cubic meters of peat and marl were removed from the fen and virtually the entire surface area was affected by dredging activities. Surveys of the fen prior to mining indicate that the site was occupied mostly by shrub communities dominated by Cornus spp., Rosa palustris, and other woody species. However, shrubs are infrequent at the present time. Post-disturbance surveys documented a total of 208 vascular plant taxa, including 22 species listed as rare in Ohio. Several species are present which are disjunct from areas in the state where they normally occur, or are not known elsewhere in western Ohio.
23313138|Pubescence in Oxalis grandis Small was analyzed as a constellation of characters describing the numbers, types, orientations, and lengths of hairs on different regions of the plants. Pubescence is a complex character whose components vary independently with no obvious geographical or ecological correlates. Hirsute plants occur sporadically throughout the range of the species, but extreme expression of the entire suite of pubescence characters is restricted to one population. A correlation analysis indicates that pubescence in Oxalis grandis is most likely under complex genetic control and is therefore valuable as a taxonomic character. An analysis of pollen size utilizing plants from two populations representing extremes in pubescence shows significant differences between flower morphs. For corresponding morphs, pollen from the population with pubescent plants is larger. These studies have demonstrated high levels of intraspecific polymorphism within Oxalis grandis.
23313142|Somatic chromosome numbers are reported for nine species and one variety of Callitriche (Callitrichaceae). The following new reports are included: 2n = 20 (C. nuttallii, C. marginata), 2n = 40 for one of four populations of C. heterophylla var. heterophylla, 2n = 40 (C. trochlearis), 2n = 10 (C. peploides, C. terrestris).
23313141|Both aerial and underwater pollination systems (hypohydrophily) occur in Callitriche (Callitrichaceae), and as such the genus can serve as a model system in which to probe questions concerning the evolution of hypohydrophily from aerial pollination systems. Evidence from scanning and transmission electron microscopy reveals strikingly different exine thickness in the pollen of four aerially flowering species (C. heterophylla var. bolanderi, C. marginata, C. peploides, and C. stagnalis), which have a distinct sexine layer (0.551.1 m thick), in comparison with that of the hypohydrophilous C. hermaphroditica. The exine of the latter species is rudimentary (<0.1 m thick) in pollen of the annual form of the species, and virtually absent in the perennial form. The degree of exine reduction in pollen of C. hermaphroditica relative to that of the aerially flowering species contrasts with the otherwise general morphological similarity observed among the flowers of the respective species.
23313137|In North America the Carex petricosa group has generally been considered to consist of three species, C. petricosa and C. franklinii in western Canada and Alaska, and C. misandroides in eastern Canada. In addition a number of other species and varieties have been described in the past fifty years, but these have generally not been given formal recognition by subsequent authors. A morphological study of herbarium specimens of this group led to the conclusion that all of these taxa should be treated as a single species. The western and eastern populations differed in the proportion of flowers that were distigmatic. Western plants were mostly tristigmatic or had not more than 50% distigmatic flowers. Eastern plants were mostly distigmatic or had more than 50% distigmatic flowers. Consequently two varieties were recognised in C. petricosa, var. petricosa from the west, and var. misandroides (Fernald) Boivin from the east.
23313140|Horizontal starch gel electrophoresis of isozymes was conducted on samples from the single currently known Massachusetts population of Cypripedium arietinum (ram's head lady's slipper) and two populations of C. acaule (pink lady's slipper). No genetic variation was detected at 27 presumptive loci in the C. arietinum population and only slight variation among 26 and 19 presumptive loci, respectively, in the C. acaule populations. Levels of polymorphism and heterozygosity in all populations were exceedingly low for animal pollinated obligate outcrossers. Genetic distance between the C. acaule populations was also low. Yearly and possibly overall effective population sizes in C. acaule and C. arietinum may be low due to low flower production and/or fruiting rate. Low levels of intrapopulation variation may thus result from genetic drift and founder effect, as proposed for C. acaule by Gill (1989). Low variation between C. acaule populations, though, indicates that genetic bottlenecks in ancestral populations may also have contributed to low species-level variation, as proposed by Case (1994) for Michigan populations of C. acaule, C. arietinum, C. candidum, and C. reginae. These results suggest that low genetic variation in declining Cypripedium populations may not be anthropogenic. These populations may have been genetically depauperate throughout much of their existence prior to human disturbance. Habitat loss, plant collecting and demographic stochasticities are, at least in the short term, more significant threats to Cypripedium populations than is a relative lack of genetic variation.
23313100|The seaweed floras from the Goleta Slough and adjacent coastal sites near Santa Barbara, California are compared with several coastal and estuarine habitats within the southern Gulf of Maine. One hundred fifty-two taxa are described from the Goleta-Santa Barbara area, consisting of 104 Rhodophyta, 22 Phaeophyta and 26 Chlorophyta. Four of these taxa represent modest range extensions within the state (i.e., Farlowia conferta, Giffordia hincksiae var. californica, Lomentaria caseae and Prionitis australis, while two others found within the Slough (Capsosiphon fulvescens and Microspora pachyderma) are significant additions to the marine flora of the Pacific Coast. The patterns of species richness and composition at four contiguous southern California sites showed strong contrasts due to local environmental variability, with the highest numbers of taxa (117 taxa or 77%) occurring at the sand-abraded nearshore Goleta Point site and the lowest within the shallow Slough (26 taxa or 17%). The depauperate flora of this small arid salt marsh habitat is dominated by ephemeral green algae (16 species) and Salicornia virginica, with ten other seaweeds (i.e., 7 reds and 3 browns) only occurring just upstream from its mouth. By contrast, estuarine seaweed floras within New England usually have much higher numbers of red algal taxa, their "open coastal" floras often extend much farther inland (2.08.5 miles) and seaweed standing stocks are usually dominated by fucoid brown algae. The similarity of the Slough's green algal flora to New England's estuarine vegetation is striking, with most of the latter sites exhibiting floristic affinities of 50% or more. The analogous distributional and abundance patterns of ephemeral green algae (Cladophora sericea and Enteromorpha compressa) and the California horn snail (Cerithidea californica) suggest several important interactions between seaweeds and snails, plus several other invertebrates and birds.
23313101|The northern adder's-tongue fern, Ophioglossum vulgatum var. pseudopodum (Blake) Farw. (Ophioglossaceae), occurs in five known populations in Massachusetts and has been designated as threatened by the Massachusetts Natural Heritage Program. The autecology, population biology and population genetics of O. vulgatum var. pseudopodum were analyzed during the summer of 1992. The distribution of each population was mapped, associated vegetation sampled, and permanent plots established for long-term study. Isozyme electrophoresis was employed to assess variability within and between populations. The historical distribution of the species in Massachusetts was examined based upon herbarium specimens. Each of the known Massachusetts populations is in an early successional site with a unique history of disturbance; sites include pasture, a power line right-of-way, and abandoned beaver meadows. Four of the five populations are small, ranging from 1 to 109 sporophytes. All specimens subjected to isozyme analysis were monomorphic for all loci examined. The implications of the spatial and temporal distribution, population size, and low genetic variability of Ophioglossum vulgatum var. pseudopodum are discussed. Management considerations for the preservation of this and other early successional species are suggested.
23313102|A putative tri-specific hybrid Diphasiastrum (Lycopodiaceae) is described from a collection in northern Vermont and is figured in a line drawing. The hybrid is morphologically intermediate between its probable parents, D. digitatum and D.  sabinifolium. This is the first flat-branched hybrid lycopod believed to involve three parental genomes. In light of its limited occurrence (a single clone), it is not given an epithet.
23313417|Carex oronensis, Orono sedge, is Maine's only known endemic plant species. From 1916 through 1986 only one individual was collected. From 19861998, we and others found 58 populations and approximately 2862 reproductive individuals in early successional habitats, almost exclusively in the Penobscot River drainage. Of extant populations, 80% have < 20 plants, and 22% have only 12. In a Principal Coordinates Analysis with 22 morphological variables and 95 individuals, C. oronensis separated completely from C. bebbii, C. ovalis, C. scoparia var. tessellata, and C. tincta. Canonical Discriminant Analysis resulted in 100% classification for 19 individuals of C. oronensis. Carex oronensis differs from the four other taxa especially in perigynium features: narrow wings, lack of abaxial nerves, glossy texture, rust-colored blotch (68% of sample), and lack of basal sponginess about the achene. Species status is appropriate for C. oronensis because it is fertile, its offspring are identical to the parent, and it is morphologically distinct. Because its distribution is wholly north of the Wisconsin glacial boundary and it is not clearly adapted for long-distance dispersal, the species appears to have arisen in Maine. Hay transport by the lumber industry could account for the spread of C. oronensis within the Penobscot River drainage and its confinement there. Mowing after seed dispersal in mid-July appears to benefit populations.
23313420|The unusual gross morphology of Cladonia leporina provided the basis for early lichenologists to classify it separately from other species with red apothecia. Their hesitation to include C. leporina with other red-fruited species was based on its ascyphose, abundantly branched thallus, which did not match the characteristic cup-shaped morphology of species that were known in the early nineteenth century. Cladonia leporina was compared by its author with C. rangiferina, which was later recognized within the genus Cladina. The concept of a group to accommodate all of the red-fruited taxa in Cladonia arose during the nineteenth century. Its morphological parameters were subsequently broadened to include both branched and unbranched species. Contemporary lichenologists have classified C. leporina within section Cocciferae, in which all of the Cladonia species with red apothecia are recognized regardless of morphology. Similar to other branched species with red apothecia, the morphology and morphogenesis of C. leporina suggest that this species is allied with taxa outside of section Cocciferae.
23313418|The North American Platanthera aquilonis Sheviak has long been known to autopollinate. Pollinia rotate forward and downward out of the anther sacs and contact the stigma. Previous experimental evidence has indicated that this movement is effected by gravity. In addition to the movement of whole pollinia, flowers are often found in which continuous streams of pollen massulae emanate from anther sacs and seemingly pour down onto the stigma. Experiments with cultivated plants have shown that water droplets can collect in the centers of flowers of this species. These sometimes draw a sheet of massulae out of an anther sac either onto the surface of the droplet or into its interior. As the droplet evaporates, the massulae are deposited as a continuous layer from the anther sac onto the stigma. It is suggested that in nature dew may function to produce the observed pollen streams.
23313421|Species of the algal genus Vaucheria routinely leave "seed banks" of propagules in riparian sediments for regrowth during optimal conditions in the habitat. Muds containing propagules were collected at different times of the year from four freshwater riparian habitats in central and eastern Connecticut, sites previously known to have as many as six Vaucheria species living sympatrically in the space of just 36 cm2 of floodplain sediment or stream bank. Muds from each site were allowed to thoroughly desiccate in the laboratory. Desiccated mud samples were rehydrated after prescribed periods of time, and then cultured under optimal conditions in an incubator. Eight freshwater species appeared variously in the cultures demonstrating a tolerance to desiccation of 63383 days with V. undulata, V. prona, and V. frigida surviving the greatest periods of treatment.
23313419|Females in dioecious species are generally expected to have higher rates of photosynthesis than are males of the same species. This sexual dimorphism is believed to evolve to compensate for higher costs of reproduction in females relative to males. However, some studies have shown that males in dioecious species have higher rates of carbon assimilation than females. The current study measures photosynthetic rates in males and females of the same genotype in the gender-switching species, Arisaema triphyllum. Males were found to have higher photosynthetic rates on a per unit area basis. However, females had greater overall carbon assimilation rates because of their significantly greater leaf area. Photosynthesis in the current study was measured at flowering; presumably developing embryos were not acting as carbon sinks at this time. Arisaema triphyllum has a corm (an underground storage organ) that may be the primary sink for carbon. A regression including only females reveals a significant inverse relationship between pseudostem diameter (a proxy for corm size) and photosynthetic rate; as corm size increased, the photosynthetic rate decreased. This suggests that in very large females having greater stored resources, the corm is not as strong a sink as it is for smaller females, at least during the flowering phase of the growing season. For smaller females however, photosynthetic rates do appear to be sink-limited. There was no relationship between corm size and photosynthetic rates among males. Overall, males and females appear to have different patterns of assimilation, at least early in the growing season.
23313469|Short's goldenrod, Solidago shortii (Asteraceae), is extant from a single locality in Blue Licks, Kentucky. Field studies demonstrated that this endemic is a morphologically variable taxon, inspiring two questions. First, is the taxon known as S. shortii from Blue Licks the same species as originally described by Torrey and Gray from an extirpated population at the Falls of the Ohio River, Kentucky? Second, what is the extent of the morphological variation within and among populations of Short's goldenrod at Blue Licks? These questions were addressed through Principal Components Analysis (PCA), Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA), and standard whole-plant herbarium specimen comparisons. Whole-plant comparisons with other members of Solidago subsection Triplinervae revealed diagnostic characters suitable for the delineation of S. shortii. All specimens of S. shortii from both the Blue Licks and Falls of the Ohio localities shared diagnostic character states. For morphometric purposes, specimens representing two sympatric goldenrod species (S. ulmifolia and S. nemoralis) and one close phylogenetic relative (S. canadensis var. scabra) were sampled from the same locality as S. shortii. Vegetative and floral characters were analyzed for all four taxa. Specimens of S. shortii from the Blue Licks vicinity formed a continuous cluster in PCA with specimens from the Falls of the Ohio, a cluster which was distinct from those formed by the other three species. In DFA, the Falls of the Ohio specimens were imbedded in the cluster formed by the Blue Licks specimens. Thus, the taxon at Blue Licks is indeed S. shortii, as established by morphometric analysis and whole-plant comparisons. In terms of interspecific variation, S. shortii at Blue Licks exhibited a similar or greater range of variation than either of the two more common Solidago taxa found at Blue Licks, S. canadensis var. scabra and S. nemoralis. The range of morphological variation exhibited by S. ulmifolia was slightly greater than that of S. shortii. These data also indicate a greater variability within and among Blue Licks populations of S. shortii than otherwise might be expected for a species of highly restricted distribution, and have major implications regarding management policies.
23313470|The morphology and habitat of a dwarf moss-like or muscoides-like fucoid brown alga were studied in the Brave Boat Harbor salt marsh of York-Kittery, Maine, U.S.A. using transect studies and transplant experiments. The plant, which lacks a holdfast, forms a dense embedded turf amongst sparse Spartina patens populations in the high marsh, particularly on well-drained sandy sediments near the Harbor's mouth. The plant's dichotomously branched fronds were smaller than those previously reported for muscoides-like populations from Europe (mean = 13.2 mm long, 1.1 mm wide, and 0.1 g damp-dried weight), while they had a similar dominance of marginal hair pits or cryptostomata. Transplantation of in situ Fucus spiralis from the lower to the upper marsh resulted in enhanced fragmentation, stunting, proliferation, and reduced reproduction. Reciprocal transplantation of the muscoides-like Fucus from upper to lower elevations caused enhanced frond length and proliferation. Based upon detailed transplant and morphological studies, we conclude that the muscoides-like Fucus plants from Brave Boat Harbor represent a phenotypic variant of F. spiralis, caused by detachment, extensive proliferation, and subsequent degeneration of detached fragments. The plant's dwarf morphology is primarily linked to a series of unique environmental conditions (desiccation and low nutrients), plus the type of attached parental material available. Thus, the dwarf muscoides-like Fucus in Europe and some Northwest Atlantic sites may be derived from F. vesiculosus, while in Brave Boat Harbor the parental material is F. spiralis. An analogous pattern is also evident between Ascophyllum nodosum and its detached ecad scorpioides, with the presence of dwarf specimens and the occurrence of a conspicuous morphological continuum between the two plants.
23313471|Chromosome numbers are reported for 238 individuals of 79 taxa and one hybrid from 19 genera from western Canada and the western United States. The majority of the reports are for asters (109) reported in this paper under the generic names Canadanthus, Eucephalus, Eurybia, Oreostemma, Sericocarpus, and Symphyotrichum (including Virgulus) and goldenrods (97) under Solidago and Euthamia. Nearly all counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; some reports are first counts for one or more of the four Canadian provinces and territories and thirteen western states of the United States sampled. The following first reports are included: Eurybia conspicua (Aster conspicuus), 2n = 126; Solidago simplex var. nana, 2n = 18; Symphyotrichum falcatum var. falcatum, 2n = 30; and S. yukonense, 2n = 10. The following new combinations are proposed: Heterotheca sessiliflora var. echioides, H. sessiliflora var. fastigiata, and Oreostemma alpigenum subsp. haydenii.
23313468|Buckleya (Santalaceae) is a hemi-parasitic, shrubby genus with two species in China, one in Japan, and one in the southeastern United States. Phylogenetic relationships among these species are controversial and have not been tested using molecular data. In this study we used sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA to test previous phylogenetic hypotheses. Two sister species pairs are well supported: B. distichophylla plus B. graebneriana, and B. lanceolata plus B. henryi. Sequence differences and morphological characters support the recognition of B. lanceolata and B. henryi. Sequence divergence between B. distichophylla and B. graebneriana is twice as high as that between B. lanceolata and B. henryi. These results are most consistent with the treatment proposed by Carvell and Eshbaugh. Biogeographically, one of the Chinese species (B. graebneriana) is most closely related to the eastern North American species (B. distichophylla), while the other Chinese species (B. henryi) is allied with the Japanese species (B. lanceolata). Maximum likelihood analyses do not reject clock-like evolution of nrDNA ITS spacers in Buckleya, and divergence times may date to the Late Miocene and Pliocene.
23313432|Saint John River Valley Hardwood Forest (SJRHF) is a regionally threatened northern disjunct plant assemblage of the central St. John River Valley and associated tributaries of southwestern New Brunswick and northeastern Maine. Two centuries of land clearance have reduced this assemblage to less than 1% of its original extent. Remaining stands, especially of more mature trees, support 31 regionally rare vascular plant taxa and are at risk due to increased cutting. Assessment of the effect of recent disturbance on SJRHF has been hampered by limited distributional information; past surveys were wide-ranging but nonsystematic. This study describes results of a systematic habitat-based survey for SJRHF remnants across 2000 km2 of western New Brunswick. One hundred and twenty one stands were assessed for the presence of rare vascular plant taxa and disturbance. Fifty-four previously unknown stations with one or more rare SJRHF taxa were identified. Two new taxa were discovered for the province and one provincially extirpated taxon was re-located. One hundred and fifteen of 121 stands showed evidence of tree harvest. Within the last two decades, 46% of the surveyed sites had been fully or partially clearcut or converted to potato fields. Ongoing stand loss suggests that conservation measures are required to maintain remnant assemblages. In situations where reserve formation is not possible, occurrence of SJRHF herbs, including rare taxa, in previously select-cut stands indicates that modified low-intensity harvest strategies may not be incompatible with their persistence.
23313433|Six new taxa from Utah and one from northern Arizona are described and one new nomenclatural proposal is presented, as follows: Erigeron huberi S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; Salvia columbariae var. argillacea S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; Astragalus lentiginosus Douglas ex Hook. var. trumbullensis S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, var. nov.; Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Rydb. var. fumariensis S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, var. nov.; Oenothera murdockii S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; Aquilegia desolaticola S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; A. fosteri (S. L. Welsh) S. L. Welsh, comb. nov.; A. loriae S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.
23313434|For nine years I studied the life cycle, demography, and reproductive biology of a woodland herb, Geranium robertianum, in central Massachusetts. These plants are facultative biennials that typically flower in the year after germination. Of 408 seeds experimentally sown in natural habitat, 26% gave rise to seedlings within six years. Of 1352 marked, naturally occurring seedlings, 53% survived to the end of their first growing season, 13% of plants alive at the end of their first growing season survived to year two, and 54% of these flowered. Plants germinating in early spring were more likely to survive to the end of year one and to flower than those germinating later in the year. Low summer rainfall appeared to reduce summer survival and low winter temperatures combined with little snow cover seemed to reduce winter survival. Floral structure and development, pollen-ovule ratios, and pollinator activity all suggest that plants of this species are highly self-pollinated. Herb Robert is one of only a few biennials that occupy undisturbed forest habitat.
23313431|A comparison of species richness at 51 coastal and estuarine sites in southern Maine is given, encompassing the area from Cape Neddick, York, to Fort Foster, Kittery, and including the Brave Boat Harbor salt marsh (York/Kittery). A total of 148 taxa was recorded, which is relatively high compared to other coastal or estuarine areas in northern New England. Seaweed populations exhibited three major distributional patterns: coastal (41%), coastal-estuarine (51%), and estuarine (8%). Perennial species dominated open coastal and outer estuarine locations, while annuals were most conspicuous at inner estuarine sites. Twenty-nine taxa were restricted to a single site (2% occurrence), whereas 19 were found at 2136 sites (4171% occurrence). Diversity in Brave Boat Harbor's main tidal channel was relatively high (83 species), presumably because of coastal and estuarine influences, diversity of habitats, and limited anthropogenic impacts. Six new or uncommon seaweeds were recorded from Brave Boat Harbor, including the invasive green alga Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides, the green algal epiphyte Urospora curvata, the tubular opportunistic brown alga Melanosiphon intestinalis, the entangled or partially embedded ecads Fucus vesiculosus ecad volubilis and F. spiralis ecad lutarius, and a dwarf embedded moss or "muscoides-like" Fucus. The prolific growth of psammophytic populations of F. spiralis on sandy bluffs at Brave Boat Harbor is also unique, as it typically grows on hard substrata within contiguous muddy estuaries. It was most abundant in the outer third of the Harbor, along with its detached ecad lutarius. Ascophyllum nodosum ecad scorpioides and F. vesiculosus ecad volubilis grew commonly as detached or buried populations in the interior parts of the Harbor, while the "muscoides-like" Fucus was found on outer high sandy marsh surfaces.
23313443|Complete abundance-annotated botanical inventories of managed and unmanaged forested areas provide critical baseline data for the long term monitoring of floristic diversity. Such data are essential in identifying species at risk of local or regional extirpation, in tracking rates of exotic invasion, and in the evaluation of species diversity effects arising from natural and anthropogenic disturbance. The reaction of forest herbaceous species to disturbance, and their subsequent recovery rates, have been little studied to date. This study documents the complete floras of seven experimental watersheds of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, compares their relative floristic characters, and provides baseline data for long term diversity monitoring at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest. The two watersheds having undergone experimental clearcuts in the recent past were found to differ significantly in elements of the herbaceous understory. These differences were not reflected in tree data and suggest that forest management policies based on tree recovery times may underestimate true floristic recovery periods, and threaten diversity over the long term.
23313442|Forty-three species and two subspecies of Sphagnum are reported for New Hampshire, including fifteen species and one subspecies documented from herbarium records and recent collections. Diversity at county and biophysical subsection (ecoregion) levels is presented and areas that remain undercollected in the state are highlighted. New Hampshire has a great diversity of Sphagnum species, reflecting the diversity of climatic, geologic, and environmental characteristics of the state. Several species with restricted distributions are discussed, and habitats critical to these species are described for future conservation efforts.
23313444|Quantitative investigations of vegetational composition and structure in 15 beaver-impacted wetlands in Franklin and Hampshire Counties, Massachusetts, were conducted between 1980 and 1995. Four wetland types were identified based on species composition. Five distinctive physiographic zones, each with a characteristic assemblage of plant species, and three successional pathways were observed in the study sites. While soil moisture is clearly a strong influence on plant community structure and composition in beaver-impacted wetlands, hydrological dynamics including frequency, duration, and extent of flooding appear more influential than depth to water table.
23313455|Jaltomata hunzikeri, a rare shrub of the coast of the department of Lima, Peru, is described and shown in a photograph. Hebecladus sinuosus, transferred as J. sinuosa, is a shrub that is widely distributed in the Andes. Saracha lobata and S. sordideviolacea are placed in synonymy with J. dentata.
23313457|This article includes a report of nomenclatural novelties in the genus Atriplex, which were determined as appropriate following preparation of a summary revision of the genus for the Flora of North America Project. Subgeneric novelties include: Atriplex subgen. Obione, stat. nov. and Atriplex subgen. Pterochiton, stat. nov. Sectional or subsectional taxa are: Atriplex subgen. Obione sect. Pleianthae, sect. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Graciliflorae, stat. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Saccariae, stat. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Argenteae, stat. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Truncatae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Wolfianae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Pusillae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Arenariae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Leucophyllae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Californicae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Phyllostegiae, comb. nov.; and Atriplex sect. Covilleiae, sect. nov. New varietal combinations are: Atriplex gmelinii var. alaskensis, comb. nov.; A. glabriuscula var. acadiensis, comb. nov.; A. glabriuscula var. franktonii, comb. nov.; A. saccaria var. cornuta, comb. nov.; A. saccaria var. asterocarpa, comb. nov.; A. argentea var. longitrichoma, comb. nov.; A. argentea var. rydbergii, comb. nov.; A. powellii var. minuticarpa, comb. nov.; A. wolfii var. tenuissima, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. minuscula, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. depressa, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. subtilis, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. persistens, comb. nov.; A. cordulata var. erecticaulis, comb. nov.; and A. coronata var. vallicola, comb. nov.
23313458|A classification and key to Asian, Australian, and Pacific Oleandra is presented to complement studies of Pichi-Sermolli (Africa) and Tryon (the Americas). Six species are recognized in this large area. Many species that have been proposed are evidently local variants and not recognized here.
23313456|Pavonia bahamensis (Malvaceae) is a shrub that is endemic to the southeastern Bahama Islands. Here I present the first detailed description of its pollination biology. On San Salvador Island, P. bahamensis appears to be pollinated exclusively by two bird species, Bananaquits and Bahama Woodstars. This pollination dependence was dramatically demonstrated in one season when hurricanes decimated these bird populations, and pollen deposition and fruit set of P. bahamensis was significantly reduced. However, the lack of pollination limitation of fruit set during two other flowering seasons and the relatively low pollen/ovule ratio (607) suggests that pollination of P. bahamensis by these birds is generally reliable. Flowers show traits typical for a bird pollination syndrome, except that the corolla is green. Flowers are held horizontally on the shrub, rather than vertically, suggesting that passerine birds (Bananaquits) rather than hummingbirds have been the most effective pollinator and major selective agent for the floral traits in this species. Individual Bahama Woodstars are ineffective pollinators, depositing few or no pollen grains on stigmas per visit; however, they maintained pollination in one season when visits by Bananaquits were infrequent, and they contributed to the reliability of pollination for this endemic species.
23313459|A floristic inventory of the Waccasassa Bay State Preserve in southwestern Levy County, Florida was conducted from April 1996 to December 1997. The 12,488 ha (30,849 acres) Preserve yielded vouchers for a total of 2 charophytes, 24 liverworts, 29 mosses, 43 macrolichens, and 576 vascular plants. Of the vascular plants, there is 1 lycopsid, 12 ferns, 1 cycad, 4 conifers, and 555 angiosperms, 178 of which are monocots. Sixty-nine species are nonindigenous, and 73 species are recorded for the first time from Levy County. Seventy-two species are at or near their northern or southern limits, 18 species have disjunct distributions or very restricted ranges in Florida, and 16 species are Florida endemics or near-endemics. Five natural plant communities, as well as ruderal areas, were recognized based on field observations: tidal marsh, coastal hydric hammock, freshwater pools, basin swamp, and mesic to scrubby flatwoods. Treatment of the coastal hydric hammock as a single highly variable community, as opposed to a mosaic of intermixed communities, was supported by a limited quantitative analysis.
23314647|The composition and structure of vegetation in beaver wetlands located in Franklin and Hampshire Counties of western Massachusetts were studied from 1980 to 1995. A flora of 231 vascular plants was recorded within fifteen selected field sites including seven new county records and one state-listed species (Ophioglossum vulgatum var. pseudopodum). Relatively few species (5.6% of the total flora) were introduced. Factors contributing to high vascular plant diversity included 1) steep hydrological gradients created by beaver dams; 2) spatial heterogeneity caused by beaver artifacts, human structures and geological features; and 3) temporal heterogeneity resulting from beaver activity and hydrological fluctuations. While beaver activity has helped maintain regional vascular plant diversity in western Massachusetts since the reestablishment of beaver populations in the 1920s, current increases in beaver densities may pose a threat to later successional wetland species.
23314644|Five new species of Verbesina are described, V. biserrata, V. clarkae, V. maldonadoensis, and V. pichinchensis all from Ecuador, and V. perijaensis from Colombia.
23314646|The structure, composition, and floristics of understory swamp forest vegetation in Ned's Ditch, a segment of a regularly flooded oxbow in Northampton, Massachusetts, has been investigated at intervals from 1973 through 1996. The forest canopy is dominated by Acer saccharinum in association with Quercus palustris and Fraxinus pennsylvanica; these species are regenerating despite the deaths of a number of trees between 1975 and 1985. The shrub stratum, dominated by Cephalanthus occidentalis, has remained relatively unchanged. In the herbaceous stratum, species abundances fluctuate from year to year in relation to flooding and other aspects of hydrology with aquatics such as Lemna minor increasing during wet years and annuals, particularly Bidens spp., growing to maturity in times of drought. The abundance of Osmunda regalis and Onoclea sensibilis has remained relatively constant over the 23 year period, but tree seedlings have become increasingly important though few have been recruited to the upper strata. Overall, emergent and floating hydrophytes in the herb stratum have tended to decline although the composition of the flora of the herb stratum continues to strongly resemble the flora of adjacent marshes. These observations suggest that preserving and successfully managing Ned's Ditch and similar floodplain forests will require the maintenance of species of diverse ecological requirements adapted to a range of habitat conditions.
23314645|A field experiment tested whether seed maturation in Canada mayflower (Maianthemum canadense) was pollen limited and whether ramets flowering for the first time differed from ramets flowering for the second time in the number of seeds that they matured. Addition of pollen increased the number of seeds matured by ramets and therefore seed maturation was pollen limited. No difference in the number of seeds matured by ramets flowering for the first time and ramets flowering for the second time was detected and thus previous flowering did not appear to affect current seed maturation. There was a positive relationship between the number of seeds matured by ramets and the total weight of these seeds. This relationship did not differ between ramets flowering for the first and second times.
23313382|Nonindigenous vascular plant species have been introduced, intentionally or unintentionally, since Europeans landed in what is now New England some time in 1496. We know little about the native flora of New England at that time. John Josselyn's New England Rarities Discovered recorded both the native and European plants he saw during his two visits to southeastern Maine and is the earliest report on the flora of what is now New England. Subsequent writers, such as Manasseh Cutler, also documented both the native and increasing number of non-native species that became naturalized in this region. This paper discusses both the intentional and nonintentional introductions from Europe and the later introductions from eastern Asia. Various modes of unintentional introductions such as ballast plants and agricultural "stowaways" are presented. Species that are native to other regions of North America and that have naturalized in New England are mentioned. Currently, over 1000 vascular plant species that are not considered indigenous to the region exist in the New England flora. A few introductions have become so aggressive in their establishment around New England that they are now acknowledged as invasive species. Early botanical works and herbarium records are used here to document arrivals and changes in the flora.
23313384|In a New Jersey QuercusFagusAcer saccharum forest (Drew University Forest Preserve), the exotic tree Norway maple (A. platanoides) is a major and growing presence in all size classes. Norway maple, long one of North America's favorite shade trees, is invading nature preserves in New Jersey and elsewhere. Research in the Drew Forest Preserve shows that the forest is not a tight, resilient unit that repels invasions. Norway maple does not rely upon disturbance or edges. Norway maple seedlings are shadetolerant and abundant, far outnumbering sugar maple and beech seedlings in the heart of the forest preserve. An analysis of population size and age structure shows that Norway maple trees date back to 1915 or earlier and are present in all subsequent age classes. Spatial studies show clumped distributions for Norway maples as for other plant species but show no restriction to edges. In the understory, species richness is significantly lower beneath Norway maple than under sugar maple or beech, and most stems under Norway maple are additional Norway maples. A restoration experiment (with tree removal plots and seedling removal plots) was begun in 1998 in a patch of 75-year-old sugar and Norway maples; this unusually simple two-species area will elucidate the competitive interaction over time. Other invasive species also penetrate relatively undisturbed forest; Lonicera japonica, Alliaria petiolata, Berberis thunbergii, and Wisteria floribunda are present alongside Norway maple in the Drew Forest Preserve. Nor is disturbance needed to admit exotic pathogens or insect pests that attack native trees. The threat to the eastern deciduous forest is grave. If the forest is not sufficiently resilient to weather the onslaught of intentional and accidental introductions, then intervention is urgently needed.
23313379|The lotting surveys from northern New England and New York provide a unique opportunity to derive quantitative documentary evidence on past forests. Due to the distinctive "proprietory town" land tenure system, northern New England has an extensive and virtually untapped archive of land division surveys done prior to settlement (17631820). I searched archives throughout Vermont, New Hampshire, and northern New York and located records from 179 towns documenting 48,260 individual trees across the region. Surveyors used 131 separate vernacular names representing at least 49 recognizable species. This collection of town-wide witness tree relative frequencies is a consistent and unbiased empirical estimate of the composition of the natural vegetation before confounding land use. Five ubiquitous taxa (beech, spruces, maples, hemlock, birches) comprised 79% of the witness trees. Beech (32%) consistently dominated the region with greater than 60% of the trees in some towns. Spruce (14%) was the second most abundant species and found throughout the region. Maples (12%) were consistently distributed with peak abundance in Vermont. Hemlock (12%) had a patchy distribution with pockets of abundance, including the eastern Adirondacks. Birches (9%) were a species group with higher abundance in the mountains or to the north. White pine was consistently uncommon with very low (<1%) abundance on the uplands. A dramatic "oakbeech" tension zone or ecotone separated the oakpine vegetation in the major southern valleys from the sprucemaplebeech composition northward. The central tendency was toward sprucehardwoods with distinctive variants in the north, the Taconics, and the Champlain Valley. Major fires and blowdowns were equally rare and affected only 0.5% of the region. Fire was frequent only in the Hudson-Champlain corridor and windthrow was a low-level background disturbance. The most dramatic changes documented over the past 200 years have been the decline of beech and the profound effects of human land use.
23313383|To prevent species from going extinct and to restore locally extinct species to conservation areas, conservationists have been attempting to create new populations of rare and endangered species. Such efforts are still at an early stage, with the basic methodology still being developed and many efforts resulting in failures or only modest success. The purpose of this work was to develop some general rules about how to carry out reintroduction efforts using four methods to create many new populations of eight perennial species. Our results demonstrate that the chances of success were greater when planting seedling and adult material rather than sowing seeds on the sites. Using larger adult material was more successful than using seedlings. Adult transplants also flowered and fruited right away, in contrast to plants derived from seeds, which rarely flowered even after several years. Digging up the site to expose the soil and reduce competition prior to sowing seed did not result in a greater establishment of seedlings. At many sites no plants survived at all, or success was low. These results emphasize the difficulties of establishing new plant populations. To increase the rate of success, attempts should utilize many sites, numerous seeds or plants, and various methods in order to develop a workable methodology for the species in question. Because of the difficulties of establishing new populations, conservation of rare and endangered species should first protect existing populations and only secondarily rely on reintroductions to ensure species survival.
23314639|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the families of Monocotyledons except Poaceae and Cyperaceae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. The 325 of the 329 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms) treated are mapped based on specimens in the major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with primary emphasis on the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in recent manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23314235|A qualitative floristic survey of Wallace Woods, Linesville, Pennsylvania, was conducted during the growing seasons of 20052007. The 12.9 ha tract is situated in the western portion of Crawford County, within the Northwestern Glaciated Plateau Section of the Appalachian Plateaus Province. Wallace Woods has been the property of the Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology through the University of Pittsburgh since 1962. Seven habitats were delineated within this site: 1) Upland HemlockHardwoods Forest, 2) Elevated Alluvial Woodland Terrace, 3) Golden Saxifrage Woodland Seep, 4) Skunk Cabbage Swamp, 5) Alluvial Creek Floodplain, 6) Riparian Creekbank, Gravelbars, and Mudflats, and 7) Culturally Derived Ruderal Roadside. The vascular flora consisted of 384 specific and infraspecific taxa in 229 genera from 83 families. Eighty (20.8%) taxa were exotics. Plant division representation was one Equisetophyta, three Lycopodiophyta, 15 Polypodiophyta, two Pinophyta, and 363 Magnoliophyta (97 Liliopsida, 266 Magnoliopsida). The largest five families were the Asteraceae (40), Poaceae (37), Cyperaceae (32), Rosaceae (23), and Fabaceae (12). Twenty-one taxa (5.5%) were new records for Crawford County.
23314234|Field and herbarium research has revealed three newly recognized introduced and naturalized mosses in the northeastern United States. Rhytidiadelphus squarrosus, as that name is often applied in eastern North America, consists of a widespread common native species, R. subpinnatus, a carpet-forming moss of wet conifer and conifer-hardwood forest, and R. squarrosus in the strict sense, an introduced and naturalized moss that appears to be infrequent in eastern North America and restricted to weedy habitats such as lawns. Kindbergia praelonga is documented to occur on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts, in lawns in Nantucket town, indicating that it is a naturalized member of the bryoflora. There may also be native populations of this moss elsewhere in eastern North America, but this is unconfirmed. A moss of the southeastern and midwestern United States, Funaria flavicans, has been found with mature sporophytes in flower pots at a retail nursery on Nantucket Island in circumstances indicating it is an adventive. It may be a waif, or possibly a member of the naturalized bryoflora of Massachusetts, if in the future populations outside cultivation are found. New occurrences of a European moss, Psuedoscleropodium purum, from Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and in other places in eastern North America (Nova Scotia and North Carolina) add substantially to the previously known distribution of this moss. These new collections were in part from residential lawns and similar habitats outside of cemeteries where most of the previously known occurrences were concentrated, which may indicate that this moss is spreading.
23314233|A taxonomic survey is presented for Leucophysalis. The genus is of interest because L. grandiflora has the northernmost distribution of any Solanaceae in North America and because of its possible link to certain Asian species of the family. A key to species, synonymy, and a discussion of generic relationships is included.
23314230|Calamagrostis perplexa is a New York State endemic grass species, hypothesized to be of hybrid origin, that previously was known only from a single locality. We provide a summary of its taxonomic history, report new New York records and ecological information for the taxon, and include a principal components analysis and key characterizing morphological variation in C. perplexa and its putative close relatives C. canadensis, C. porteri, C. rubescens, and C. scribneri. Calamagrostis perplexa is now known from two extant populations and a third population of unknown status; it remains a New York state endemic.
23314231|A survey of oligohaline and mesohaline tidal marshes along the upper reaches of eight tidal rivers in the Great Bay Estuary of New Hampshire was conducted to document the occurrence of eastern grasswort, Lilaeopsis chinensis, a state-listed, rare species. Historical sites were visited to assess the presence, absence, or significant population changes of this rare coastal species. We re-located four of five historically documented element occurrences, noted the plant's potential expansion on several rivers and a decline at three other sites, and identified a new occurrence on a river system with no prior documented accounts. The results suggest that overall, L. chinensis has been relatively stable for the last 60 years, although the loss of plants at three of the sites suggests it is threatened by continued development (dams and tidal restrictions) and associated impacts to water quality.
23314229|Recently, the native shrub or small tree Aralia spinosa has been reported from the northeastern United States farther north of its traditional range, while the Asian shrub A. elata has been reported to be naturalizing across the same region. Herbarium and field studies have clarified the current ranges of A. spinosa and A. elata in the eastern United States, with almost all recent reports of A. spinosa in the northeastern United States north of Maryland and Delaware being based on misidentifications of A. elata. Aralia elata is well established and rapidly spreading throughout all 25 counties in the New York metropolitan area. The most reliable characters for separating the two species are the length of the central inflorescence axis, fruit size, and seed size. Many herbarium specimens of these woody Aralia species cannot be confidently identified to species because they lack or have incomplete inflorescences/infructescences. Proper preparation of voucher specimens requires at a minimum the collection of the proximal portion of the inflorescence/infructescence.
23314232|Alvars in the vicinity of Enterprise, Northwest Territories, had 87 species of vascular plants. Of these, 14 were frequent or at least locally abundant, including: Juniperus horizontalis, J. communis var. depressa, Geum triflorum var. triflorum, Carex richardsonii, Populus tremuloides, Elymus trachycaulus subsp. trachycaulus, Koeleria macrantha, Saxifraga tricuspidata, Artemesia campestris subsp. borealis, Senecio lugens, Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, and Galium boreale. Of the trees comprising the surrounding forest, only Populus tremuloides and Pinus banksiana were common in the open areas. The cliff tops had fewer species but they also had some species of arctic and high boreal affinity that were absent from the alvars. Associations characterized by Deschampsia caespitosa occurred in lower areas of alvar that collect run-off, whereas higher areas were characterized by a variety of plants including Carex richardsonii, Elymus trachycaulus, and Geum triflorum. Cracks in the limestone pavement in elevated areas were occupied by Pinus banksiana and Juniperus communis. Approximately 12% of the species present were rare and/or restricted, including Avenula hookeri, Carex filifolia, and Dodecatheon pulchellum. Compared to the alvars of the Great Lakes region, the alvars and cliff tops of Northwest Territories had a much higher percentage of species that were also found in the Beringian region of northwestern North America. Higher numbers of boreal, arctic, and cordilleran species also contributed to the distinctive nature of Northwest Territories alvars, based on clustering of similarity coefficients from species presence or absence data. The alvar flora of Northwest Territories is believed to have been established in the region of Great Slave Lake between 10,000 and 8000 years ago, prior to invasion of the boreal forest. At this time, the northwestern Beringian and Cordilleran floras met the retreating tundra and prairie floras from the south in an expanding ice-free corridor. The relict flora of Northwest Territories alvars and cliff tops includes species of the Beringian steppes and tundras such as Plantago canescens, species of the central North American plains such as Geum triflorum, and many species that could have originated from the prairie-like habitats of either region. This unusual relict flora, originating in early postglacial times, is now isolated within the present boreal forest that spread through the region approximately 8000 years ago.
23314242|The published images in Mark Catesby's Natural History are compared with the original watercolors now preserved in the Royal Library at Windsor Castle, England. This comparison has allowed for a more exact evaluation of the 174 plants illustrated by Catesby, resulting in determination of all plant species but one. The typification of most plant names is given in detail, with full bibliographic citations. Most non-plant organisms associated with the plant images are also identified and their nomenclatural status discussed. Catesby plates are newly designated here as lectotypes or neotypes for the following plant names: Cassine paragua Mill., Dracontium foetidum L., Echites umbellatus Jacq., Ficus citrifolia Mill., Fraxinus caroliniana Mill., Gleditsia aquatica Marshall, Hibiscus tiliaceus L., Ilex caroliniana Mill., Ipomoea catesbaei G.F.W. Mey., Laurus sassafras L., L. winterana L., Magnolia virginiana L. var. foetida L., Malva abutiloides L., Menispermum carolinum L., Passiflora cuprea L., Platanus occidentalis L., Quercus incana W. Bartram, Q. virginiana Mill., Rhizophora mangle L., Vanilla mexicana Mill., and Zanthoxylum clava-herculis L. As a result of this review, conservation proposals are being considered for two plant names (Quercus nigra L. and Plumeria alba L.) while rejection proposals are being prepared for one plant name (Smilax lanceolata to maintain S. smallii Morong). Two animal names (Eruca maximacornuta Edwards, an earlier name for Bombyx regalis Fabricius, the basionym of Citheronia regalis, the regal moth, and Papilio carolinianus Edwards, an earlier name for P. marcellus, the basionym of Protographium marcellus or Eurytides marcellus, the zebra swallowtail) are hereby suppressed as neither name has been accepted over the past one hundred years.
23314243|Gentiana latidens, previously described by House as a variety of G. saponaria, is here raised to specific rank. This species is endemic to the Balsam Mountains and nearby ranges in western North Carolina. It is most similar to G. clausa, from which it differs most notably in its larger flowers with larger, more variable calyx lobes and less tightly closed corollas that taper more gradually toward the summit.
23313758|An analysis of the vascular epiphytes of El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve was made based on eight years of field work and herbarium data. Four hundred and sixty five species and infraspecies of vascular epiphytes from 131 genera and 31 families are listed. Approximately 9% were found to be true epiphytes, whereas 0.65% were accidental epiphytes. Orchidaceae was the most species-rich family, although the genera Peperomia, Tillandsia, and Polypodium were the most rich in epiphytes.
23313759|The two names proposed by C. C. Huang in 1991, Atalantia fongkaica and Fortunella bawangica, were not validly published because the herbarium in which the types were deposited was not specified. These names are validated here.
23313757|A floristic inventory of vascular plants for The Nature Conservancy's Tiger Creek Preserve and Saddle Blanket Scrub Preserve, on the Lake Wales Ridge, Polk County, Florida, was conducted from August 2004 through February 2008. The 2308 combined hectares of the Preserves yielded 553 taxa, of which 54 are non-native, 37 are at or near the southern or northern limits of their ranges in Florida, and 24 are new Polk County records. Fifty-five taxa endemic to Florida were found, of which 27 are restricted to Florida peninsular scrubs or scrub/sandhill ecotonal habitats. Nine of these taxa are restricted to four or fewer counties. Twenty-seven are listed in Florida as endangered, threatened, or of management concern, and 18 are listed federally. Twelve plant communities are characterized: scrub, scrubby flatwoods, sandhill, xeric hammock, mesic flatwoods, wet flatwoods, bayhead, seepage slope, depression marsh, floodplain wetlands, blackwater stream, and ruderal. Descriptions and photographs of the plant communities are provided.
23313756|Plants growing on seabird-nesting islands are uniquely adapted to deal with guano-derived soils high in N and P. Such ornithocoprophilous plants found in isolated, oceanic settings provide useful models for ecological and evolutionary investigations. The current study explored the plants found on Mount Desert Rock (MDR), a small seabird-nesting, oceanic island 44 km south of Mount Desert Island (MDI), Hancock County, Maine, U.S.A. Twenty-seven species of vascular plants from ten families were recorded. Analyses of guano-derived soils from the rhizosphere of the three most abundant species from bird-nesting sites of MDR showed significantly higher (P < 0.05) NO 3 - , available P, extractable Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn, and significantly lower Mn compared to soils from the rhizosphere of conspecifics on non-bird nesting coastal bluffs from nearby MDI. Bio-available Pb was several-fold higher in guano soils than for background levels for Maine. Leaf tissue elemental analyses from conspecifics on and off guano soils showed significant differences with respect to N, Ca, K, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, and Pb, although trends were not always consistent. Two-way ANOVA indicated a significant interaction between species and substrate for Ca, Mg, Zn, and Pb tissue accumulation, showing that for these four elements there is substantial differentiation among species found on and off of guano soil. A compilation of species lists from other important seabird-nesting islands in the region suggested an ornithocoprophilous flora for northeastern North America consisting of 168 species from 39 families, with Asteraceae (29 taxa; 17.3%), Poaceae (25 taxa; 14.9%), Polygonaceae (10 taxa; 5.95%), Caryophyllaceae (9 taxa; 5.4%), and Rosaceae (9 taxa; 5.4%) as the most species-rich families. The taxa were predominantly hermaphroditic (69%) and perennial (66%) species, native (60%) to eastern North America.
23314193|The serpentine-substrate effect is well documented for vascular plants, but the literature for bryophytes is limited. The majority of literature on bryophytes in extreme geoedaphic habitats focuses on the use of species as bioindicators of industrial pollution. Few attempts have been made to characterize bryophyte floras on serpentine soils derived from peridotite and other ultramafic rocks. This paper compares the bryophyte floras of both a peridotite and a granite outcrop from the Deer Isles, Hancock County, Maine, and examines tissue elemental concentrations for select species from both sites. Fifty-five species were found, 43 on serpentine, 26 on granite. Fourteen species were shared in common. Twelve species are reported for the first time from serpentine soils. Tissue analyses indicated significantly higher Mg, Ni, and Cr concentrations and significantly lower Ca:Mg ratios for serpentine mosses compared to those from granite. Soil analyses demonstrated significant differences between the two substrates.
23314195|A floristic survey of a polje lakebed, which is full in the spring but drains completely as the season progresses, revealed a community of small mud-bottom plants including the globally rare Coleanthus subtilis, not previously recorded from Northwest Territories, Canada. The newly discovered site is 1077 miles NNW of its nearest North American location in southern British Columbia, which is the northern edge of a region of occurrence including southern British Columbia and the Columbia River in Washington and Oregon. The lakebed flora included four zones of vascular plants. Coleanthus subtilis was confined to the lowest level mud-bottom community, which had been exposed for the shortest period and included a rich assemblage of annuals including Juncus bufonius, Limosella aquatica, and Ranunculus hyperboreus. The lakebed flora included mostly widespread boreal species, and C. subtilis may be included in this category. It appears restricted to specific montane and boreal areas by its requirement of pronounced seasonal inundation in a cool climate. Coleanthus subtilis may have persisted at the Washington and British Columbia locations, near the limit of the continuous montane glaciation, since early postglacial times. The occurrence in Northwest Territories may be either a result of dispersal from unglaciated areas of Beringia nearby to the west or from the south. Although it has sometimes been considered introduced in the United States parts of its North American range, it is here considered native at all of its North American sites on the basis of: (1) its restricted and unusual habitat; (2) global rarity; (3) suffusive rarity, which is known to lead to mistaken assumptions of introduction; (4) occurrence in botanically rich regions and close association with rare native species; (5) relatively early year of collection; (6) distribution corresponding to a well recognized native pattern; (7) lack of evidence of spread to anthropogenic habitats; and (8) the fact that it is easily overlooked by early collectors as a result of only appearing at intervals of several years when water levels have dropped sufficiently.
23314194|Serpentine outcrops are model habitats for geoecological studies. While much attention has been paid to serpentine outcrops worldwide, the literature on eastern North American serpentine and associated biota is scant. This review examines the available literature, published and unpublished, on geoecological studies conducted on serpentine in eastern North America, from Newfoundland through Qubec and New England south to Alabama. Most serpentine outcrops in the region have been mapped, but there have been few intensive mineralogical and pedological investigations. The limited soil analyses available suggest elevated levels of heavy metals such as Ni, near-neutral pH values, and Ca:Mg ratios < 1, characteristic of serpentine soils worldwide. Botanical studies to date have largely focused on floristic surveys and the influence of fire exclusion and grazing on indigenous vegetation. To date, 751 taxa of vascular plants belonging to 92 families have been reported from serpentine outcrops in the region. Two taxa, Agalinis acuta and Schwalbea americana, are federally endangered in the United States while many others are listed as rare, endangered, or imperiled in one or more states or provinces. Globally, six species, Adiantum viridimontanum, Minuartia marcescens, Pycnanthemum torrei, S. americana, Scirpus longii, and Symphyotrichum depauperatum are listed as imperiled (G2) while one species, Agalinis acuta, is listed as critically imperiled (G1). Cerastium velutinum var. villosissimum is the only recognized serpentine endemic plant for eastern North America while Adiantum viridimontanum, Aspidotis densa, M. marcescens, and S. depauperatum are largely restricted to the substrate. Based on current distributions, we propose that A. viridimontanum and M. marcescens be considered endemic to serpentine substrates in eastern North America. Studies on cryptogams list 165 species of lichens and 146 species of bryophytes for the region. None of the species found appear to be restricted to the substrate. Compared to other regions of the world, ecophysiological and evolutionary investigations are scant. Biosystematic investigations are restricted to the taxa Adiantum aleuticum, C. velutinum var. villosissimum, and S. depauperatum. Plant-soil relations, especially the capacity to hyperaccumulate metals such as Ni and the ecological consequences of metal accumulation, are also under explored. One report from eastern Canada lists Arenaria humifusa, M. marcescens, Packera paupercula, and Solidago hispida as hyperaccumulating Ni although the findings have yet to be confirmed by subsequent investigations. Overall, serpentine geoecology in eastern North America remains largely unexplored.
23313223|Recent herbarium and field studies have added 38 species and deleted 192 species from the flora of Vermont. The additions include 25 recently discovered species and 13 species based on older records that have been overlooked or misinterpreted. Ten additions are rare native species. Four of these are currently listed as state Threatened or Endangered species. The additions bring the total flora of Vermont to approximately 1933 species. The 192 deleted species, if included in the flora, would increase this number by 10%. The deletions include misidentified and misinterpreted species, cultivated plants incorrectly listed as naturalized, and many species that lack vouchers altogether. The geography of the added and deleted records suggests that many of the added species may be recent immigrants, and that many of the unvouchered species are highly unlikely in Vermont and are probably mistakes. A review of the number of species that have been deleted from the seven previous Vermont floras suggests that the apparent error rates of these floras have ranged from 0.3% to 5.4% of the species listed by each flora, with an average error rate of 2.4%.
23313226|Eriogonum codium (Polygonaceae: Eriogonoideae), a low, matted, cespitose perennial with tomentose flowers and achenes found on the Hanford Nuclear Reservation (the Hanford Site), Benton Co., Washington, U.S.A., is described as a new species. It belongs to the same group of matted perennials in the subgenus Eucycla as E. chrysops but has a cymose-umbellate inflorescence similar to E. cusickii. The tomentose flowers and achenes readily distinguish the new species from all of its near relatives.
23313224|We discovered a population of Thorea violacea in the upper Hudson River of New York State during September 1994. The same site was barren of Thorea the following June, but two and a half months latera year after the initial collectiona large population of thalli, some over a meter in length, was again present. This seasonality may account in part for the seeming rarity of this large, conspicuous alga. Thalli presumed to represent the Chantransia phase of the Thorea life cycle occurred on rocks at the same location with the same phenology. The Hudson River site represents the first confirmed North American locality of T. violacea north of Texas and the most northerly North American locality of the family Thoreaceae. Characterization of the chemical and physical conditions at the study site suggests broader environmental tolerances (lower specific conductance, greater water flow, colder water regimes) of this group than previously known.
23313225|Amelanchier nantucketensis, Nantucket shadbush, thought to be restricted to coastal Massachusetts and Long Island, New York, is now also known from Maine, Maryland, inland Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Nova Scotia. Distribution is greater in part due to a wider circumscription of the species; A. nantucketensis intergrades with and therefore includes A. stolonifera f. micropetala. The 41 extant populations reported here each consist of up to 13 individuals, grow in early successional sites, and almost always occur with other Amelanchier species. Conservation at the state level is recommended for A. nantucketensis, which should be included in administrative rare plant lists. Protection of local populations would be best effected by controlling vegetation to maintain an early successional stage.
23313227|Taxus canadensis (Canada yew) in Hanover, New Hampshire, was studied to determine the relative importance of site factors, deer browsing, and past landuse in determining its distribution. Data indicate that the species' distribution is strongly linked to habitats with high soil moisture and low solar radiation (e.g., concave and/or north-facing slopes). Taxus canadensis is less abundant on slopes and in habitats with southern exposure. Deer browsing is greater on south-facing than on north-facing slopes and higher under deciduous than under coniferous canopies. Species associations do not indicate a restriction of Taxus canadensis to sites of particular (canopy) successional status, but land-use data suggest that it may be absent from areas which have been recently logged. Taxus canadensis is more abundant in Hanover than in sites in north-central Massachusetts, suggesting that suitable habitat for this species may increase with latitude.
23313214|The distinctive features of Fragaria multicipita Fernald, including small size, multicipital habit, floral aberrations and absence of runners to a greater or lesser degree, are symptoms of strawberry multiplier disease resulting from mycoplasma infection. Direct evidence of the disease in F. multicipita plants was obtained through graft inoculation using normal F. chiloensis which developed increasingly pronounced multiplier disease-like symptoms after three months. Plants referable to F. multicipita were not confined to specialized habitats. The chromosome number of 2n = 56 obtained from five small multicipital plants representing four locations was the same as that widely reported for the F. virginiana complex in North America. These observations suggest that F. multicipita is only a diseased form of F. virginiana, despite the stability of its distinctive traits in cultivation and the potential adaptive nature of these traits on cool disturbed rivershores. Accordingly, the new combination, Fragaria virginiana Duch. ssp. glauca (S. Wats.) Staudt f. multicipita (Fern.) Catling & J. Cayouette, is proposed.
23313213|As part of the process of closing Fort Devens in north central Massachusetts, an intensive two year survey of vascular plants growing in the undeveloped area (6700 acres) of the fort was completed. A total of 857 naturally occurring taxa in 394 genera and 121 families were identified, including 18 rare taxa and 29 county records. The unusual diversity of taxa for the area is due to several factors which include land use history and the physical setting, as well as management practices and military activity which created or maintained early and mid-successional habitats.
23313211|Sterility of lake cress results from uncertain factors and may be a significant element in the decline of populations over the past century. The inability of lake cress (Neobeckia aquatica) to produce viable seeds restricts its dispersal to vegetative fragments which are transported less effectively over long distances. We obtained mitotic counts of 2n = 24 for individuals from seven populations of lake cress, a species for which the chromosome number was unreported previously. In context of chromosome number distribution in the Brassicaceae based on literature reports for 192 mustard genera, the base number of tribe Arabideae (in which lake cress is placed) and of all genera presumed to be closely related to lake cress is x = 8. The presence of 24 chromosomes indicates that lake cress is a triploid derived from an x = 8 chromosomal series. Highly sterile triploid hybrids (2n = 3x = 24) have also been reported in several genera related to lake cress. The extremely well-developed system of vegetative reproduction in lake cress may partially compensate for its sexual sterility. The discovery that lake cress is triploid offers a specific explanation for its sterility and discloses special considerations for the conservation of this rare species.
23313215|Vaccinium stamineum L. (deerberry) is a widespread species in the United States that reaches its northern limit in the Niagara Falls and Thousand Islands area of southern Ontario, Canada. Only five stations occur in Ontario, with the most extensive populations being found within St. Lawrence Islands National Park. Dry, open, rocky woods, with a history of fire, are the preferred habitat for this species in Canada. Whereas the largest stations are currently under government protection, their proximity to existing trails, a lack of seedling recruitment, and encroachment by later successional vegetation suggests that this species could become extirpated if the factors affecting its vulnerability are not reversed. For these reasons V. stamineum is recognized as a threatened species in Canada.
23313216|Allelopathic effects of Lantana camara L. foliar leachates and dried leaf amendments on Ipomoea tricolor Cav. radicle growth, shoot emergence, and plant biomass were examined over a 50-day period. Aqueous leaf extracts of L. camara decreased radicle growth of Ipomoea but germination percentage was not inhibited. Dried leaf residue in soil growth media delayed shoot emergence from soil. Plant biomass after 50 days was not affected by the presence of L. camara soil amendments. Leaf extracts in petri dishes were more inhibitory than was dried leaf material in soil. These results indicate the presence of phytotoxic compounds in L. camara. Allelopathic effects of these compounds are significant during early germination of Ipomoea, while plants older than 2 weeks appear unaffected. In the soil environment allelopathic effects are minimal, possibly due to chemical binding, microbial action, or both.
23313212|Recent books covering the flora of Washington admit only one species of Lesquerella, L. douglasii S. Watson, to the flora of the state. A different, undescribed species of this genus has been recognized from recent collections. The new species was first collected in 1883 but the specimens from that gathering are incomplete and they were never appropriately utilized. The new species is named L. tuplashensis and it is compared with L. douglasii, its nearest relative.
23313154|Chromosome numbers were determined for 54 individuals of Newfoundland Antennaria representing 8 species: A. cana (2n=56), A. columnaris (2n=56), A. confusa (2n=56), A. eucosma (2n=56), A. gaspensis (2n=56), A. howellii (2n=56), A. pulvinata (2n=56), and A. staminea (2n=56). The tetraploid determinations for populations of both A. eucosma and A. howellii (reported as A. neodioica) support previous determinations for these two species. Chromosome number determinations for all other species represent first reports.
23313156|Peatlands, while ecologically interesting and abundant in the northeast, have gone largely unstudied in New Hampshire. This baseline study focuses on a vegetation analysis of the vascular flora of Pequawket Bog, Ossipee, New Hampshire. A total flora of 109 species, including Eriophorum angustifolium, an endangered plant species for the state of New Hampshire, was documented for the bog. Using stratified random sampling, 287 plots from 10 transects were sampled for percent cover of vascular plant species. Five vegetation cover types and nine subtypes were determined using the computer classification program TWINSPAN. The five cover types include: a Nymphaea odorata cover type, a Carex lasiocarpa cover type, a Chamaedaphne calyculata-Woodwardia virginica cover type, a Chamaedaphne calyculata-Vaccinium oxycoccos-Eriophor um virginicum cover type, and an Acer rubrum-Vaccinium corymbosum-Lyonia ligustrina cover type.
23313155|Forty-six native or naturalized species, varieties, or hybrids are reported as additions to Dowhan's Preliminary Checklist of the Vascular Flora of Connecticut. These represent 21 native taxa and 25 apparently naturalized taxa. Each taxon is presented with a brief history of its discovery in Connecticut. Dates are presented for the earliest known voucher specimen for each addition.
23313158|Urtica chamaedryoides is reported for the first time to Cuba.
23313157|The discovery of the Marsh Sow-thistle (Sonchus palustris) growing in the Waterloo Region of Ontario, Canada is reported.
23313203|Plants of the natural hybrid of Drosera anglica Huds. and Drosera linearis Goldie were discovered in a fen in Chippewa County, Michigan and are herein reported for the first time. Leaf aspects of the hybrid are intermediate between the parents and are best expressed as a leaf blade length/width ratio. Multiple measurements of the ratio in the parents and putative hybrid indicate an intermediate state. Chromosome evaluation indicates 2n = 30 (D. anglica 2n = 40, D. linearis 2n = 20 in the literature). Pollen viability is very low and no seeds are produced in the plants. The corolla is slightly larger in the hybrid than in either parent. In the field, the hybrid appears very vigorous and grows on two low mossy hummocks in a calcareous fen. In culture in the greenhouse, the hybrid plants show heterosis and leaf out and flower earlier in the season than the putative parents.
23313204|The chromosome number of Saxifraga gaspensis Fern., a taxon frequently included in the circumpolar species S. nivalis L., or considered a variety, was determined on material from Mount Logan, Gasp Peninsula, and found to be 2n = 40. As the chromosome number of S. nivalis is 2n = 60 (about 30 data from diverse countries), it seems that the plant described by Fernald in 1917 is specifically different. The authors suggest that S. gaspensis could be a stabilized relictual hybrid between S. nivalis and the closely related diploid species S. tenuis (Wahlenb.) H. Smith, 2n = 20, or a polyploid originating from S. tenuis.
23313202|This taxonomic treatment of Arabis (Brassicaceae) in Canada, Alaska and Greenland recognizes 30 species. A comprehensive key is provided for these species and 8 varieties. Four new species are described: A. boivinii G. Mulligan, sp. nov.; A. calderi G. Mulligan, sp. nov.; A. codyi G. Mulligan, sp. nov.; and A. murrayi, G. Mulligan, sp. nov. In addition, many other taxa are recorded for the first time for this area. Cytological studies available for 45 North American and Greenland species of Arabis are summarized and discussed. Thirty-six of these species have the basic chromosome-number of x = 7 and some have diploid, triploid and even tetraploid chromosome races. The Arabis species being treated here can reproduce sexually and/or by agamospermy.
23311169|The distribution, pollination ecology, and habitats of representatives of the Orchidaceae which occur naturally in New Hampshire, USA are discussed. The information was compiled from historic records and new field studies.
23314554|Chromosome numbers of one or more individuals from 269 collections of Aster pilosus were determined from throughout the range of the species. Two cytotypes were commonly encountered: 4x and 6x (x = 8). In var. pilosus, tetraploids and hexaploids were allopatric for the most part. Hexaploids occurred in the northwestern portion of the species' range. Intervarietal and infravarietal pentaploids encountered came from interface areas. All plants of A. pilosus var. pringlei (including var. demotus) were hexaploid and occurred in the northeastern portion of the range of the species. Only 3 plants were found to have supernumerary chromosomes. Two plants were putative heptaploids. In comparison, diploids have been found in the 3 related species A. porteri, A. depauperatus, and A. parviceps. First reports: A. parviceps, 2n = 16; A. pilosus var. pilosus, 2n = 35 and 2n = 42; A. pilosus var. pringlei, 2n = 48 + 28 supernumeraries and 2n = 56; A. pilosus var. priceae, 2n = 32.
23314551|The Antennaria Parlinii polyploid complex is a widespread species occurring throughout deciduous forests of eastern United States and southern portions of adjacent Canada. This group consists of two variable subspecies, ssp. Parlinii and ssp. fallax. The complex is composed of both sexual and agamospermous populations with distinct geographic distributions. Crosses were made in all combinations among several sexual diploid species of Antennaria that morphologically resemble members of the A. Parlinii complex to aid in identifying its diploid ancestors. The hybrids were then compared by principal components, cluster, and discriminant analyses, to the naturally-occurring polyploids. Results indicated that A. Parlinii s.l. was of multiple hybrid origin involving three sexual diploid species, Antennaria plantaginifolia, A. racemosa, and A. solitaria.
23314550|The Tusket River valley in southwestern Nova Scotia has many rare Atlantic coastal plain plant species. Sixteen lakes were examined for some specific rare shoreline plants: seven lakes through which the Tusket River flows and nine similar-sized lakes adjacent to or discharging into the Tusket River. The seven Tusket River lakes had significantly more rare species (P = 0.01): the richest shoreline floras occurred lowest in the watershed (P < 0.02). Two environmental factors which could produce these distributions are water level fluctuations associated with the Tusket River and presence of different glacial tills. Shoreline species such as Coreopsis rosea and Sabatia kennedyana are threatened by the disruptive effects of cottage development and all-terrain vehicle use.
23314555|Chromosome numbers in 39 species of Sedum Section Sedum and Subgenus Sulcus range from n = 11 to n = ca. 100, with about 38 different numbers known and no basic or ancestral number apparent. Dysploidy and/or polyploidy, up to 12-ploidy, occur within most of the more widespread species, and B-chromosomes were found in seven species. Common chromosome numbers are n = 12 (four species), n = 1819 (ten species), and n = 34 (nine species), with each of these numbers including some species that are similar and obviously related. Many crosses have been attempted, with some success, and in several cases pairing of the chromosomes in hybrids provides useful evidence regarding degree of relationship between parents. Most species occur as relatively small, scattered populations in restricted pioneer habitats; evidently this distribution has promoted rapid evolution of morphological and cytological diversity.
23314549|Spicebush in two Massachusetts populations is a species in which a basic dimorphism exists with equal numbers of male plants and female plants that are sexually constant and vegetatively similar. A low percentage of individuals have both male and female flowers.
23314556|Trifolium stoloniferum, the running buffalo clover, has apparently disappeared from most of its historical range and was considered to be possibly extinct. Two small extant populations have been recently found in West Virginia. Both populations are on disturbed floodplains, are threatened by human activity, and remain the only known extant populations. Circumstantial evidence suggests the disappearance of Trifolium stoloniferum is linked to the elimination of bison from its range.
23314548|Nineteen dunite and serpentine (ultramafic) areas in Vermont were explored for rare vascular plants. Twenty-one new stations or re-locations for Adiantum pedatum var. aleuticum, Arenaria macrophylla, Kalmia latifolia, Lycopodium selago, and Thelypteris simulata are reported and the distribution of ultramafic areas in Vermont is mapped. Characteristic vegetation on dunite outcrops below 2000 feet elevation is described. Threatened or endangered classification of the rare species is discussed. Lycopodium selago is proposed as a threatened species in Vermont.
23314553|Over a period of 52 years (193384) 43 annual surveys were made to monitor changes in the abundance and distribution of eelgrass (Zostera marina) at Cape Ann, Massachusetts. Intensive observations were made throughout the length of the Annisquam Tidal River and adjacent coves in Annisquam Harbor. After the epidemic of eelgrass disease (193032), eelgrass persisted only as a small patch in Goose Cove. Gradually additional patches appeared in the Annisquam System and a peak was reached in 1971-72, then eelgrass declined during 197377, with a recovery during 197882. This recovery was followed by almost total disappearance again in 1984. Fluctuations in annual precipitation, with consequent changes in salinity, were not always related to changes in eelgrass abundance. Wet years were favorable for the growth and spread of eelgrass, but with the exception of drought years related to a general epidemic along the north Atlantic coast (1930 and 1941), dry years did not retard eelgrass recovery at Cape Ann.
23314557|Mertensia maritima and Sagina nodosa ssp. nodosa are uncommon in Maine. S. nodosa ssp. borealis is considered rare. The results of a survey of 13 islands in Machias Bay show seven previously unreported stations for M. maritima and five each for S. nodosa ssp. nodosa and S. nodosa ssp. borealis. Variability in the characteristics used to separate the two subspecies of S. nodosa was found.
23314552|Red pine, the rarest coniferous tree species in Newfoundland, was earlier known from only eight locations of unknown ecological and mensurational characteristics. This study identifies 20 stands in three distinct geographic areas. Stands range from a few trees of varying density to those exceeding 100 ha containing several thousand trees. Red pine is found principally on coarse-textured sands and gravels of glacial outwash or lake bottom material, but is not entirely thus restricted, as two stands (Charles Arm and near Birchy Lake) are growing on bedrock or shattered bedrock with some mor humus cover. Repeated large wildfires around the turn of the century and more recently in 1946, 1961, 1977 and 1979, gravel extraction, and severe competition from more shade-tolerant coniferous trees have contributed to its decline.
23314566|The Seabrook Dunes, located in Seabrook, New Hampshire, represents the largest coastal sand dune remnant in the state. In 1982, a floristic inventory was conducted at this backdune community that documented 141 vascular plants. Special attention was given to nine rare species: Artemisia caudata and Puccinellia paupercula var. alaskana, rare; Ammophila breviligulata and Salicornia bigelovii, threatened; and Hudsonia ericoides ssp. tomentosa and Salicornia virginica, endangered. Three other endangered species, Arenaria peploides var. robusta, Aristida tuberculosa and Cyperus grayii occur in New Hampshire only at the Seabrook Dunes. The Seabrook Dune's populations of Ammophila breviligulata, Hudsonia ericoides and Salicornia virginica represent the most significant populations for these taxa in New Hampshire. The vegetation was described, mapped and classified into seven types: sunken forests, dunegrass, tall thickets, short shrub thickets, wet swales, salt marsh and drift-line.
23314569|The chromosome numbers of 245 individuals representing 145 taxa as well as hybrids from 21 genera are reported. The sample includes taxa with chromosomal base numbers of x = 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9. The following numbers are first reports for the taxa: Aster chilensis Nees, 2n = ca. 96; A. gormanii Piper, 2n = 9II; A. ledophyllus var. covillei (Greene) Cronq., 2n = 9II; A. perelegans Nels. & Macbr., 2n = 9II; A. radulinus Gray, 2n = 18. Supernumerary chromosomes were found in Aster prenanthoides T. & G., Erigeron inornatus Gray var. inornatus, Gutierrezia sarothrae (Pursh) Britt. & Rusby, Haplopappus venetus (H.B.K.) Blake, Lessingia nemaclada Greene, and Macheranthera commixta Greene.
23314575|The epizoic alga Basicladia vivipara is reported from Cook County, Illinois. Observations with regard to its growth and general morphology are compared to the type description.
23314574|The diatom Gomphonema angustatum var. sarcophagus (Greg.) Grun. is reduced to synonymy and the description of the nominate variety emended.
23314573|Betula alleghaniensis, B. cordifilia, and B. papyrifera from the Lake Superior region of Minnesota were compared morphologically in order to infer whether B. cordifolia is likely to be a hybrid of the other two species. Multivariate distance relationships based on 11 characters from leaves, pistillate catkins, or fruits suggested that such a hybrid status for B. cordifolia is unlikely. Chromosome counts from the literature are also inconsistent with this hypothesized hybrid ancestry.
23314563|The surviving trailside colony of Potentilla robbinsiana has declined in both number of reproducing plants (14.1%) and in area occupied (15.8%) during the period 19731983. Major causes of this mortality were hiker disturbance, drought, and frost heaving. Hiker impact has recently been reduced by increased regulation and the relocation of a short segment of the Appalachian Trail. Drought-caused mortality is largely limited to seedlings. Frost heaving is believed to be the most important current cause of mature plant mortality, especially in years of reduced snowfall. At the same time, frost heaving is believed to play a key role in slowing the invasion of other alpine plants, thus benefitting P. robbinsiana.
23314571|The correct name for Cyperus albomarginatus, a pantropical and warm-temperate sedge, is shown to be C. flavicomus Michaux.
23314565|Patterns of morphological variation within the genus Caulophyllum are documented by principal components analysis, which supports the recognition of C. giganteum and C. thalictroides in eastern North America, and C. robustum in eastern Asia. The two North American species are sympatrically distributed and reproductively isolated by staggered flowering times. Analysis of mixed populations of C. giganteum and C. thalictroides from northern Ohio further demonstrates the morphological and phenological divergence between these two species.
23314568|Veronica beccabunga L., indigenous to Eurasia, was introduced into North America toward the latter part of the nineteenth century. Originally confined to the East Coast of the United States, the range of the species has expanded to include seven states and two Canadian provinces. Historical evidence implicates ballast disposal in the initial introduction of the species, although multiple introductions may have occurred. Compared with other non-indigenous aquatic plants, the spread of V. beccabunga has been slower and less conspicuous. Interspecific competition with the native flora may have kept the progress of the species in check. The presently known distribution of V. beccabunga is mapped for North America. The species is dispersed mainly by plant fragments dislodged during periods of high water flow.
23314567|An inventory was made in the summer of 1982 of 42 vascular plant species previously identified as rare, threatened, or endangered in the coastal regions of seven New Hampshire towns. Field work was conducted to confirm historical records and investigate appropriate habitats for new sites. Of the 42 species, 14 are considered rare, 11 threatened, 13 endangered and 4 are believed to be extirpated from this area. Forty-eight new sites are reported, 12 of which are new town records.
23314570|Carex caesariensis was previously hypothesized to be a C. trichocarpa  C. walteriana hybrid, and has been variously treated as a species, as a hybrid, or has not been recognized at all in floras covering northeastern North America. Scatter diagrams and discriminant analysis suggest that it is a C. trichocarpa  C. lanuginosa hybrid. The diagnostic character combination includes perigynia with relatively short beaks (1.32.1 mm) and relatively short teeth (0.71.3 mm), elongate true sterile culms with nodes, and sheaths red-tinged at the apex and red-dotted on the inner band. Described originally from New Jersey, C. caesariensis is newly reported from Pennsylvania.
23314572|Carex jamesii Schwein. is reported new to Minnesota. The Carex flora of the state now stands at 143 species. The area where carices from four floristic provinces intermingle is illustrated and discussed as to its apparent relationship to Carex jamesii and other areas of floristic transition in the Great Lakes region.
23314589|A white-flowered variant of painted trillium, Trillium undulatum, is described as forma enotatum. The new form is distinguished from forma undulatum by lack of a red blaze near the base of the petals. It is known from three populations in the southern Appalachian Mountains of Georgia and North Carolina.
23314586|The first documented field observation of Malaxis paludosa in Minnesota since 1938 is reported. Herbarium specimens confirm the occurrence of the species in five counties in the state; three represent newly published records. The species occurs in Alaska, Canada and Eurasia. Description of the habitat and list of associated species is provided. One site is reported where M. paludosa grows sympatrically with its congeners M. unifolia and M. monophyllos.
23314590|Eight species of Monnina are known to occur in Central America: M. costaricensis Chod., M. crepinii Chod., M. guatemalensis Chod., M. saprogena Donn. Sm., M. sylvatica Schlecht. & Cham., M. xalapensis H. B. K., and two new species, M. ferreyrae Taylor and M. parasylvatica Taylor, described herein. Monnina xalapensis is treated here as a widely ranging and variable species that includes M. pittieri Chod. and M. latisepala Blake. Reports of the occurrence of M. pterocarpa DC. and M. brachystachya Griseb. in Central America have not been confirmed.
23314591|The genus Ribes has not been monographed on a worldwide basis since 1907, and this revision of sect. Grossularia is the first in a series of studies on this economically important genus. In the present study over 11,000 herbarium specimens were examined and extensive fieldwork conducted. Herbarium specimens examined provided detailed information about variation on a broad geographic scale in addition to allowing the distribution of each species to be plotted. Herbarium based studies were supplemented with field studies that provided an understanding of the variation within the section at the population level. Ability to contrast the intrapopulational variation indicated by field studies with broad interpopulational variation found from herbarium specimens allowed the assignment of taxonomic rank with confidence. Field studies were conducted through most of the range of the section in North America. A sample of herbarium specimens representing most of the variance within the section was analyzed by multivariate numerical taxonomic methods. The seventeen species recognized in sect. Grossularia in North America by Berger in 1924 are reduced to nine species, one having five subspecies, one with two varieties, and one with three varieties. The subspecies represent new combinations and one of the varieties has been re-established.
23314587|Morphologic features of the spikelets of Aristida intermedia Scribn. & Ball and A. longespica Poiret were compared using principal components and stepwise discriminant analyses. Major phenetic overlap existed between the two taxa. Central awn and lateral awn lengths were the best discriminators angle could not be used effectively. A single species with two varieties is proposed, var. longespica and var. geniculata (Raf.) Fern.
23314583|Talinum appalachianum Wolf, known from only one station in Alabama, is not distinct from T. parviflorum Nutt. Plants of T. parviflorum were sampled from Texas, Arkansas and Kansas and were compared with T. appalachianum. Plants of the four populations had the same chromosome number (2n = 24), very late diurnal anthesis, and were predominantly self-pollinating. Population means for four floral traits overlapped: petal length, number of stamens, style length and number of ovules. Talinum teretifolium Pursh appears to be an allotetraploid derivative of T. mengesii Wolf and T. parviflorum. Crosses between the latter two species produced sterile hybrids similar to T. teretifolium in floral morphology and pattern of diurnal anthesis. Fertile polyploid flowers, which developed after colchicine treatment, produced fertile offspring when crossed to T. teretifolium, selfed or sibbed.
23314588|The correct name for the grass known as Aristida affinis (Schultes) Kunth in the United States is A. palustris (Chapman) Vasey, A. affinis being a synonym of A. purpurescens Poiret. The taxonomic relationship of A. lanosa Muhl. ex Elliott and A. palustris was assessed using principal components and stepwise discriminant analyses. The two taxa are clearly distinguished by a combination of several vegetative and spikelet structures and are not closely related phenetically.
23312808|Kejimkujik National Park lies near the headwaters of the Mersey River, in the center of southwestern Nova Scotia on the Atlantic Upland. Lakes and streams are numerous; in this glaciated area, granite, slate and greywacke areas are represented, along with numerous drumlins. Distributions of coastal-plain plants in this protected area are discussed. Maps of Hydrocotyle umbellata L. and Cephalanthus occidentalis L. are given as examples of plants that are rare or unknown in the Tusket River valley.
23312802|The Appalachian Vaccinium erythrocarpum and the SE Asian V. japonicum are morphologically indistinct and share a similar chromosome number (n = 12). Their flavonoid profiles are also quite similar; however, the two taxa do show some difference in their capacity to accumulate derivatives of the two flavonols kaempferol and quercetin: V. japonicum accumulates both, while V. erythrocarpum accumulates only quercetin. Reciprocal crossing experiments between the taxa produce fertile hybrids. Therefore in the absence of a potential genetic barrier and no morphological gap, the reduction of these vicariads to subspecies is warranted. Consequently V. erythrocarpum subspecies japonicum, comb. et stat. nov. is proposed.
23312805|Differences in reproductive ecology and floral characteristics were investigated in three sympatric species of peatland orchids. Arethusa produced the highest percentage of flowers but the lowest percentage of seed capsules while Pogonia showed the opposite pattern. Calopogon had an intermediate percentage of flowers and a low capsule set. The pollination biology of these three species is discussed.
23312804|Naturally refrigerated (algific) talus slopes provide microclimates suitable for disjunct or relict populations of plants and invertebrates. Of 39 species of bryophytes collected on four of Wisconsin's largest algific slopes, one-third were restricted to cold air vents. Distribution of species on these slopes appears to be influenced by perennially stable air temperatures and condensate occurring at outflow vents. The moss Seligeria donniana is new to Wisconsin.
23312801|Aster section Biotia is an eastern North American group of asters having a base chromosome number of x = 9. Phenetic analyses of isozyme gene frequency data show that the species native to the eastern deciduous forest region, Aster divaricatus (2n = 18), A. chlorolepis (2n = 36), A. schreberi (2n = 54), and A. macrophyllus (2n = 72) are very closely related and perhaps form an increasing polyploid series. Isozyme data reveal that the two species whose ranges are restricted to the Piedmont, A. mirabilis (2n = 18) and A. jonesiae (2n = 54), are very closely allied and are more distantly related to the previous group. The endemic and midwestern A. furcatus (2n = 18) is isozymically most unlike the other species in the section. Isozyme data do not rule out the possibility that the hexaploids, A. schreberi and A. jonesiae, originated by retrogressive polyploidy rather than by progressive (increasing) polyploidy. The hypothesis that A. chlorolepis arose from A. divaricatus by autopolyploidy is supported by the electrophoretic data. The relationships of the diploids to one another and the mode of origin of A. macrophyllus are not clarified by the isozyme analyses.
23312809|In 1989, Eupatorium leucolepis var. novaeangliae was discovered growing on the northeast shoreline of North (Big) Hog pond in Sandwich, Barnstable County, Massachusetts. This record is the first for the species in Barnstable County, and represents the easternmost site in its range.
23312807|Carex polymorpha is a rare sedge of eastern North America, currently a candidate for Federal listing. Populations in Maine and Massachusetts were studied to establish a scientific basis for population monitoring, management, and protection. We examined potential and actual fecundity, and used pollination experiments to test hypotheses regarding breeding systems. Sexual reproductive characters were compared with the common species, C. vestita. Studies of vegetative reproduction of C. polymorpha included determination of rhizome growth patterns, above- and below-ground biomass, organ dimensions and dynamics of shoots in permanent plots. Both vegetative growth and sexual reproduction appear to be correlated with canopy closure. Numbers of flowering shoots, flowers and seeds appear to be limited by light availability. Both the number of achenes and the percent seed set per flowering shoot are similar in Carex polymorpha and C. vestita. Density of vegetative shoots and of leaf and rhizome sizes are also correlated with canopy cover: biomass production appears to be limited by light levels. Shoot dynamics are correlated with light and microhabitat type. The least stable shoot populations are in disturbed, open sand sites, while shoot populations in undisturbed, open canopy sites have high turnover rates but stable sizes. These results suggest that canopy management may be critical to maintenance of vegetative and sexual reproduction in established populations of Carex polymorpha.
23312806|Approximately 200 species in the family Compositae have been collected in the Guianas (Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana), South America. Members of the tribe Heliantheae s.l. collected in the Guianas or expected there are listed, and a key to the genera is provided.
23312803|Hymenoxys herbacea (comb. nov.), a federally-listed, threatened species endemic to Illinois, Ohio, and Ontario, has been treated formerly as H. acaulis var. glabra. Hymenoxys herbacea is a self-incompatible aneuploid with x = 14, genetically and morphologically separable from H. acaulis. The nomenclatural history of this taxon is summarized.
23312756|In North America the genus Primula has several representatives in section Aleuritia Duby and section Armerina Lindley. These sections were originally treated as related subsections in the large section Farinosae Pax. Their members have been the subject of much misinterpretation, particularly in arctic and boreal North America where few collections and no modern systematic treatment existed. North American members of these two sections are reviewed here with particular attention to the arctic and boreal taxa. Section Aleuritia (x = 9) is represented by 4 diploid species: P. alcalina, P. anvilensis, P. mistassinica, and P. specuicola, and 4 polyploid species: P. borealis (4x), P. incana (6x), P. laurentiana (8x), and P. stricta (14x). Section Armerina (x = 11) is represented by a diploid species, P. nutans (formerly P. sibirica), and a tetraploid species, P. egaliksensis.
23312755|Carex albolutescens and C. longii (section Ovales) are considered conspecific by some authors. A survey of herbarium material revealed that they are morphologically distinct and simply represent a misapplication of species names. On the other hand, C. albolutescens is easily confused with a third species, C. festucacea. Diagnostic characters useful in identifying these three species are reviewed and new ones suggested. A species key and descriptions are provided.
23312752|In a common garden experiment, three morphological characters, corolla lobe length, corolla lobe width, and degree of leaf dissection, reliably distinguished the three varieties of Phacelia dubia as well as the closely related P. maculata. The taxonomic merit of P. dubia var. interior was confirmed by this analysis, but prior reports that this taxon is dwarfed in habit were not verified. Significant intravarietal variation among populations occurred in P. dubia var. georgiana and P. maculata, two taxa endemic to granite outcrops in the southeastern United States. The occurrence of P. dubia in South Carolina was documented, but the varietal identity of these populations remains unclear; these plants probably represent an incipient variety.
23312754|The two forms of abiotic pollination, hydrophily and anemophily, exhibit contrasting taxonomic, ecological and phylogenetic patterns. Anemophily is widespread among angiosperms whereas hydrophily occurs in only one dicot and seven monocot families. Ecological limitations of hydrophily likely parallel those of anemophily, yet the processes involved in the former are not well understood. Although hydrophily is in all probability polyphyletic, the phylogenetic relationships among hydrophilous groups are unresolved. Specialization in reproductive structures that accompany hydrophilous pollination makes the recognition of homology difficult, thus phylogenetic hypotheses in groups in which hydrophily occurs are tentative. Hydrophily and anemophily are both geographically widespread, yet the general trend of decreasing incidence of anemophily with decreasing latitude is lacking in the distribution of hydrophily. This contrast may be associated with markedly different geographic patterns of species richness in aquatic versus terrestrial habitats.
23312753|Acicarpha tribuloides Juss. (Calyceraceae) has a natural distribution in southern Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, and northeastern-central Argentina. This species has also been collected in the United States, and Small (1933) reported it as being naturalized in northern Florida. Recent herbarium studies reveal that Acicarpha tribuloides occurred as a ballast plant in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Alabama and Florida. Small's account was based on two specimens collected by Curtiss in 1885; no specimens of Acicarpha tribuloides collected after 1888 are known. Acicarpha tribuloides appears to be a well adapted weed in South America based on its abundance, multiple adaptations for dispersal, and on its ability to invade disturbed habitats and cultivated fields. This species may have failed to become naturalized in the United States due to: (1) climatic and edaphic barriers; (2) inability to compete with native and naturalized species; (3) low reproductive capacity.
23312751|Reproduction in populations of Asclepias quadrifolia and A. syriaca was examined at a western Vermont study site. While both field and forest populations of A. syriaca appeared to be heavily pollinated by Apis spp. and Strymon spp., observed pollinia insertion rates for the locally rare A. quadrifolia were among the lowest reported for the genus. Pollen and resource availability together are shown to closely account for the observed fruit production of <.007 fruits per A. quadrifolia flower. Comparisons of data for A. quadrifolia in Missouri, where the species is common, suggest that reproductive limitations may be an important factor contributing to the scarcity of A. quadrifolia in Vermont.
23312790|A two-year field study (1987 and 1989) of mixed populations of Goodyera repens, G. tesselata, and G. oblongifolia and a study of relevant herbarium material showed that the flowering sequence of these three species is different in Thunder Bay District, Ontario, from what has been reported for several areas in somewhat more southern regions. The sequence in more southern regions is G. tesselata to G. repens to G. oblongifolia. The sequence in this northern area is G. repens to G. tesselata to G. oblongifolia. As G. tesselata arose through hybridization of the other two species, this latter sequence could have important consequences for the reproductive biology of the group.
23312796|The only record of Salix pellita in New York is based on a single sterile herbarium specimen. Visits to the collection locality revealed that the specimen is misidentified, and the taxon remains undocumented in the state flora.
23312791|The vascular plant type collection in MU consists of 439 sheets of mainly North American specimens representing 419 taxa. Many of the sheets are from the non-Ohio holdings of Oberlin College (OC). A brief history of the MU collection and a complete listing of the specimens are given, with annotations correcting mistakes in protologues or monographic accounts involving a few of the specimens.
23312788|Based on previously published biosystematic data, we conclude that variation in the Stellaria longipes group is due to a complex interaction of phenotypic plasticity and genetic variability. Only a single species (S. longipes) is recognized, with two intraspecific taxa, Stellaria longipes subsp. longipes and S. longipes subsp. arenicola, comb. nov.
23312794|Dodecatheon frenchii is reported for Alabama. Its location in the northwest portion of the state represents the most southerly distribution for the species.
23312789|The authorship of Cymophyllus and Cymophyllus fraseri is corrected to Mackenzie ex Britt. Cymophyllus fraseri, hitherto referring to Fraser's sedge, is considered to be a taxonomic synonym of the following new combination: Cymophyllus fraserianus (Ker-Gawler) Kartesz & Gandhi.
23312787|A new, pale form of Pedicularis groenlandica Retz. (elephant's-head lousewort) from Churchill, Manitoba is described as forma chlorina Staniforth, Maycock & Svoboda. Individuals of this form lack the normal reddish anthocyanin pigment found throughout foliage, stems and flowers of the type variety. Six mature plants possessed old infructescences that predated their discovery by three years. These structures, together with the observation of numerous seedlings and presence of developing seeds in capsules, suggested that the colony is well established. Information regarding a new far-northern record of the white flowered form (f. alba Cody) of P. lanata Cham. & Sch. is provided.
23312786|Recent systematic work on the Adiantum pedatum L. complex has demonstrated that the serpentine maidenhair fern in eastern North America, to which the name A. pedatum L. var. aleuticum Rupr. has traditionally been applied, is a disjunct member of the western North American lineage, a lineage divergent at the species level from the typical maidenhairs of the eastern woodlands. Also present in eastern North America is a previously unrecognized tetraploid species, the allopolyploid derivative of a sterile hybrid between the serpentine and the typical maidenhair ferns. Here a description of the new species is provided and a new combination is proposed for the western North American maidenhairs, including the disjunct serpentine populations in eastern North America. Although phenotypic plasticity, the existence of the previously unrecognized allotetraploid, and the presence of backcross hybrids have obscured species boundaries, the three species in North America are morphologically distinct and can be reliably separated using non-technical characters.
23312864|The flora of the Monomoy Islands has been sporadically investigated from 1932 to 1989. Previous plant species lists and herbarium vouchers were reviewed and compared to floral inventories during 1981, 1983, 1984, 1985, and 1989. A master plant list was then developed that noted the abundance and general distribution of each plant species, as well as possible misidentifications from previous studies.
23312861|We describe the relationships between vegetation patterns, depth of sediment accumulation, and distance to shore in Arcadia Bog, a small moat bog in Belchertown, Massachusetts. A Fringe Moat community occurs primarily where sediment depths are 02 m and at 010 m from shore. Shrub Thickets are least restricted in their distribution, occurring at 030 m from shore above 010 m of sediment. The true bog community (Dwarf Tree/Shrub) is divided into two typesTamarack/Spruce centered at 1525 m from shore above 711 m of sediment and Spruce/Tamarack at the deeper, more distant central portion of the basin (2040 m from shore, 1013 m depth). This community is uncommon in central Massachusetts. Variations in surface-water pH suggest that the distributions of at least some species may be influenced by nutrient availability. Additional studies would be required to determine the relationship between physiographic location and water chemistry and flow, the ecological factors most likely controlling vegetation patterns in Arcadia Bog.
23312865|The continued increase of logging roads makes interior Washington County, Maine, more readily accessible to the botanist. Ten species are reported for the first time from Washington County, including eight native species, one introduced species, and one hybrid. Several of these species are considered rare in Maine. Sawtelle Heath in Baileyville (Woodland) is suggested for further study.
23312866|Juncus vaseyi is an addition to the native flora of Vermont. A small population is vulnerable to human activities and natural succession in the Lake Champlain Valley of northwestern Vermont. It is recommended for state endangered species status.
23312863|The forest on a 6 hectare island in Halfway Pond is dominated by Fagus grandifolia, Tsuga canadensis and Pinus strobus. This composition contrasts with the vegetation around the pond, which is predominantly Pinus rigida and Quercus ilicifolia. Most large trees on the island are 150200 years old, with a few 300-year-old Nyssa sylvatica. Growth ring analyses indicate that a hurricane in 1944 was the most significant disturbance event in the last 130150 years. Additional evidence suggests that the present composition and structure of the island forest reflect selective logging of large trees in the 18th and early 19th centuries. Comparisons of the island's flora with fossil pollen spectra from nearby sites (Patterson and Backman, 1988) suggest that the distinctive vegetation on Halfway Pond Island has been maintained for centuries and is not representative of regional pre-settlement forests, which were predominantly white pine and oak. Fire has probably always been less frequent on the island than on the surrounding landscape, a factor that would account for these differences in composition.
23312862|An account with keys, illustrations, and distribution maps of the three species of North American Aconogonon (= Polygonum sect. Aconogonon) is given. Epidermal anatomy of the leaf and pollen morphology are also briefly studied. One new variety, A. phytolaccifolium var. glabrum S.-P. Hong, is described. Two new combinations proposed are A. hultenianum var. lapathifolium (Cham. & Schlechtend.) S.-P. Hong and A. davisiae var. glabrum (Jones) S.-P. Hong. Two species names are relegated to synonymy. A neotype for A. hultenianum var. lapathifolium (Cham. & Schlechtend.) S.-P. Hong, and a lectotype for A. davisiae (Brewer ex A. Gray) Sojk are selected.
23314252|To determine whether Eleocharis tuberculosa var. pubnicoensis should be treated as a variety or as a form, herbarium material from throughout eastern North America and plants in southern Nova Scotian populations were examined. The variety pubnicoensis with smooth achene bristles was found to be confined to Great Pubnico Lake in Yarmouth County, southwestern Nova Scotia. Correlation analysis of population samples from 4 of 5 Nova Scotian lakes suggested that 4 of 5 characters associated with smooth bristles are actually a consequence of immaturity of fruiting spikes, and the remaining character is not significantly correlated. Discriminant analysis using the same characters of the same populations indicated that groupings based on bristle type were less significant and had higher misclassification rates than those based on spike maturity (based on disarticulation) and water depth. Due to a lack of confidence in a genetically based ecological and geographic integrity and a single morphological character, it seems most appropriate to treat pubnicoensis as a form.
23314254|Seed coat morphology is examined in 16 taxa of Gentianopsis, Pterygocalyx, and Gentianella, including representatives from 14 taxa of Gentianopsis, to resolve inconsistencies in previous reports and make new observations using a low vacuum mode of SEM. Four characters are proposed to describe variation in seed coat morphology of this group: (1) the outer periclinal walls of testa; (2) sculpting of inner periclinal walls; (3) seed shape; and (4) seed length. The distinctive papillate seeds of many species of Gentianopsis are the result of inflated outer periclinal walls of testa cells. In some species, the outer periclinal walls of the testa are collapsed inwards, revealing previously unreported sculpting on the inner periclinal walls. Seeds are irregularly angular-ovate or fusiform in Gentianopsis and discoid in Pterygocalyx. Seed length varies from 0.22 to 1.0 mm. These data provide another line of evidence for phylogenetic relationships of Gentianopsis and Pterygocalyx to other members of Swertiinae, and illuminate the affinities of fossil seeds from New England that have been assigned to Gentianopsis.
23314253|Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to determine whether populations of the global rarity Scirpus longii (Long's bulrush) are vulnerable to loss by introgression of genetic material from the weedy S. cyperinus (woolgrass). Shoots from 104 Scirpus plants were obtained from 10 sites in the watershed of the lower Medway River in Nova Scotia, Canada. A putative site of introgression (a seasonally flooded bog) was divided into five subsites: one large stand of vegetative plants and four patches of annually flowering plants clustered at one end of the site. Thirty-five dominant DNA markers were found among individuals from all sites and eight species-specific markers were identified for each of the two species. Nineteen different combinations of species-specific markers were present in the 39 individuals from the site of introgression, and, as expected for introgression, there was strong correlation (r = -0.80, p < 0.0001) between the numbers of the two types of markers. The vegetative and flowering subsites had distinctive hybrid indices: 0.76 and 0.27 of S. longii genome, respectively. The former indicates that S. cyperinus contributed about one-quarter of the genetic material of the plants from the subsite that accounts for more than 99% of the Scirpus at the site of introgression. Hybrid indices also show evidence of introgression in two of the 12 plants obtained at one of the presumed S. longii sites. Our results indicate that gene flow has occurred between S. cyperinus and S. longii at two S. longii populations, hybrid plants are capable of sexual reproduction, and Long's bulrush in Nova Scotia is vulnerable to loss by introgression. Conservation at the landscape level is needed to suppress anthropogenic disturbances that might allow S. cyperinus to threaten the genetic integrity of S. longii.
23314251|Tree species composition of hardwood forests of the northeastern United States corresponds with soil chemistry, and differential performance along soil calcium (Ca) gradients has been proposed as a mechanism for enforcing this fidelity of species to site. We conducted studies in a southern New England forest to test if surface-soil Ca is more important than other factors in determining survival of seedlings of six common canopy tree species. Our hypothesis was that the calcicole species Acer saccharum and Fraxinus americana would show elevated survival rates at higher Ca levels, and that the calcifuge species A. rubrum, Fagus grandifolia, Quercus rubra, and Tsuga canadensis would show lower survival at high Ca. Other factors examined were 1) exchangeable magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), and aluminum (Al); 2) understory light availability; and 3) identity of overstory tree species. In one study, seedlings were transplanted into plots fertilized with Ca or Mg sulfate and survival was measured over 2 years. In the other study, 1-year or 2-year survival of naturally established seedlings in stands dominated by mature trees of one of the six study species was followed. Fertilization with Ca or Mg did not affect survival of planted seedlings, but ambient exchangeable Al was strongly negatively correlated with survival of F. americana. Of the three species with sufficient naturally established seedlings, exchangeable Al plus a proxy for light (overstory tree identity) were the most important determinants of survival. Survival of A. saccharum declined and A. rubrum and F. grandifolia increased at higher levels of exchangeable Al. This pattern is consistent with the positions of these species along the soil gradient. We conclude that soil chemistry effects on seedling survival play a role in establishing the soil relationships characteristic of these species as adults, but that Al is more important than Ca in establishing these effects during the seedling stage.
23314701|Puccinellia rupestris, British alkali grass or stiff saltmarsh grass, is a European halophyte that has only been documented in North America between 1867 and 1880 from coastal zones of New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. We documented Puccinellia rupestris from southern Ohio along an annually salted roadside habitat in 2007. Our collection represents the fourth United States record and the first vouchered report of this taxon from North America in 127 years. The stable population of this exotic grass demonstrates its ability to migrate inland from a coastal environment and become a newly established member the Ohio vascular flora.
23314700|The seaweed flora from James Bay, Canada is compared with three contiguous northeastern Canadian Arctic areas (Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, and the Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area extending northward to the Arctic Ocean). A conspicuous reduction pattern was evident with 131 taxa recorded for the Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area, 106 for Hudson Strait, 81 from Hudson Bay, and 44 in James Bay. The Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area has a more rocky open coastal environment and higher salinities than James Bay, which is more highly sedimented and impacted by hydroelectric development and freshwater discharge. The Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area (3230.5) has a higher mean number of shared taxa (90.0  18.4 SE) than James Bay (37.6  2.7 SE), while Hudson Strait and Hudson Bay have intermediate values of 78  14.1 SE and 64  9.2 SE, respectively. The combined flora from the four areas consists of 164 taxa, including 49 red, 65 brown, 1 chrysophyte, and 49 green algae. Fifty of these total taxa (31%) were only found in one area, with 25 occurring between Ellesmere Island and Baffin Island, 13 within the Strait proper, and 6 in both Hudson and James Bays. Strong habitat and salinity gradients, as well as the great distances between collection sites and the haphazard nature of collections may have contributed to these restrictive patterns. Cheney's (1977) floristic ratio documents that all four geographies (including their composite flora) have cold water floras. Four new distributional records are documented from James Bay: Chaetomorpha minima, Elachista fucicola, Phyllophora pseudoceranoides, and Spyridia filamentosa. The cryptogenic taxon Spyridia, which has unclear origins, is a warm-water disjunct in the northwestern Atlantic previously known only from one site in Nova Scotia and a few locations in southern Maine/New Hampshire but mostly south of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. A single introduced species (Dumontia contorta from Europe) is recorded from James Bay and the Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area, while none are documented from the other areas.
23314699|Andropogon gerardii (Big Bluestem) is a dominant grass of the North American tallgrass prairie. It is also found in remnant populations in the eastern United States, including North and South Carolina, often in association with other species with prairie affinities. We characterized eight A. gerardii population sites across various physiographic regions of North and South Carolina. A total of 362 quadrats (1 m  1 m) were sampled during the 20062008 growing seasons for species occurrence and site and quadrat frequency. Associated species were assigned a commonness index (CI). A Srensen's Community Coefficient was used to determine floristic similarities among the sites. In addition, soil samples in three quadrats were sampled at each site at three depths (010 cm, 1120 cm, and 2130 cm) and analyzed for pH; organic C and N contents; extractable P, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, Mn; and CEC (cation exchange capacity). A total of 306 vascular plant species was identified comprising 64 families, including 99 (32%) graminoids. There were 61 (20%) Poaceae and 63 (20%) Asteraceae. Species per quadrat ranged from 1 to 13 with a mean of 5. Andropogon gerardii had the highest CI value (5900), followed by Rubus spp. (1260). Community Coefficient values were < 0.5 for all pairings between sites, indicating high divergence in species composition among even nearby sites. There were 14 rare or watch-listed species identified, including the federal endangered Helianthus schweinitzii at Troy Prairie. A total of 153 (50%) of the species had been previously described as occurring in prairie-like associations. Soil pH values varied from 4.8 to 6.9 among the sites and depths. Ca and Mg nutrient values were also highly variable. Andropogon gerardii was found at high frequencies across all sites, indicating its broad tolerance for a variety of edaphic conditions.
23314697|Calcareous fens are wetlands fed by calcareous groundwater and with predominantly low (< 1 m) vegetation. They are critical habitat for rare species, and development of tall vegetation alters this habitat. Our purpose was to better understand how human activities influence the fen habitat. In 1997 in eastern New York and northwestern Connecticut we located 25 fens using soil maps and field surveys, and delimited these sites using 73 indicator plants classified a priori as fen species, disturbance species, or non-fen woody species. In three plots in each fen we measured species cover, water table depth, organic matter, total inorganic nitrogen, groundwater pH and conductivity, and described land use on and within 100 m of each fen to identify the conditions that may lead to fen degradation. Total inorganic nitrogen correlated most significantly with plant species composition. Fen-species richness was negatively correlated with nitrogen, whereas non-fen woody species richness and cover were positively correlated with nitrogen, suggesting that nitrogen inputs contribute to dominance of tall vegetation in fens. Richness of disturbance indicator species was negatively correlated with soil organic matter. Thus, fens with mineral soil layers may be more susceptible to dominance by non-fen species. Percent cover of disturbance indicator species was greater in fens near public roads. Cover of Lythrum salicaria, an invasive weed, was positively correlated with land-use intensity and was greater near public roads. The use of soil maps, indicator plant richness and cover, inorganic nitrogen, water table, and soil organic matter may be an efficient method for locating, delimiting, and assessing the ecological status of fens.
23314698|The Adirondack Mountains of New York State hold some of the southernmost communities of alpine vegetation in the eastern United States. Containing the greatest concentration of rare and endangered species in New York State, this 12,000-year-old ecosystem is important to understanding the ecological history of northeastern North America. In order to monitor floristic and vegetational shifts over time, 11 permanent transects were established in 1984 on four summits (Wright, Algonquin, Boundary, and Iroquois) of the MacIntyre Range in the Adirondack High Peaks region. Using the point-intercept method, all 11 transects were sampled in 1984, 1994, 2002, and 2007. Vegetation composition changed significantly over the 23-year period, with an overall decrease in bryophytes/lichens and an increase in vascular plants, indicating that vascular plants were replacing bryophytes, particularly in areas not disturbed by hikers. Community similarity was high among all transects, and increased with time for vascular plants as they became more abundant, indicating a successional convergence. Compositional shifts may also reflect effects of global warming and atmospheric deposition on alpine plant communities.
23314680|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the taxa of Magnoliidae and Hamamelidae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. Of the 227 taxa treated (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms), all are mapped based primarily on specimens in major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with most data derived from the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in standard manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23314678|A new species, Dicerandra fumella, is described for the Florida panhandle and adjacent Alabama and compared with other taxa in the D. linearifolia complex. An extensive hybrid zone between this new species and D. linearifolia var. robustior is located in the Marianna Lowland, west of the Apalachicola River in Florida. Dicerandra linearifolia, given the superfluous name "Ceranthera linearifolia" by Stephen Elliott nearly 200 years ago and the type for his Ceranthera, can no longer be considered pandemic to the southeastern coastal plain of the United States.
23314679|Stylisma pickeringii var. pattersonii (Convolvulaceae) is endangered in Illinois and Iowa, and occurs in scattered populations in other states. During 1999 and 2000, two insect species previously unreported from Illinois were observed visiting its flowers. This study was undertaken to survey additional insect visitors, as well as to characterize the plant community where S. pickeringii occurs. The objectives were to survey: 1) floral traits (anthesis and flower density) of S. pickeringii, 2) associated plant species, and 3) insect visitor characteristics. Floral traits were determined and associated plant species surveyed in Mason County (degraded hay field on private property) and Henderson County (dry sand prairie at the Big River State Forest), Illinois. Insects visiting flowers were collected at 10:00 a.m., 12:30 p.m., and 3:00 p.m. during June, July, and August in 2001 and 2002. Individual flowers lasted one day and remained open for 68 hours. Peak flowering occurred from early to the middle of July when S. pickeringii was the dominant species in flower. Henderson County contained a greater diversity of native plant species with less bare ground and fewer non-native species than the Mason County site. Forty-seven insect species were observed visiting S. pickeringii flowers. Most frequent visitors were Apis mellifera (Hymenoptera: Apidae), Bombylius fraudulentus (Diptera: Bombyliidae), and Heterostylum croceum (Diptera: Bombliidae). The diversity of visiting insects was higher earlier than later in the day, in July and August than June, and in Henderson than Mason County.
23314670|We performed a comparative study of the vascular flora of a serpentine outcrop, Pine Hill, and that of a granite outcrop, Settlement Quarry, from Little Deer Isle and Deer Isle, respectively, Hancock County, Maine. We established four transects along a gradient from exposed to forested areas within each outcrop. Plants were recorded for presence and percent cover from circular plots along each transect. Soil and tissue samples were collected to examine soil-tissue elemental relations. One hundred thirty-two taxa were recorded from serpentine and 89 from granite. Fifty-seven taxa were shared by both sites. Species richness ( diversity) and diversity indices (Shannon-Weaver and Simpson) suggested significant differences between sites and within sites. Principle Component Analysis suggested substrates differed significantly between sites and between exposures within sites. Tissue analyses suggested intraspecific variation with respect to tissue elemental concentrations, especially in Achillea millefolium, Oenothera biennis, Prunus virginiana, Selaginella rupestris, Spiraea alba var. latifolia, and Vaccinium angustifolium. Serpentine populations of many taxa showed low tissue Ca:Mg ratios (< 1) and high Ni concentrations. Two-way ANOVA showed significant substrate  species effects for several elements, including those that typically characterize serpentine substrates (Ca, Mg, Cr, Ni), suggesting significant genetic variation within species with respect to substrate. Finally, we compared our species list for Pine Hill with a plant survey done at Pine Hill and five additional serpentine sites of Maine in 1977 and provide a list of 285 vascular plant taxa from 62 families for serpentine in Maine.
23314671|The Allegheny River Islands Wilderness (ARIW) consists of seven islands located along 90 km of the Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River in northwestern Pennsylvania. I surveyed riparian plant communities in the ARIW to provide an inventory of the species composition and distribution of the alien flora and to identify species of potential management concern. Forty alien plant species (17.8% of the total surveyed flora) were tallied from 42 survey sites across the seven islands of the ARIW. The largely herbaceous floodplain scour community supported the greatest number of alien plant species (35 species; 18.9% of the community flora), followed by the Acer saccharinumPlatanus occidentalis floodplain forest community (23 species; 16.8% of the community flora) and the P. occidentalisCarya cordiformisUlmus rubra floodplain forest community (14 species; 12.4% of the community flora). Ten alien plant species (24.4% of the alien flora) occurred across all three community types. The alien flora of the ARIW included a range of species with varied ecological impact potential, distribution across plant communities, and difficulty of control. Potential control strategies for alien plant species in the ARIW must address the influence of an altered hydrologic regimen as well as control protocols for specific species on the islands and surrounding river corridor.
23314672|The vascular flora of Timber Island, the largest undeveloped island in Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, was surveyed, and a vegetation analysis conducted. The island was found to have 187 vascular plant species, none of which are listed as rare or endangered for the state. The combination of tree species found throughout Timber Island indicates a forest type characteristic of the Central New Hampshire region. In the vegetation analysis, abundance and frequency data were recorded from 106 study plots and analyzed using a two-way indicator species analysis program (TWINSPAN). Six cover types (CT) were defined: Pinus strobusGaylussacia baccata CT, Fagus grandifoliaOstrya virginiana CT, Pinus resinosaGaylussacia baccataVaccinium angustifolium CT, Tsuga canadensis CT, Acer rubrumDulichium arundinaceum CT, and Ruderal CT. Two additional cover types were recognized through qualitative field observation alone: Shoreline CT, and Vernal Woodland Pool CT. While not included in the floristic analysis, twenty-four bryophyte species were documented on the island, 15 of which are new records for Belknap County. A modified Line Intercept Analysis, employed to quantify ground cover, showed that herbaceous plant and bryophyte cover was sparse (7% each), with duff and leaf litter covering 74%, exposed rock outcrop 8%, vernal pools 3%, and 1% disturbed or bare soil. Soil analysis revealed a weak correlation with cover type. Two indices of similarity, Srensen's Index and the Simple Matching Index, were utilized to compare the vascular plant flora of Timber Island to three other island floras in Lake Winnipesaukee: Rattlesnake Island, Bear Island, and Three Mile Island. Srensen's Index showed a 50.0% similarity with Bear Island, 51.1% with Rattlesnake Island, and 52.7% with Three Mile Island. The Simple Matching Index showed higher levels of similarity: Bear Island, 51.66%; Rattlesnake Island 59.51%; and Three Mile Island 65.59%.
23312479|First Minnesota records or confirmation of older records for the following angiosperms are reported: Ruellia humilis, Asclepias hirtella, Asclepias stenophylla, Aster pilosus, Shinnersoseris rostrata, Solidago bernardii, Draba norvegica, Butomus umbellatus, Polanisia jamesii, Paronychia fastigiata, Commelina erecta, Sedum integrifolium, Eleocharis rostellata, Myriophyllum spicatum, Hamamelis virginiana, Scutellaria parvula, Utricularia resupinata, Allium cernuum, Sphaeralcea coccinea, Coralorrhiza odontorhiza, Poa paludigena, Spartina gracilis, Dodecatheon media, Lysimachia quadrifolia, Saxifraga cernua, and Viola nuttallii. Phytogeographical and historical information supplementing these reports is also given. Specimens upon which the reports are based are cited.
23312480|Twenty-six species and subspecific taxa within the pennate diatom genera Cymbellonitzschia Hust., Hantzschia Grun., and Nitzschia Hass. are described from the Highland Lake District of northeastern Wisconsin. Line drawings, occasional morphological comments, and general information on their distribution within the lake district are also provided.
23312477|The genus Brassica, a native of Eurasia, has long been considered to have been introduced to the New World by European settlers around 400 B.P. (years before present). Recent examinations of charred seeds from buried fire hearths at three archaeological sites in central Maine reveal that Brassica kaber (DC.) Wheeler (charlock) occurred in the region as early as 8000 B.P., and was abundant and widespread by 2000 B.P. These findings are consistent with those from several other archaeological excavations in the northeastern United States.
23312481|Currently, Kentucky's two native Trifolium species, T. stoloniferum and T. reflexum, are each known from only one locality. Historical records indicate that T. stoloniferum was widespread on moist, fertile soils in the Bluegrass Region, and that T. reflexum occurred on drier or less fertile soils in the fomer Big Barrens Region and the Shawnee Hills. Many old records are from areas with open woodland or grassland disturbed by Indians and buffalo (Bison), and recent records are mostly from roadsides or trails through woods. The decline of these species may be attributed to changes in disturbance and consumer patterns since settlement. In cultivation, T. stoloniferum is a vigorous perennial, easily propagated from stolons, but it requires moist, fertile soil, and is sensitive to competition and herbivory. Trifolium reflexum grows more slowly and is typically biennial. The chromosome number of T. soloniferum, reported here for the first time, is the same as other eastern North American species (2n = 16).
23312478|The validity of the taxon Scenedesmus smithii Teil. and others is questioned. A strain of S. denticulatus Lagerh. was grown in cultures and variability observed. Forms were identified in these cultures which could be identified with published taxa: S. smithii Teil., S. denticulatus var. fenestrata (Teil.) Uherkov., S. denticulatus Lagerh. f. crassispinosus Hortob & Nmeth, and S. arcuatus f. spinosus Hortob. & Nmeth. Scenedesmus denticulatus plants from the Fox and Rock Rivers of Illinois are illustrated.
23312482|Southwestern New Brunswick, including the Passamaquoddy Bay area, is located in one of the richest marine environments in North America. A concentrated algal survey of this area comprising 50 littoral and sublittoral sites was undertaken in July 1986. Habitats investigated included estuaries, saltmarshes, saline lakes, sheltered and wave-exposed rocky shores, sublittoral bedrock, sediment and animal substrata. A species-poor flora was recorded, comprising 171 algae (45 Chlorophyceae, 58 Phaeophyceae and 68 Rhodophyceae) out of 352 species known for eastern Canada. Five species new to eastern Canada were detected: (Callocolax neglectus, Hildenbrandia crouanii, Phyllophora crispa, Sphacelaria caespitula and Chaetomorpha capillaris). The Halicystis ovalis gametophyte phase of Derbesia marina was also recorded for the first time. The paucity of algal species in the Passamaquoddy region was probably due to regional conditions (low sea temperatures: 8C offshore, 11C inshore) and/or local conditions (littoral blanketing by Ascophyllum nodosum, sublittoral grazing by Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis).
23312408|Type specimens are designated for J. Lunell's names in Adicea Rafinesque, A. fontana, A. opaca, A. deamii and A. nieuwlandii, all but one of which were based on multiple specimens. Adicea deamii and A. nieuwlandii are now considered synonyms of Pilea pumila (L.) A. Gray. Adicea opaca is considered synonymous with A. fontana under the name Pilea fontana (Lunell) Rydberg.
23312411|A new species, Spiranthes nebulorum Catling & Catling, is described. It occurs in southern Mexico and Guatemala on open, grassy or rocky slopes and in bogs at elevations of 20003150 m. Comparisons with related species are provided along with a distribution map and a key to Spiranthes sensu stricto in southern Mexico and Guatemala.
23312412|Carex hypsipedos C. B. Clarke (Cyperaceae) is reported for the first time in Argentina and Bolivia, where it grows in alpine meadows. Carex phalaroides Kunth var. parvula Rud. Gross, which was described from northwestern Argentina, is here considered to be conspecific with C. hypsipedos.
23312409|Diploid chromosome counts (2n = 26) are reported for the first time in Acer heldreichii and A. trautvetteri (section Acer) and in A. hyrcanum, A. opalus, A. pentapomicum, and A. syriacum (section Goniocarpa). Acer velutinum (section Acer) was a newly discovered tetraploid (2n = 52). The diploid numbers of A. caesium (section Acer) and A. monspessulanum (sectionGoniocarpa) and the tetraploid number of A. pseudoplatanus (section Acer) were confirmed. Chromosome counts may now be used to verify suspected hybrids between diploid and tetraploid taxa.
23312410|Chromosome numbers were determined from somatic material for 153 individuals representing 16 taxa from western North America. First counts (2n = 56, 70) are reported for Antennaria stolonifera Porsild. The remaining counts (2n = 28, 42, 50, 60, 70, 112, ca. 120, ca. 130, and ca. 140) support previous reports and are presented without comment.
23312413|Solidago latissimifolia Miller, herein lectotypified, is an older name for the plants currently known as S. elliottii Torrey & Gray and S. elliptica Aiton. Nomenclatural histories of the species are analyzed, and leaf characters of several similar goldenrod species are compared. Lectotypification of S. latifolia Linnaeus and the current custom of tracing European Solidago cultivars to American indigenous ancestry are discussed. Solidago aestivalis Bicknell replaces S. rugosa var. sphagnophila Graves. Endangerment prospects of S. latissimifolia are presented.
23312414|Hydrolea, a genus of purple- and white-flowered semi-aquatic herbs and shrubs, was last revised in 1913. After examination of available herbarium specimens, SEM of seed coat morphology, and fieldwork in Mexico, Venezuela and Ecuador, a monograph of Hydrolea is presented. In this treatment, two sections for the genus are maintained. Eleven species are recognized, with one species having three varieties.
23312407|Previously undescribed variation in the floral morphology of Podostemum ceratophyllum Michx. is reported. The numbers of tepals and anthers per flower are shown to differ widely among five selected populations in the northeastern United States. Per flower variation in tepal number ranges from one to seven, and of anthers from two (typical) to seven. Genetic rather than environmental factors are postulated to be responsible for this variation. Vegetative reproduction and the autogamous breeding system may be important factors in maintaining floral polymorphism.
23312435|Triglochin maritimum L. is a circumboreal aggregate species complex comprised of a number of different cytotypes. Numerical analyses of morphological variation in plants from eastern and central North America and Europe indicate that two species, T. maritimum and T. gaspense Lieth & Lve, can be recognized. Triglochin maritimum is a polymorphic species, of wide distribution that is characterized by densely flowered racemes, erect leaves that are shorter than the scape, and by its long stigmatic papillae. Triglochin gaspense, restricted to coastal marshes of the Maritime Provinces and the State of Maine, is distinguished by its lax racemes, arcuate leaves that are longer than the scape and its short stigmatic papillae. Differences in habitat preference lend further support to this classification.
23312431|The origin, subsequent migratory history and present-day distribution of Euphrasia stricta J. P. Wolff ex J. F. Lehm. is presented along with its taxonomic description. Introduced into eastern Maine during the 18th or 19th centuries, its range has expanded westward to southcentral Ontario and northward to the Gasp Peninsula of Qubec. In North America, the species is readily characterized by its erect, cuneate, narrowly ovate to ovate-lanceolate glabrous leaves and bracts possessing long aristate teeth.
23312434|Seven varieties of Senecio streptanthifolius Greene are recognized based on morphological characters, flavonoids and chromosome numbers. Four new combinations are made and two new varieties described. The results of a cluster analysis incorporating morphological and flavonoid characters are compared with those from one using only morphological characters. The addition of flavonoid characters permits a better definition of taxa in most cases.
23312430|Pilea howardiana is described and illustrated from Parc National Pic Macaya in the Massif de la Hotte of Haiti. The species is compared to its presumed closest relative, P. formonensis, from which it differs primarily in its smaller size and herbaceous (vs. suffrutescent) habit, gray-green (vs. tan) older stems, shoots that are more densely pubescent, leaves with flat to slightly adaxially impressed (vs. strongly impressed) veins, and stipules lacking a prolonged chartaceous apex. Both species are known only from the Morne Formon region, an area of exceptional endemism.
23312432|Sympatric populations of Chimaphila maculata and C. umbellata exhibit sequential flowering at a study site in Massachusetts. Each shows a positively skewed flowering curve typical of species with a synchronous onset of flowering. Although Bombus bimaculatus, B. perplexus, and B. vagans visit both species of Chimaphila, differences in pollinator preference may prevent interspecific pollen transfer during a short overlap in flowering time. These differences in phenology and pollinators are sufficient to prevent interbreeding, as experimental hybridizations show that the two species are fully interfertile.
23312433|Evaluation of systematic relationships in Arnica subgenus Arnica show that the complex consists of seven species. No new taxa have been proposed; however, names of several previously recognized taxa are treated as synonyms. Arnica augustifolia, A. frigida, and A. lonchophylla, each consisting of two subspecies, are extremely polymorphic and variable in chromosome number. Arnica louiseana, A. rydbergii, A. fulgens and A. sororia are morphologically distinct. A taxonomic revision of the subgenus includes descriptions, keys, synonymies, distribution maps, and a discussion of phylogenetic relationships.
23312398|Potamogeton lateralis is believed to be one of the rarer pondweeds of North America. Evidence is provided indicating that P. lateralis is in fact described from two disparate elements, P. vaseyi and P. pusillus. The morphological characters of P. lateralis fit well within the range of these two species.
23312400|Ranunculus spitzbergensis (Nath.) Hada, the hybrid between R. lapponicus L. and R. pallasii Schlecht., is reported for the first time from North America. Four sites in Quebec and one in central District of Keewatin are recorded. Habitats are described, and the characters by which the hybrid may be discerned from the parents are presented. Synonymy is given and the two parents are placed in the same subgenus, Coptidium.
23312399|Four hundred fifty specific and subspecific taxa of vascular plants are known from the Gateway National Recreation Area. These taxa are included in 80 families. The largest families are the Compositae (66 species) and Gramineae (66 species). One hundred sixty-two plants (36 percent) are exotics. Families with large numbers of exotic species are the Cruciferae (71 percent), Leguminosae (64 percent), and Caryophyllaceae (62.5 percent).
23312397|Papaver californicum, the only annual species of the genus Papaver native to North America is described and mapped. Because of the annual habit, color of filaments and valvate capsules it is placed in a section of its own, sect. Californicum Kadereit, which is described here. The species is suggested to have differentiated from the same stock as the perennial arctic-alpine sect. Meconella.
23312401|Vernonia Schreber subsect. Chamaedrys Cabrera consists of sixteen species of woody or suffrutescent perennials from southern South America. The inflorescence is either corymbose-paniculate or thrysoid-paniculate with numerous small- to medium-sized heads containing 430 florets. The delimitation of various infrageneric groups in Vernonia, as a result of a taxonomic study of Vernonia subsect. Chamaedrys, is presented. Species excluded from subsect. Chamaedrys are transferred to other subgeneric groups. Chemosystematic, palynological and cytological data utilized in the development of a taxonomic revision of Vernonia Schreber subsection Vernonia Cabrera are presented along with the results of hybridization experiments. A key to the series, subseries and species of Vernonia subsect. Chamaedrys is given along with descriptions, geographic distributions and ecological information.
23312396|A population of Panax quinquefolium was decimated by ginseng diggers in 1979, although most components of the climax forest community remained unaltered. After five years, 79% of the population size had been restored of which 25% were flowering plants; from these, 47 fruits matured. By 1985, 39% of the population consisted of flowering plants. The most logical assumption is that a majority of the new population originated from an in situ seed bank holding sufficient viable seeds to re-establish a large portion of the population until plants of the "new population" had become reproductive. Seeds of this herbaceous perennial apparently remained dormant and viable in the soil for at least five years, thus providing an adaptive mechanism for population restoration following major disruption and perhaps also adverse seasonal environmental conditions.
23312709|Spiranthes from isolated wetlands in Santa Cruz and adjacent Cochise Counties, Arizona, which in the past have been cited as S. graminea Lindl., differ from that species in several floral and vegetative characters and in chromosome number; they are readily separated from it by their few-septate trichomes. The more northern S. diluvialis Sheviak is larger-flowered with more ringent flowers and different flower and sepal orientation. The morphological and cytological features of the Arizona plants indicate that they represent a distinct species, described here as S. delitescens Sheviak. The cytology of this species suggests an origin through hybridization and amphiploidy, but the parental species are not identified.
23312711|Observations of mature Norway spruce, Picea abies (L.) Karst., that developed numerous bisporangiate strobili with proliferation were documented over a period of nine years. Most abnormal strobili had male characteristics at the proximal ends, female characteristics above, and vegetative proliferation at the distal ends. The degree of male, female, and vegetative characteristics varied among the hundreds of bisporangiate strobili observed, and there were many transitional stages. They appeared on one tree during eight spring-flushing seasons, on another during two seasons, and on five trees in the season following two environmental stresses: an insect infestation and a dry period which occurred when primordia were differentiating on developing embryonic shoots within buds.
23312710|Origin of the present vegetation of Berkshire County, Massachusetts, is discussed, with emphasis on glaciation, refugia of floristic elements during glaciation, migration patterns of taxa, and the effect these factors may have had on the present composition of the flora. The vegetation can be divided into five affinity groups: Eastern Deciduous Forest Region including a Southern and Midwestern sub-group, Alleghanian (Glaciated northeast and Appalachian Mountains), Boreal, Coastal Plain and Alien. Many taxa in the county are at or near their northern, southern, or eastern range limits. Selected state-listed rare taxa and common species are used to illustrate possible patterns of migration and limitations of distribution.
23312712|Chromosome numbers were determined from somatic material for 371 individuals representing 25 species of Antennaria from western and arctic North America. Most of the chromosome counts presented confirm previous reports for the respective taxa. Chromosome numbers are reported for specimens of A. breitungii (2n = 56), A. ellyae (2n = 28), A. incarnata (2n = 56) and A. pedunculata (2n = 56) collected from their respective type localities. Chromosome numbers are also reported for A. pulcherrima (2n = 56) and A. rosea (2n = 70) collected from their most northwestern stations in North America.
23312713|Recent collections from Newfoundland have added the following vascular plant species to the native flora of the Island: Brasenia schreberi, Carex tonsa, Dactylorhiza, Isoetes acadiensis, Lysimachia thyrsiflora, Myriophyllum farwellii, Potamogeton foliosus var. foliosus, Prenanthes racemosa, Sagittaria latifolia, Viola lanceolata, and V.  sublanceolata. Other novelties, including Aster ciliolatus, Carex arcta, Eleocharis kamtschatica, Goodyera oblongifolia, Juncus subcaudatus, and Ranunculus lapponicus are based on revisions of herbarium material. Significant changes to the known distribution of Potamogeton spirillus and Utricularia purpurea are also discussed. Additions based on published literature reports are also compiled for Acorus americanus, Atriplex franktonii, A. praecox, A. subspicata, Carex cumulata, C. saxilittoralis, Euphrasia salisburgensis, Juncus ambiguus, Listera  veltmanii, Potentilla bipinnatifida, Potamogeton strictifolius, Puccinellia ambigua and Sagina nodosa ssp. nodosa.
23313115|Two additions to the native state flora were encountered in the Adirondack Mountains of northeastern New York: Gnaphalium sylvaticum and Empetrum eamesii spp. atropurpureum. Both taxa are recommended for state endangered species status.
23313114|A Dream of the Woods is a poem thought to be attributable to Merritt Lyndon Fernald. This poem was recently discovered in the University of Maine Archives. A bibliographic search, queries to students of Fernald, and writing samples were employed to verify the poem's authenticity. A possible scenario of why the poem might have been written and why it went undiscovered is offered.
23313116|Observations on the longevity of Goodyera pubescens evergreen leaves are reported, as are continuing observations of the ecology of Triphora trianthophora.
23313118|The vascular flora of the wetland and graminoid plant communities at Gavin Bog and Prairie Nature Preserve in Lake County, Illinois, is described. A total of 246 vascular plant species and three hybrids was found in four broad community classes: bog, marsh, sedge meadow, and prairie. Three bog communities, low-shrub zone, tall-shrub zone, and forested-bog zone, were recognized. The prairie primarily includes wet prairie and mesic prairie. Fifteen threatened or endangered plant species for Illinois were recorded from the nature preserve including two, Carex brunnescens and Vaccinium oxycoccos, not accurately reported from Illinois before this study. Gavin Bog is an oligotrophic acid peatland in an advanced developmental stage. Although the two major plant families characteristic of acid peatlands in the Great Lakes region, Cyperaceae and Ericaceae, are also the best-represented families at Gavin Bog, little compositional similarity exists between Gavin Bog and marsh and other bog/marsh communities in Lake County, Illinois. A total of 5.7% of the vascular flora at Gavin Bog and Prairie Nature Preserve is alien to North America. One exotic species, glossy buckthorn (Rhamnus frangula), currently dominates the tall-shrub zone in the bog, occurs throughout the forested zone, and is threatening the low-shrub zone. The presence of this species has probably resulted in ecological shifts favoring shade-tolerant species throughout the bog. Ecological consequences of various management options are considered.
23313117|Aster anticostensis is endemic to the Baie des Chaleurs (Gasp), Anticosti Island, and the Saint John and Aroostook River basins (QuebecNew BrunswickMaine). It was long confused with A. novi-belgii. It is found in the geolittoral zone along fast-flowing rivers. Eight sites are known, five of which were rediscovered in 1988. The species is rare throughout its range, but it has a more precarious status (endangered) in New Brunswick and Maine, where the taxon is reported here for the first time. Disturbances of the river banks as a result of human activity and regulation of water flow due to dam construction are the main factors threatening survival of this plant.
23313119|The floras and vegetation of marshes in three large Connecticut River oxbows of differing ages in western Massachusetts were studied and compared in 1974 and again in 1984. Marshes at Hatfield in the most recently formed of the three oxbows occur in zones that parallel much of the old river bank. Marshes in Ned's Ditch, Northampton, an oxbow segment that was cut off from the river around 710 yr. B.P., occur within nine scattered ponds surrounded by swamp forest. Marshes at Whately in the oldest oxbow are confined to the vicinity of a single pond. In all three oxbows, a high marsh is dominated by Onoclea sensibilis and a low marsh by Lemna minor and Nuphar variegatum. Zones of emergent mid marsh vegetation are distinctive at each oxbow. Marshes at the two younger, regularly flooded oxbows share numerous species with the herb strata of adjacent swamp forests and remained relatively unchanged throughout the study period except for an increase in woody seedlings at the Hatfield high marsh. The Whately marshes share few species with adjacent forest; species richness in high and emergent zones of the Whately marshes declined sharply over the decade.
23313120|In 1989, Oxalis violacea and Verbena simplex were rediscovered at Mt. Tom, Holyoke, Hampden Co., Massachusetts, where they were last recorded in 1880. Oxalis violacea is listed as Threatened and Verbena simplex as Endangered by the state of Massachusetts.
23312564|Thomas F. Lucy's original herbarium of "The Upper Susquehanna Flora," fully mounted and labeled for the Elmira Academy of Sciences in the 1890's, has been found at Elmira College. Although Index Herbariorum indicates that BUF contains the largest deposit of the collections of T. F. Lucy, these specimens are Lucy's unmounted duplicates. T. F. Lucy did not die in Elmira, as earlier reported, but had moved to Buffalo and died there in 1906. Based on Lucy's collection, a working herbarium has been established in Carnegie Science Hall at Elmira College. Current research is focusing on updating Lucy's obsolete nomenclature, mapping and localities and collection sites, and identifying the duplicate specimens from BUF.
23312568|Analysis of the plants in the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve shows that large numbers of them are on one or more of the rare plant lists. Twenty-seven families and 106 species known from in or near the Preserve are either endangered, threatened and/or commercially exploited. Species endangered in some way constitute 22.2% of those known from the Preserve. This large number of endangered plants within the Preserve heavily reflects the abundant tropical epiphytic element within the temperate plant communities. Comparisons are made with other southern Florida areas to show the uniqueness of the Preserve flora.
23312567|The effects of prescribed burning experiments on two rare coastal heathland species are described. Fire killed adult Corema conradii Torr., but resulted in abundant seedling regeneration. Ants may be important vectors in the dispersal of Corema fruits. Following a spring burn, both cover and flowering of Helianthemum dumosum (Bickn.) Fern. increased. Seedlings of this species also were more common, especially where cover of Cladonia lichens was reduced. Occasional fire may be necessary to maintain healthy, reproductive populations of these species.
23312565|Schiedeella schlechteriana Szlachetko & Sheviak is described as new. It is distinguished by a lip with narrowly rhombic hypochile and abruptly expanded epichile, dendritically proliferated nerves, and apically-directed auricles. It is compared with related species, one of which, S. valerioi (Ames & Schweinf.) Szlachetko & Sheviak, is formally transferred from Spiranthes.
23312566|A disjunctive range extension of the rare Aster depauperatus (Porter) Fern. is reported for the first time from several diabase glades in north central North Carolina. The species was previously known only from serpentine soils and the North Carolina populations hence represent an extension in both range and habitat.
23312666|Anthers and corollas from fresh flowers of 27 taxa of Solanaceae were separately stored in jars and then smelled. The anthers nearly always produced scents, but the corollas often did not, and when present, the corolla scents were different from those of the anthers. We hypothesize that the anther scents are related to bee pollination and are a basal, conservative feature of the Solanaceae, while the corolla scents represent specializations to attract other pollinators.
23312670|Distribution data are updated for 14 Poaceae taxa considered rare in Vermont 20 years ago. Two of the natives studied, Glyceria acutiflora and Sporobolus asper, are still rare, have lost historical populations, and face potential human alteration of their habitats. They are recommended for Endangered species status in Vermont. Six native species have expanded their range north. Seven native species are now weedy in disturbed habitats. Railroads and roadsides provide habitat and a means of dispersal for the weedy species. Aristida basiramea and Diplachne acuminata are novelties in the Vermont flora.
23312668|We sampled Sanguinaria canadensis L. (bloodroot) rhizomes from 100 eastern U.S. populations to assess variation in the alkaloid sanguinarine. Sanguinarine content varied from 0.6% to 6.3% of rhizome dry weight (mean 2.7%). This variation correlates with latitude, longitude, slope, clay content, litter depth, rhizome size, and fruit size. A regression with latitude, pH, and percent humic matter accounted for 58% of the alkaloid variation among populations. Alkaloid concentrations also vary seasonally. Highest alkaloid levels occurred during flowering and fruiting stages.
23312665|A rare color-form of Cypripedium montanum Dougl. ex Lindl., characterized by clear green sepals and petals and unmarked lip and staminode, is described as forma praetertinctum Sheviak.
23312671|Floristic studies of Seashore State Park, A National Landmark and region of floristic interest for more than a century, are reviewed. The present flora consists of 558 species in 306 genera in 107 families, including several Alleghenian species which reach their southern limit in the park. Changes in habitat have resulted in the loss of numerous species.
23312669|Principal component and cluster analyses, in addition to individual achene micromorphological characters, divide the Carex nigromarginata complex into two groups: achenes of C. nigromarginata, C. floridana and C. peckii have cell central bodies with concave sides while the remaining three taxa have cell central bodies with convex sides. This evidence supports the reduction of C. artitecta and C. physorhyncha to varieties of C. emmonsii (as C. emmonsii var. muhlenbergii, C. emmonsii var. australis and C. emmonsii var. emmonsii, respectively). The six taxa can only be distinguished by significant differences between the achene characters; achene micromorphological data are most useful in dividing the complex into sets of taxa.
23313731|The herbaceous vegetation was studied at one-, three-, and twelve-year intervals following clearing of a pine plantation at the Sand Prairie-Scrub Oak Nature Preserve, Mason County, Illinois. The annual species Setaria faberi (giant foxtail), Bidens bipinnata (Spanish needles), and Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass) dominated the first year. The native perennial grass Dichanthelium villosissimum (hairy panic grass) along with the exotic species Mollugo verticillata (carpetweed) were prominent the third year while Diodia teres (buttonweed) and Eragrostis trichodes (sand love grass) dominated the 12th year. Many native species commonly associated with dry sand prairies were present by the 12th year, but some exotic and native weedy species were still present.
23313734|Species of the alga Vaucheria occur throughout the world growing in and on the surface of marine, brackish, and freshwater sediments. This resilient genus has the ability to survive extreme environmental stresses by depositing hardy, dormant "seed banks" of propagules, mostly commonly oospheres, into the sediments. The present study investigates the effect of extended periods of anoxia on the survival of Vaucheria propagules. Sediment samples from a flooded riparian zone in Ashford, Connecticut, a habitat where multiple species of Vaucheria have been known to grow, were placed in anoxic Bio-Bag chambers for 15 months. Our results demonstrate that three species, V. aversa, V. uncinata, and V. undulata, are able to survive at least five months of anoxia, with V. aversa and V. uncinata surviving one year lacking O 2 .
23313730|Western New York has experienced extensive agricultural land abandonment since the early 1900s. The objectives of this study were to (1) sample plots representing a chronosequence to describe the stages of old-field succession and (2) follow these plots for six years to track year-to-year variation in species composition. Dominant species in the early stages (30 years following abandonment) of succession were Solidago spp. (41% cover) and Rhamnus cathartica (20%). By mid-succession (50 years following abandonment), Rhamnus cathartica (39%) and Fraxinus americana (39%) became more important. Dominant late successional (70 years following abandonment) species included Fagus grandifolia (34%), Ostrya virginiana (24%), and Prunus serotina (15%). Every iteration of sampling included unique species, indicating that new species were continually entering the site, but were not successfully establishing. This pattern mirrors the initial floristic composition model of oldfield succession. However, after several years of canopy closure, the stands appeared to enter an understory-reinitiation stage, which allowed new species to establish and form a mature forest of species that were absent from the early and mid-succession area.
23313729|Champlain beachgrass (Ammophila champlainensis) was described by Seymour in 1966 as endemic to the shores of Lake Champlain in Vermont and New York. Some later authors have recognized it while others have not, or they have treated it at a different rank. In order to resolve the issue of the recognition and appropriate rank, nine characters, including those suggested by previous authors as important to distinguish this taxon, were measured in 457 specimens from throughout the northeastern North American range of Ammophila. A reduced data set of 281 specimens and seven characters was studied using: (1) analysis of variance to determine optimal characters for differentiating geographical groups; (2) scatter plot analysis of optimal characters; (3) principal component analysis to investigate the major trends in pattern of variation without character weighting; (4) discriminant analysis to determine the extent of differentiation using a weighted formula; and (5) linear regression to reveal trends in variation related to size of associated water bodies. The analyses failed to clearly separate the plants from Lake Champlain from other Ammophila populations. However, the Lake Champlain plants were the most discrete of nine natural geographic groups, followed by plants from Lac Saint-Jean, and then plants from the Atlantic coast. None of the geographic groups was sufficiently different to justify recognition of distinct taxa due to the extensive overlap in measurements of characters. Populations adjacent to smaller water bodies, where dunes tend to be smaller and less active, tend to have smaller plants with smaller parts. Plants from Lake Champlain, including those described and identified as A. champlainensis, and all other northeastern populations of Ammophila, are best treated as the single species A. breviligulata.
23313732|Sayres Pond in Champaign County, Ohio, is a characteristic prairie fen remnant. The site harbors an assemblage of wetland plants that are indicative of their fen habitat and at the same time uncommon in west-central Ohio. Although not as species-rich as some larger remnant fens in the region, floristic diversity at Sayres Pond is quite high considering its small area (approximately 1.6 ha surveyed). A total of 102 species in 40 families and 80 genera were documented from Sayres Pond during this study. The flora has a distinct northern component but shows affinities to wet prairies and marshes of the Midwest and Southeast. Six state-listed rare plant species have been reported from the site since 1970, although only three were observed during this study. Comparison to a previous study indicates that over a 27-year period woody species encroached considerably into the fen meadow. Sixty-five of the 120 species (54%) previously reported from the site were not found during this study. The reasons for this loss are not fully understood, but the transition from open meadow vegetation to closed-canopy shrub carr has likely been a major factor in species loss at Sayres Pond.
23313733|During studies of the Campanulaceae for the Flora of Veracruz (Mexico), we found three new records for the state. The resurrection of Centropogon oaxacanus is proposed, and C. wilburii is considered as a heterotypic synonym. Both names were previously known only from the type localities in Oaxaca. Lobelia caeciliae was previously known only from the holotype, which was collected in Chiapas. Lobelia tatea reaches its northernmost limit in the submontane forests of Veracruz. For each taxon, the distinguishing characters and similar species are discussed.
23314165|Several nomenclatural changes have taken place in Platanthera within the past decade, including the recircumscription of species and newly described segregate taxa. Collections in herbaria should be updated to reflect these changes, however Platanthera herbarium specimens are difficult to identify because diagnostic qualitative and quantitative characters present in the field are not always available in dried material. Such a problem is found in P. hyperborea s. lat. from continental North America, which is now known to comprise the diploid P. aquilonis and the putative allotetraploid P. huronensis. Platanthera aquilonis and P. dilatata are commonly regarded as progenitors of P. huronensis. Platanthera hyperborea s. str. is not known to occur in continental North America. I undertook a study to determine if herbarium specimens of P. hyperborea s. lat. and the closely related P. dilatata representing British Columbia populations could be annotated to reflect the current taxonomic treatment. I placed P. hyperborea s. lat. and P. dilatata herbarium specimens into groups using keys and descriptions provided in recent treatments. Principal components analysis (PCA) and ANOVAs were used to determine if groups existed in the data set. The univariate statistics supported the presence of three groups in the data set and individuals of known ploidy helped to confirm that phenetic clusters on the PCA scatterplot corresponded to the appropriate species. Using techniques outlined in this paper, Platanthera herbarium specimens can be annotated to reflect current taxonomic treatments.
23314164|Amelanchier alnifolia var. pumila (Smooth Saskatoon, Dwarf Serviceberry) is reported as new to Canada from the Crowsnest Pass and Castle Mountain regions of the Rocky Mountains of southwestern Alberta. It occurs in open prairie habitat in cool montane parklands. Completely glabrous with prominently toothed leaves, and with a discrete distribution including the Rocky Mountains and adjacent plains, A. alnifolia var. pumila is a distinctive taxon worthy of recognition. At the Canadian sites it occurs with A. alnifolia var. alnifolia and a range of putative hybrids. The Canadian collections are described, and compare well with the type material. A key to the Amelanchier taxa of Alberta and British Columbia is included.
23314163|Little is known about the single reported population of Dirca mexicana. I monitored air temperature from mid-2005 through mid-2007, analyzed pH of soil, used the global positioning system (GPS) to define geographical boundaries of the population, explored for additional populations, and studied aspects of sexual and asexual reproduction in situ and among seedlings in greenhouses. Temperature ranged from -2 to 35.5C, and weekly means were 7.4 to 18.1C. Soil pH was 6.3. No other populations were found at sites nearby with similar slopes and aspects, but a second distinct cluster of plants was found 221 m from the portion of the known population described previously. Numerous individuals of Catasticta nimbice nimbice, a butterfly in the family Pieridae, visited flowers in mid-March, 2007. Drupes were observed in May four of five years, and drupe count per plant was 3 to 131 among individuals with basal trunk diameters of 10 to 46 mm in 2007. Genetic analysis of 45 individuals revealed no putative clones. Drupes of D. mexicana were longer and wider than those of the other two species in the genus, while size of seeds was intermediate. Seedlings isolated from pollinators in a greenhouse flowered for the first time and formed viable seeds during their fourth spring of development, demonstrating the capacity of D. mexicana to self-pollinate or to form seeds via apomixis. These observations improve our understanding of the habitat and reproductive biology of this endemic species.
23314166|Rapid assessment surveys of fouling seaweed populations were conducted at 67 sites between Downeast Maine and Staten Island, New York during August of 2000, 2003, and 2005, plus JulyAugust of 2007. A total of 126 taxa were recorded, including 29 Chlorophyceae, 31 Phaeophyceae, 55 Rhodophyceae, four Cyanophyceae, one Xanthophyceae, and six macroscopic colonial diatoms (Bacillariophyceae). Several species were fast-growing nuisance organisms (e.g., Ulva spp.), while seven were introduced taxa. Four introduced species originated from Asia either directly or secondarily (Codium fragile subsp. fragile, Grateloupia turuturu, Neosiphonia harveyi, and Bonnemaisonia hamifera), two were from Europe (Lomentaria clavellosa and L. orcadensis), and one from the North Pacific (Melanosiphon intestinalis). Neosiphonia harveyi was the most widely distributed introduced taxon, occurring at 48 sites (71.6%), while L. clavellosa and L. orcadensis were only found at 3 sites (4.5%). Repeated observations (i.e., 2000, 2003, and 2007) at three sites in Massachusetts documented a recent rapid expansion of the invasive red alga G. turuturu into the Gulf of Maine through the Cape Cod Canal. The numbers of taxa per site were highest between Maine and Massachusetts (2842 taxa) and lowest (113 taxa) in southern New England and New York, presumably because of increased loading of various pollutants within Long Island Sound and near New York City. The highest mean ( SD) number of taxa per state was recorded in New Hampshire (28.8  8.0) and the lowest in Rhode Island (7.1  3.6). The green and red algae exhibited peak numbers in New Hampshire (i.e. 9.0  3.1 and 11.6  5.1), while brown algae were maximal in New Hampshire (8.2  1.1) and Maine (7.8  3.4) and much lower in Connecticut (1.0  1), Rhode Island (1.1  2.9), and New York (1.2  1.0). Fifty-four species were limited to 13 sites (1.54.7%), while only 7 occurred at > 50% of the sites. The most ubiquitous seaweeds included three opportunistic green algae (U. intestinalis, U. lactuca, and Blidingia minima), two perennial browns (Fucus vesiculosus and Ascophyllum nodosum), and the introduced Asiatic red alga, N. harveyi. Thirty-six taxa were restricted to individual states (31.3%), with Massachusetts exhibiting the highest number of unique taxa (17 or 14.8%) and Connecticut and New York the lowest (one taxon each or 0.9%). Massachusetts also had the highest number of total and mean shared species (86 and 43.3  10.7, respectively), while Connecticut had the opposite pattern (18 total and 15.0  7.5 shared taxa). Cheney's floristic ratio indicated that seaweeds restricted to the north of the Cape Cod Canal formed a cold-water flora, while those limited to the south of the Canal were somewhat less boreal. Most taxa from each state were annuals and exhibited cosmopolitan local distributional patterns, occurring in both open coastal and estuarine sites.
23314156|The vascular flora, natural communities, and natural community system on the Isles of Shoals in New Hampshire and Maine are described based on a combination of historical records dating back to 1614 and a comprehensive survey conducted in 2006. A total of 430 native or naturalized vascular plant taxa from 242 genera and 71 families have been documented on these nine maritime islands. The families best represented in the flora were Asteraceae (58 taxa), Poaceae (49 taxa), and Rosaceae (35 taxa); the largest genera were Carex (9 taxa), Juncus (8 taxa), Persicaria (7 taxa), and Solidago (7 taxa). Forty-two percent of the 430 plant taxa were non-native. Proportions among life forms were 86% herbs, 12% shrubs, and 2% trees. Plant richness for extant taxa totaled 333 and varied from 53 on White Island to 246 on Appledore. Fifteen plant taxa are rare in either New Hampshire or Maine. Fourteen natural communities, two human-disturbed cover types, and one natural community system were described from the nine islands. Eight of the 14 natural communities are extremely rare in New Hampshire; none of the communities are rare in Maine. Appledore, over twice the size of the next largest island, supported all 14 communities and both human-disturbed cover types. Seaveys, the second smallest island, supported just three communities. One natural community system was described, the maritime rocky shore, which characterizes all of the islands in the Isles of Shoals. Although not rare in Maine, this system in New Hampshire only occurs on these islands. Island size was significantly related to vascular plant richness and native plant richness but was somewhat less related to the richness of non-native plants.
23314157|The floristic diversity and vegetation communities of Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow, two peatland complexes of recent origin within the Lake Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge in Coos County, New Hampshire, were investigated. The combined vascular floras of Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow consisted of 178 species, 111 of which occurred in both peatlands. The flora included two state-listed species, Eriophorum angustifolium subsp. angustifolium (endangered) and Listera cordata (threatened). Abundance and frequency data from 617 quadrats along 35 transects were analyzed by two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN) and resulted in the recognition of nine vegetation cover types (CT): Thuja occidentalisAlnus incana CT, the Picea marianaNemopanthus mucronatus CT, the Nemopanthus mucronatusAlnus incana CT, the Rhododendron canadenseNemopanthus mucronatus CT, the Rhododendron canadenseChamaedaphne calyculata CT, the Chamaedaphne calyculataCarex oligosperma CT, the Scheuchzeria palustrisCarex oligosperma CT, the Carex lasiocarpaChamaedaphne calyculata CT, and the Dulichium arundinaceumPotentilla palustris CT. A tenth cover type consisting of aquatic vegetation, the Brasenia shreberiPotamogeton spp. CT, was recognized based on qualitative field observations. Despite the recent formation of these peatland complexes following the construction of the Errol Dam in 1853, the vegetation composition of Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow shares broad similarities with peatlands in New England, the northcentral United States, and adjacent Canada. Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow are best classified as oligotrophic to weakly minerotrophic level peatland complexes occupying broad and shallow outwash plains. Historical records, botanical evidence, and patterns in basin topography suggest that terrestrialization and paludification have been critical processes in the post-settlement development of these two large peatland complexes.
23313716|Based on recent and historical collections dating back to the early 1900s, the seaweed flora in Casco Bay, Maine consists of 206 taxa: 55 Chlorophyta, 70 Phaeophyta, and 81 Rhodophyta. In 1911, Frank Shipley Collins recorded 173 taxa from Casco Bay, while 164 taxa were found during recent sampling since 1994. A comparison of the two time periods shows a 77.7% similarity; some plants have apparently disappeared (or are very rare) and others are newly recorded. Eight newly collected seaweeds represent species that are most common in estuarine and shallow embayments and have southern warm-water affinities (e.g., Hummia onusta, Striaria attenuata, Callithamnion corymbosum, Ceramium cimbricum, Chondria baileyana, Polysiphonia denudata, P. elongata, and Spyridia filamentosa); six others represent introduced taxa, including Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides, Ulonema rhizophorum, Bonnemaisonia hamifera and its "Trailliella intricata" stage, plus Dumontia contorta, Lomentaria clavellosa, and Porphyra yezoensis f. yezoensis. The Asiatic red alga Neosiphonia harveyi, which represents another introduced taxon (i.e., 7th), was reported by Collins during the early 1900s. Comparisons of historical and present-day floras at two sites in Harpswell, Maine showed that the percent similarity values were lower and ranged from 41.5% at Basin Cove to 48.9% at Potts Point. At Basin Cove enhanced water motion and the loss of a tidal dam caused increased and altered species composition, while anthropogenic impacts due to a lobster pound diminished the flora at Potts Point. Historical floristic comparisons of seven other areas (Helgoland, Germany; the North Adriatic Sea; Denmark; Mount Desert Island, Maine; Penikese Island, Massachusetts; southern California; and the Florida Keys) are used to evaluate the stability of Casco Bay's flora and the impact of oil pollution. A comparison of Casco Bay's "composite" flora of 206 taxa with several other Northwest Atlantic sites shows that its species richness is approximately the same as that found within the Great Bay Estuarine System of New Hampshire and Maine (216 taxa), while it exceeds Penobscot Bay in mid-coastal Maine (139 taxa), Passamaquoddy Bay in New Brunswick (159 taxa), and several Northwest Atlantic islands (51145 taxa). However, there are fewer taxa than in Newfoundland (254 taxa), the largest insular habitat within the temperate Northwest Atlantic. Casco Bay's seaweed flora is dominated by annuals (i.e., 117 vs. 86 perennial taxa), reflecting its seasonally dynamic habitats and pronounced temperature fluctuations. Annuals or opportunistic forms also dominate the oil-impacted Fore River/Portland Harbor area.
23314207|The nomenclatural history of Cyperus retrofractus (L.) Torr. is discussed. An authentic Linnaean specimen is reinterpreted as the lectotype for the basionym Scirpus retrofractus L. and arguments are made for the reapplication of this name to a species which, since 1906, has been called Cyperus dipsaciformis Fernald.
23314212|New stations or re-locations of historical stations for 15 species of rare plants have been found along the Connecticut and West Rivers in southeastern Vermont. Platanthera flava and Rhexia virginica are proposed as state threatened species.
23314203|A new species, Ilex blancheana, is described from a high elevation cloud forest along the Rivere Blanche, south of Morne la Visite, Massif de la Selle, southern Haiti. This species is distinguished from other tropical American species of Ilex by the combination of small, conspicuously veined, and entire margined leaves with obtuse to slightly emarginate apices, and fasciculate inflorescences of three to nine, four-merous flowers, each with an ovoid and very prominent stigma. The hardwood communities of the ravines and the steep, more or less north-facing slopes at higher elevations in the vicinity of Morne La Visite support a diverse and highly endemic flora, which is known mainly through the field work of Erik L. Ekman.
23314211|Vaccinium sempervirens Rayner and Henderson is assigned to Vaccinium sect. Herpothamnus.
23314209|In Gros Morne National Park, Newfoundland, 43 vascular plant taxa have been identified as significantly rare; they are examined in subgroups of species sharing similar special habitats. These divisions correspond to a general classification of land regions and biophysiographic areas characterizing the Park. Aspects of range pattern, floristic affinity, ecology and community composition of the populations are discussed within each subgroup. Information from sample populations is treated by principal coordinate ordination to illustrate relationships between rare plant communities and abiotic variables.
23314206|The pollination biology of Cypripedium acaule, the pink lady's slipper, was studied by hand-pollinating flowers in the field and by examining pollination and fertilization patterns in naturally occurring populations near Amherst, Massachusetts. Fruit formation in C. acaule appears to be limited by pollinators rather than by other resources. Pollination intensity appears to be independent of floral density.
23314201|The first authentic record in Qubec of Carex oligocarpa is reported in the Ottawa Valley. This discovery, in the Eardley Escarpment, represents a significant outlying northerly station for this rare sedge and is only the seventh known location in Canada. Aspects of the site and forest community are described. The phytogeographic importance of the new record is examined in the context of other unique and rare elements of the Outaouais flora.
23314210|Four species of the genus Cyperus are described, illustrated, and compared to their nearest relatives. These are: C. matudae and C. breedlovei (Subgenus Protocyperus) from the Pacific slope of Chiapas, Mexico; and C. wilburii and C. svensonii (Subgenus Cyperus) from the lowlands of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and from the uplands of Chiapas, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, respectively.
23314208|Thirteen species and two subspecies are recognized in Polygonum section Polygonum in Canada. Four achene types are recognized in the section: smooth, roughened, papillose and striate-papillose. Descriptions, a discussion of comparative features, distributions, chromosome numbers and a key to the species are presented. Two new taxa are described: P. caurianum ssp. hudsonianum and P. franktonii.
23314205|Ten previously unrecorded species of vascular plants are listed for Kent Island, New Brunswick.
23312376|Preliminary to development of a management plan for Candlewood Lake (Fairfield and Litchfield Counties, CT), phytoplankton populations were recorded at several sites from April, 1983 through January, 1984. Vertical phytoplankton profiles were identified and counted to derive seasonal succession patterns and population concentrations. Vertical profiles of nitrate, phosphorus, chlorophyll a, phaeophytin a, temperature, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, and light were also recorded at the sampling sites. Distributions of phytoplankton were seasonal; approximately 104 cells/ml occurred in the epilimnion during summer stratification. The lake was dominated (89%) by blue-green algae (Oscillatoriaceae and Nostocaceae). Diatoms and green algae were important during spring and winter, respectively. Horizontal phytoplankton distributions throughout the lake were similar and correlated well with chlorophyll a concentrations. Nitrate concentrations were generally low (< 0.3 mg NO3/1) to non-detectable during the summer. Total phosphorus was found to be high, averaging 35 g/1 on the surface. Candlewood Lake is thus in an early eutrophic state.
23312380|The nomenclatural application of the name Hedyotis rosea Rafinesque (1817) is discussed. It is concluded that the name applies to the species also known as Houstonia pygmaea C. H. & M. T. Muller (1936). The new combination, Houstonia rosea (Rafinesque) Terrell, is proposed and a neotype is designated.
23312375|The dispersion pattern of aerial shoots of the common marsh reed, Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud., was determined by density counts from a marsh population in southeastern Massachusetts using quadrat methods. Statistical analyses of 0.0625 m2 quadrat data indicated a random dispersion pattern. An aggregated dispersion pattern is indicated by analyses of 0.25 m2 quadrat data. The aggregated dispersion pattern appears to be a reproductive pattern based on the mode of population development of P. australis in which extensive vegetative propagation forms aggregations of aerial shoots. In addition, the number of shoots per aggregate exhibited a logarithmic distribution that conforms to the concept of a viable unit.
23312385|Recent collections of four weedy species of angiosperms native to Eurasia are reported from Hampshire County, Massachusetts. Elsholtzia ciliata and Lepidium perfoliatum are reported for the first time from western Massachusetts. Three collections of Poa bulbosa from the Amherst area mark the first records of this species from New England. Apera (Agrostis) interrupta is reported for the firt time from the eastern seaboard of the United States.
23312384|New stations for Platanthera flava (L.) Lindl. and Triphora trianthophora (Sw.) Rydb. were discovered through field studies in New Hampshire and Maine. A short discussion of habits and ecology is also included.
23312373|The hybrid between Polystichum acrostichoides and P. braunii is common but overlooked in Vermont. Based on a qualitative analysis, the hybrid is structurally intermediate for most traits, but character states are not predominantly medial or nearer to those of tetraploid P. braunii. Indusia of the hybrid are much larger than those of either progenitor, suggesting a summation of development programs for indusial development. Stomates of the triploid hybrids are intermediate and nearer to those of P. braunii in size, but those of diploid P. acrostichoides are unexpectedly larger than those of tetraploid P. braunii. Chromosome counts confirm that the hybrid is commonly triploid, and that non-homologous pairing is high, as reported for other Polystichum hybrids (mean number of bivalents is 21.7). The hybrid is described and named as P.  potteri.
23312379|The grass genus Aristida in the southeastern United States is reviewed. Twenty species are present in the region, all indigenous to the area. New combinations proposed are Aristida purpurescens Poir. var. tenuispica (Hitchc.) Allred and var. virgata (Trin.) Allred.
23312374|Plantago maritima L. and Carex mackenziei Krecz., two seacoast salt marsh species rare at inland stations, are reported from the lower Carrot River valley of east-central Saskatchewan, Canada as new to the flora of the province. Taxonomic considerations for Plantago maritima and phytogeographical observations and comments for both species are included.
23312378|The sweet bay magnolia (Magnolia virginiana L.) from Gloucester, Massachusetts, was almost eliminated by flower collectors in the early 20th century from its one locality in New England. The population appears to have recovered since that time and now consists of approximately 129 multi-stemmed plants which have a total of 1800 stems. Approximately 33% of the plants produced fruits in 1984. Plants have shown a positive growth in height and number of stems in the two-year period, 19821984. No naturally occurring seedlings were evident. The population appears to be persisting through the vegetative vigor of existing plants, some of which may be long-lived. Seedlings grown from seed collected in the Gloucester stand in 1980 and transplanted back into the area in 1982 showed excellent survival (48%) and moderate growth as of 1984.
23312381|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the surfaces of achenes of Carex section Folliculatae and the allied section Collinsiae for systematic relationships. Epidermal patterns were distinctive and consistent for each taxon. Variation of epidermal cells was most evident with respect to size of cell, the number, thickness, and sinuosity of anticlinal walls per cell, and shape of the apex of silica bodies present in two of the taxa. Recognition of Carex lonchocarpa is supported.
23312377|The African Sisymbrium turczaninowii, Lepidium africanum, and L. schinzii and the South American L. bonariense are reported for the first time for North America. The Eurasian S. loeselii and the North American L. austrinum, L. lasiocarpum, and L. oblongum are new to the southeastern United States. All eight species were collected from waste grounds around wool-combing mills in South Carolina. A key to the eastern North American species of Lepidium is given.
23313936|Fruits, seeds and leaves of 48 gymnosperm and angiosperm taxa are reported from 283070 and 268030 year-old riverine sediments located just north of New Haven, Connecticut. Most of the fossils are identified to species, providing refinement of previously available pollen data; several species are not commonly found in Holocene pollen floras.
23313938|Chromosome numbers determined from 49 populations of Chrysopsis mariana (L.) Ell. ranged from diploid to octoploid: 2n = 8, 2n = 16, 2n = 24, 2n = 32 respectively. Seedlings from one 6x population had 59 small supernumerary chromosomes. These counts plus 8 previously reported counts indicate an allopatric distribution pattern of cytotypes throughout the range of the species. All cytotypes were found in Florida, whereas only hexaploids occurred in other parts of the range. Diploids occurred in two disjunct areas of Florida. Tetraploids and octoploids were found only in the northeastern portion of the Florida peninsula.
23313937|In eastern Maine the brightly colored flowers of Primula laurentiana Fern. produce no nectar; their faint but pleasant scent is strongest at the center of the corolla limb in a UV-reflecting, yellow ring called the "bird's eye." During our observations, six species of insects visited the flowers, the most important being the syrphid Helophilus groenlandicus (O. Fabricus) (Syrphidae). Since P. laurentiana is self-compatible, long-homostylous, and its stigmas are receptive when the introrse anthers dehisce, pollen-gathering by insects must lead to some self-pollination. Pollen adhering to pollinators' heads may effect cross-pollination during their flower-constant forays. This breeding system of facultative autogamy is concordant with the relatively low pollen-ovule ratio of about 130 to 1.
23313939|Plants referred in the past to Platanthera leucophaea (Nutt.) Lindl. have been found to comprise two species differing in pollination mechanisms, morphology, and geographic distribution. The more eastern species, P. leucophaea, is lectotypified, and the more western species is formally described as P. praeclara. Relationships of the species are discussed.
23313019|Field work and morphological studies on section Laxiflorae Kunth of the genus Carex L. revealed morphological variation in C. purpurifera Mack. is correlated with geographical distribution. Carex purpurifera appears to consist of two taxa, one found on soils derived from limestone in the western part of the range and the other on non-limestone-derived soils in the eastern part of the range. Morphological differences were retained in greenhouse-grown plants. Pollen mother cell counts of the western populations were n = 17, 18, and 19. The eastern populations were n = 14 only, the lowest recorded in section Laxiflorae. These cytological data support the contention that C. purpurifera consists of two distinct taxa and the newer one, C. manhartii Bryson, has been described elsewhere as a species.
23313018|Species composition, phenology, longevity and distribution patterns of New Hampshire seaweed populations from diverse coastal and estuarine habitats are given. Two hundred sixteen taxa were recorded (58 Chlorophyceae, 66 Phaeophyceae and 92 Rhodophyceae), including 8 new state and/or geographical records and the recent introduction of the green alga Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides to the Isles of Shoals. Each major group of seaweeds showed similar phenological patterns, with summer maxima and winter minima. The Rhodophyceae exhibited the greatest dominance by perennials (67.4%), the Phaeophyceae had an intermediate pattern (45.5%) and the green algae exhibited the greatest dominance by annuals (87.2%). Overall, the open coastal sites were dominated by cold temperate species, while warm temperate or "mixed floras" were more conspicuous in estuarine habitats. Varying phenological and longevity patterns were also evident in coastal and estuarine habitats. Most of the species (67%) occurred in both open coastal and estuarine habitats, while 23% were restricted to the open coast and 7% to estuarine habitats. Several unique distributional patterns were also noted, including contrasting patterns between closely related taxa, parasitic species and their respective hosts, and different life history stages of the same species. Several estuarine taxa represent disjunct populations north of Cape Cod, Massachusetts; they may be relicts of an earlier "hypsithermal" or warm period. The autecology of several disjunct taxa is discussed.
23313355|The reproductive biology of Magnolia grandiflora was investigated at three localities in south Louisiana. Over the 34 day flowering period, the flowers of M. grandiflora exhibited changes in sex expression (protogyny), stigmatic receptivity (self- and cross-compatibility to self-incompatibility), UV reflectance (strong reflectance of the stigmas to strong reflectance of the androphore), and pollinator reward (a hexose-dominated stigmatic nectar to pollen). Although beetles were occasional floral visitors and carried pollen, bees (non-native Apis mellifera and indigenous Lasioglossum bruneri) were frequent floral visitors and were the only floral visitors whose behavior showed any correlation with the array of floral changes that occurred over the 34 day flowering period.
23313353|Floodplain forests on eleven rivers in Massachusetts were surveyed to determine the variation in vegetation and soils across a range of hydrologic, physiographic, and climatic conditions. Quantitative vegetation data collected from 124 plots at 43 sites were analyzed using TWINSPAN and DECORANA (DCA), and six community types were identified. The six types were: Type IRiverine island floodplain forests (Acer saccharinumPopulus deltoidesAcer negundoMatteuccia struthiopteris association); Type IIMajor-river floodplain forests (A. saccharinumP. deltoidesLaportea canadensis association); Type IIITransitional floodplain forests (A. saccharinumArisaema dracontium association); Type IVSmall-river floodplain forests (A. saccharinumFraxinus pennsylvanicaQuercus palustris association); Type VAlluvial swamp forests (Acer rubrumA. saccharinumQ. bicolor association); and Type VIAlluvial terrace forests (A. rubrumCarya ovataPrunus serotina association). The most common herbaceous taxa throughout all community associations were M. struthiopteris, L. canadensis, Boehmeria cylindrica, and Onoclea sensibilis. Results of the classification showed variation in floodplain forest vegetation composition among rivers in Massachusetts corresponding to significant differences in soil mottling, soil texture, presence/absence of a surface organic layer, and soil pH.
23313354|Jaltomata lojae (Solanaceae) of southern Ecuador and northern Peru is described. This species is distinguished by the following features: finger hairs borne by the leaves and stems; a white, broadly infundibular to rotate corolla; exserted stigma; a broad nectary disk; and orange fruits. Corollas change from pale green to white at anthesis. Flowers are self-compatible, herkogamous, and sometimes protogynous. Microscopic, densely staining, multicellular glands that may be osmophores are located on the perianth. Berries are eaten by humans.
23313356|Section Scirpinae, as treated herein, forms a cohesive group of dioecious, unispicate sedges with pubescent perigynia, chromosome numbers of n = 31, and similar leaf anatomy, and possesses a high degree of interfertility between subspecies based on hand-pollinations. Taxa in this section are distributed primarily in North America. Taxonomic problems in the group have been related to the lack of a comprehensive monographic treatment, incomplete descriptions, and a lack of an understanding of the patterns of variation in morphological characters across a wide geographic range. Based on evidence from a previous study using morphology, chromosome numbers, leaf anatomy and surface structure, achene and perigynium micromorphology, interbreeding relationships, ecology, and distributions, five taxa are recognized. The section, as treated here, consists of C. scirpoidea, with four subspecies (ssp. scirpoidea, ssp. convoluta, ssp. pseudoscirpoidea, and ssp. stenochlaena), and C. curatorum. Two taxa, C. gigas and C. scabriuscula, have been excluded.
23313408|The endangered Geum radiatum (Rosaceae) and G. peckii are morphologically similar species and may represent a single taxon. Both are alpine species endemic to the Appalachian Mountains of eastern North America. Geum radiatum is known only from mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee and G. peckii from the White Mountains, New Hampshire, and sea-level bogs in Nova Scotia. Since these species are at risk in Canada and the U.S.A., their taxonomic status is important for determining conservation strategies. Taxonomic identity of these species was investigated using molecular genetic techniques. Forty individual plants from throughout the known range of each species were analyzed using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Cluster analysis and analysis of molecular variance clearly differentiate these species. Retention of the present classification as separate taxa is appropriate.
23313409|Seventy-six species of vascular plants were located in the peatland surrounding Poutwater Pond. The flora included two state listed species, Orontium aquaticum (Araceae) and Arceuthobium pusillum (Viscaceae), which are listed as threatened or of special concern in Massachusetts and which were previously known from the site. Six communities were identified using multivariate analysis. These communities included two Dwarf Shrub communities dominated by Chamaedaphne calyculata, two Tall Shrub communities dominated by either Vaccinium corymbosum and Decodon verticillatus or by V. corymbosum and Myrica gale, and two Forested communities dominated by Acer rubrum and Larix laricina or by Picea mariana. The floristics and communities indicate that this peatland shares broad similarities with other peatlands in the southern part of the glaciated Northeast.
23313410|Over one hundred years of botanical investigation have documented 1180 species, 18 varieties, 1 subspecies, and 40 hybrids, for a total of 1239 taxa, of vascular plants in Caledonia County in northeastern Vermont. These represent 478 genera in 124 families. Formal investigation of the local flora began in the late 19th century. Much of the flora was documented by F. H. Blanchard (18511892), who collected intensively during the 1880s, providing current researchers with a "snapshot" of the flora a century ago. Recent work (19901998) has added 107 species to the county. Six species (Aster brachyactis, Carex ovalis, Crepis tectorum, Orobanche minor, Pulmonaria saccharata, and Veronica filiformis) are reported as new to Vermont. Rare and protected species are well represented with 29 taxa listed as threatened or endangered in Vermont, and another 61 considered rare at the state level.
23313393|Having scoured freshwater habitats throughout Connecticut for more than two years at 151 collection sites, we have discovered the presence of nine species and two varieties of the genus Vaucheria, including four species not previously known from the state: V. prona, V. taylorii, V. uncinata, and V. undulata. In addition, V. compacta, normally found in local estuaries, is reported in freshwater here, and is distinguished from its local freshwater variety, V. compacta var. dulcis. Culture conditions in the laboratory stimulated production of gametangia, allowing for identification of mostly vegetative field-collected samples. A key to the species and varieties is provided.
23313395|Cardamine georgiana is proposed to replace the illegitimate name C. microphylla (Willd.) O. E. Schulz (1903; non Adams 1817). A discussion on the generic limit of Cardamine including Dentaria is presented.
23313392|Studies of three groups of North American Acalypha (Euphorbiaceae) species are presented. Acalypha hederacea and A. monostachya have traditionally been separated by plant sexuality and staminate inflorescence length, but examination of specimens from throughout the ranges of these two taxa show that they do not differ in either character. Acalypha hederacea should be treated as a synonym of A. monostachya. Acalypha lindheimeri and A. phleoides supposedly differ in toothing of the bracts subtending the pistillate flowers and in the shape of the leaf apices. However bract toothing is highly variable among these plants and leaf apex shape varies clinally, with numerous intermediates. Acalypha lindheimeri, based on specimens both geographically and morphologically extreme, should be treated as a synonym of A. phleoides. The A. virginica group has a complex taxonomic history. Taxonomic confusion has resulted from emphasis on characters that are unreliable because they show overlapping variation among the taxa. Five species can be distinguished based on unambiguous, nonoverlapping characters.
23313394|Disturbances have the potential to increase the success of biological invasions. Norway maple (Acer platanoides), a common street tree native to Europe, is a foreign invasive with greater tolerance and more efficient resource utilization than the native sugar maple (Acer saccharum). This study examined the role disturbances from a road and path played in the invasion of Norway maple and in the distribution of sugar maple. Disturbed areas on the path and nearby undisturbed areas were surveyed for both species along transects running perpendicular to a road. Norway maples were present in greater number closer to the road and on the path, while the number of sugar maples was not significantly associated with either the road or the path. These results suggest that human-caused disturbances have a role in facilitating the establishment of an invasive species.
23313396|The geographic relationships among taxonomic groups are important to study to determine patterns of biodiversity and whether or not associations occur between large groups, e.g., birds and vascular plants. This study was undertaken to determine relationships between higher plants and lower plants, specifically vascular plant and lichen floras in nine national parks of the Great Lakes region. No significant relationship was found between vascular plant floras and lichen floras in this area, which spans 1200 km longitudinally, or between an additional 19 areas from North America that were less than 1000 km2 in area. For areas larger than 1000 km2, however, a significant positive relationship existed for 33 areas that span one to approximately 150 million km2. The ratio of numbers of vascular plants to lichens appeared to average just over 6 across the 33 areas. In the Great Lakes parks, between 2830% of either the vascular plant or lichen species were singletons (occurring in only one park), but the parks that contained the most singletons were not congruent: Isle Royale had the most singleton lichens, while Indiana Dunes had the most vascular plant singletons. Fewer lichen species (2%) than vascular plants (4%) occurred in all nine parks. Latitude appeared to explain some of the variation between the two groups: vascular plants decreased with increasing latitude, while lichens increased.
23313329|Morphological variables were analyzed using principal components and discriminant analyses to determine patterns of relationships among populations of Hackelia venusta, a narrow endemic, and H. diffusa var. arida, a relatively common species. The results of the analyses indicate that H. venusta, as currently circumscribed, consists of two discordant taxa with the population from the type locality at a low elevation clearly distinct from high elevation populations that have been assigned to this species. The high elevation populations represent an undescribed taxon. No affinities with either the low elevation H. venusta or the high elevation undescribed taxon were found to exist with populations of H. diffusa var. arida. Both H. venusta and the undescribed high elevation taxon are very narrow endemics and would benefit from well-developed conservation strategies and subsequent management.
23313331|Submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV), Zostera marina and Ruppia maritima, was surveyed and mapped for an inventory of inner Clinton Harbor, Clinton, Connecticut. Transects set at 30 meter intervals were established along the northern shoreline of the inner harbor, and SCUBA was utilized to count SAV short shoot densities. Surveys revealed that the majority of the inner harbor was dominated by nine areas (ca. 11 ha) of low density seagrass beds. In addition, nine areas (ca. 6.5 ha) of high density seagrass beds and ten areas (ca. 5.5 ha) of medium density seagrass beds were located. No SAV was found in the navigational channel or upon the mudflat along the northern shore of the inner harbor.
23313330|Myriophyllum mattogrossense is reported as new to Bolivia. This rare Watermilfoil of the Amazon Basin was previously known only from the original area of discovery in Brazil, one locality in the lowlands of Peru, and one in Ecuador. Notes on morphology, including a terrestrial growth form, and habitat are given, and a key is provided to differentiate the South American taxa of Myriophyllum.
23313332|Little Dollar Lake peatland, a Sphagnum-dominated poor fen peatland complex, has a flora consisting of 36 bryophyte and 93 vascular plant species. Random, quantitative sampling of 279 one-meter-square quadrats along 13 transects on six peatland mats was analyzed by two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN). Based on interpretation of the TWINSPAN analysis, three vegetation cover types and six constituent vegetation phases were delineated. The three cover types were designated as the Calamagrostis canadensis cover type (lagg habitats), the Chamaedaphne calyculata cover type (peatland mat habitats), and the Chamaedaphne calyculataTriadenum fraseri cover type (transitional habitats with evidence of terrestrialization). A fourth association, the Potamogeton confervoidesUtricularia geminiscapa cover type, was recognized based on qualitative field observations and consisted of the aquatic vegetation within Little Dollar Lake. Botanical evidence suggests that terrestrialization and small-scale paludification are occurring in some areas of the peatland.
23314457|Since 1939, when it escaped into the Rideau canal at Ottawa, Hydrocharis morsus-ranae has spread throughout much of southeastern Ontario, southern Quebec, and northern New York State. Over the past fourteen years it has increased its area of occurrence in North America by three times and is now known throughout the Rideau canal system, the lower Ottawa River, the entire St. Lawrence, eastern Lake Ontario, and also at Rondeau Park on the north shore of Lake Erie. It has also become much more frequent in areas from which it has been known for 1020 years. Occurrence in isolated pools suggests effective dispersal and colonization which may involve both seeds and turions. Although H. morsus-ranae differs from most other North American aquatics in having very rounded leaves with five prominent and converging primary veins, these characters do not distinguish it from floating-leaved forms of Limnobium spongia. The recent spread of H. morsus-ranae has resulted in it closely approaching the range of L. spongia, although the present distribution of the latter does not extend north of Illinois in the Mississippi drainage or north of New Jersey on the Atlantic coastal plain. Hydrocharis morsus-ranae differs from L. spongia in having relatively less well developed aerenchyma on the undersurface of the leaf, relatively longer leaf lobes, leaf veins on either side of the midvein less ascending, free stipules in pairs, roots usually unbranched and stolon buds developing one instead of numerous roots initially. Other characters differing between the two taxa are described including flowers, seeds, petiole lengths, and leaf venation. These latter characters are less significant in identification either due to their frequent absence on collected material or qualitative and overlapping nature.
23314456|Tithonia Desf. ex Gmelin is a genus distributed primarily in Mexico and Central America. The present treatment recognizes 13 taxa in 11 species, arranged in two sections. Chromosome counts are reported for 51 populations for 12 taxa of Tithonia. The genus is diploid at n = 17, with two taxa, T. koelzii McVaugh and T. calva var. auriculata La Duke, having B chromosomes. Numerical phenetics were used to help evaluate the morphological variation among the taxa. Fifty-eight characters were measured and evaluated using both cluster analysis and principal component analysis. These analyses resulted in a better understanding of subgeneric, specific, and subspecific groups. Phylogenetic reconstruction techniques were then used to develop hypotheses about the evolutionary relationships among the taxa. Using the phenetic and phylogenetic analyses, a subgeneric classification was proposed consisting of two sections, one of which has three series.
23311921|Malvastrum, a genus of yellow-flowered annual or perennial tropical and subtropical herbs in the Malvaceae, was described by Asa Gray in 1849 to include members of Sida and Malva that did not quite fit into those genera. During the next century the rather ill-defined genus became a repository for over 300 names. Subsequent monographic work brought about refinements in its circumscription that resulted in generic segregates and a core of so-called "true" Malvastrums. After morphological, karyological, phenological, and numerical analyses, the present study accepts seven sections, 14 species, six subspecies, and two varieties in Malvastrum. The following contributions have been made: 1) the citation of all of the names published in Malvastrum together with their present placement and disposition of types; 2) an analysis of the geographic distribution of Malvastrum together with an hypothetical account of the origin and subsequent dispersal of the species; 3) a comparison of the morphology, chromosome numbers, limited hybridization data, and floral behavior within Malvastrum resulting in a proposal of infra- and intergeneric relationships; 4) the inclusion of a revised generic description and diagnostic key to the taxa; and 5) the inclusion of a detailed description, synonymy, and illustration for each taxon, several of which have never previously been illustrated.
23311926|Chromosome numbers are presented for 36 populations of Peruvian Compositae representing 34 species distributed among 27 genera. Of these, 22 are first reports, two new generic counts (Garcilassa, n = 17 pair; Pseudonoseris, n = 12 pair). When appropriate, systematic implications of these data are discussed.
23311923|This checklist provides a field list of the alpine and coastal plain flora of Western Brook Pond and Deer Pond areas in Gros Morne National Park, western Newfoundland. Plants are listed under six major habitat types; including coastal forest, tuckamore, barrens, peatlands, alpine meadow and rocks, cliffs and gullies. A general vegetation profile with main soil types is also given. 1 Cette liste de contrle fournit un rpertoire des flores alpine et de la plaine cotire de Western Brook Pond et Deer Pond  l'interieur du Parc National Gros Morne dans la rgion ouest de Terre-Neuve. Les plantes y sont numrees selon les six principaux types d'habitat: la fort ctire, les tuckamores, les terres striles, les tourbires, les plaines alpines et les rochers, falaises et ravins. Une description gnrale de la vgtation, incluant les principaux types de sol, y est aussi donne.
23310993|A study of synthesized hybrids and wild strains of the species of Mentha has confirmed the origin and parentage of M.  dumetorum Schultes, (M. aquatica  M. longifolia). The study was based on morphology, chromosome number, meiotic behaviour, and pollen and seed fertility. Chromosome numbers of 2n = 60, 72, were obtained for M.  dumetorum. The interspecific hybrids showed 100% sterility correlated with meiotic irregularities.
23313266|Pollination biology, reproductive output, and population structure of male and female plants and flowers of Smilax herbacea were studied in nearly 900 individuals from 11 roadside populations in northeast-central Connecticut over a three-year period. Percentages of either sex did not vary across sites or between years. Reproductive plants represented 60% of an average population and nearly 65% of these were male. Female mortality is suggested as the most likely reason for the strong male bias (2.3  : 1 ). The male plants, although smaller, had twice the number of inflorescences, and 68% more flowers than female plants. Both inflorescence and flower number were significantly correlated with plant size in male plants. This correlation was absent for female plants implying that male plants are less constrained in the number of inflorescences and flowers they can produce. Although site size, population size, and population density of both female and male plants varied significantly across sites, gender and overall plant densities were not correlated with site size. However, a significant interaction was found between the densities of each sex and the site of their occurrence, suggesting that distribution of gender patterns may be influenced by site-specific ecological factors. Smilax herbacea can be characterized as a generalist in its attraction of pollinators. The carrion-like odor produced in tepals of male and female flowers, and the pollen reward of the staminate flowers attract bees, beetles, and flies. Due primarily to their high mobility and good pollen carrying capacity, andrenid and halictid bees and anthomyiid and stratiomyiid flies are considered major pollinators. Minor pollinators include soldier (Cantharidae), long-horned (Cerambycidae), and fire-colored (Pyrochroidae) beetles. Overall fruit set was lower in 1995 than in 1994 or 1996; this likely was due to unusually wet conditions that year. No significant difference in fruit set among populations was detected. Less than 1% of intrapopulational fruit set variation was explained by either site size or by plant density. Male plant densities were not significantly correlated with fruit set across sites. Further more, experimental interpopulational crosses did not significantly increase fruit set. These facts imply resource rather than pollen limitation in female plants.
23313269|The decurrent false aster, Boltonia decurrens (Asteraceae), is a Federally listed, threatened floodplain species endemic to a 400 km reach of the lower Illinois River and adjacent areas of the Mississippi River. The present study was conducted in response to the Recovery Plan for B. decurrens, which called for life history studies to provide information essential to planning management programs for the species. A series of laboratory studies was conducted to determine achene morphology, achene production and germination under a variety of conditions, and the potential for dispersal by water. Boltonia decurrens produces ca. 50,000 achenes per individual, and based on achene viability observed in this study, an average plant is capable of producing ca. 40,000 seedlings under optimal conditions for germination. There was no difference between germination of achenes produced by ray and disk florets; however, achene size had a significant effect on germination and viability, with larger achenes having higher levels of both. Achenes are morphologically adapted for flotation, and germination was not significantly reduced in achenes floated for four weeks. Achenes which were not exposed to light did not germinate, whether they were covered with aluminum foil or with sediment. Results suggest that factors other than fecundity are responsible for the threatened status of B. decurrens. Heavy siltation of river water caused by agricultural runoff, and flood control measures limiting dispersal may have contributed to the decline of the species.
23313268|Canonical discriminant analysis was used to determine: (1) whether Antennaria alpina occurs in North America or not; (2) which character or combination of characters could best be used to distinguish members of the A. alpina and A. media polyploid complexes; and (3) whether infraspecific taxa warrant formal recognition in A. alpina. The results of this investigation indicate that A. alpina does occur in North America. The main morphological distinctions between the two aforementioned polyploid complexes are the presence of scarious tips at the ends of middle to distal peduncular leaves in A. alpina, these being absent in A. media, and the shape of the involucral bracts. The analyses support the recognition of infraspecific taxa in A. alpina. To maintain consistency with other recent revisions of polyploid complexes in the genus, the rank of subspecies (A. alpina subsp. alpina, subsp. canescens, and subsp. porsildii) was selected. In addition to minor quantitative differences, the three subspecies differ with respect to the degree, distribution, and type of pubescence on the basal leaves.
23313267|Callitriche stagnalis (Callitrichaceae) is a widespread aquatic species in the Old World, but an adventive component of the North American flora. Herbarium records are used to document the historical and current distribution of C. stagnalis in North America. It is hypothesized that the species initially established in North American seaports. The earliest collections of C. stagnalis in North America are from coastal regions in New York (1861), Oregon (1871), and New Jersey (1885). Prior to 1925, it is known from only a single noncoastal location (Montana, 1898). The rate of spread of C. stagnalis on the east versus west coast of North America differs. The species was well established on the east coast by the 1920s in New Jersey, New York, and southeastern Pennsylvania. On the west coast, only two locations (Oregon, British Columbia) were known by this time. The current distribution indicates that the species has spread about the same distance in both east and west coastal regions (400500 miles): west coast, from the first documented locality in Clatsop Co., Oregon, to Napa Co., California, and east coast from Mercer Co., New Jersey, to regions of the St. Lawrence River in Quebec. Inland populations (Alabama, Montana, Wisconsin) are anomalous. Seed production is prolific in C. stagnalis and seeds are likely the principal unit of dispersal.
23313348|After decades of neglect, the sedge flora of Barbados was reappraised, beginning with intensive collections made across the island. Twenty-eight species of Cyperaceae from the genera Abildgaardia, Cyperus (including Mariscus), Eleocharis, Fimbristylis, Kyllinga, Pycreus, Rhynchospora, Scleria, and Torulinium are described and illustrated with photographs. Keys are provided to all of the species, as well. Five species are added to the flora of Barbados. Species previously recorded but not found recently are noted.
23313347|Based upon recent collections at 28 sites plus historical data from the last century, the macroalgal flora of Mount Desert Island consists of 41 Chlorophyceae, 50 Phaeophyceae, and 55 Rhodophyceae. Previously, 121 seaweeds were recorded from Mount Desert Island and 113 taxa were found during present sampling. A comparison of the two time periods shows 88 taxa in common or a 75% similarity. Varying percent similarity patterns are evident when historical and present collections at Otter Cliffs (68%), Seal Harbor (43%), and the Seawall-Southwest Harbor areas (54%) are compared. The reduced values for Seal Harbor may reflect anthropogenic effects, while the other values may represent varying levels of taxonomic characterization and/or temporal variability of floras. Pronounced habitat diversity on Mount Desert Island probably causes the relatively low intra-island similarity patterns (x = 36.8  7.6%), while interisland comparisons of other Northwest Atlantic islands are much higher (ca. 51.092.0%, x = 72.3%  6.0%). In comparing species richness around Mount Desert Island, the largest numbers of taxa occur on the exposed coasts at Otter Cliffs and Seawall that experience intense wave activity, while the lowest numbers occur at several sheltered sites. Zonation patterns at three representative sites (exposed Otter Cliffs, protected Otter Cove, and sheltered Thompson Island) show pronounced localized differences. The biological zones at Otter Cliffs exceed mean tidal amplitude, and patterns of species richness there are also higher than at the other two Mount Desert sites. Green algae show the most conspicuous decrease in species richness with increasing shelter. Of the 32 intertidal species in common with a 1928 zonation study at Otter Cliffs, 13 showed a conspicuous reduction in their upper distributional limits (0.5 to 2.0 m), while none showed an upward expansion. Such reductional patterns may reflect either a general warming trend in the Gulf of Maine or the effects of air pollution during intertidal exposure.
23313342|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the Poaceae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. The 338 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms) are mapped based on specimens in the major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with primary emphasis on the holdings of the New England Botanical Club herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in recent manuals and floras for the area, habitat, chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23313363|Drosera filiformis and D. tracyi occupy allopatric ranges, except for one restricted area in northwest Florida. Drosera filiformis is nearly restricted to the Atlantic Coastal Plain; D. tracyi is restricted to the Gulf Coastal Plain. The two species have been found to grow sympatrically in only one limited area. Natural hybrids are unknown. The distribution of D. filiformis is notable for its series of disjunct populations; only three other Atlantic Coastal Plain species are distributed in a similar pattern. The distribution of D. tracyi is continuous and without disjunctions. Many Gulf Coastal Plain species share this pattern, including close relatives of the four Atlantic disjuncts. It is postulated that the Atlantic disjuncts assumed their current discontinuous distributions through a series of short to moderately long dispersal events, followed by a loss of intervening populations. Either the Atlantic disjuncts were derived from their Gulf Coast counterparts, or both geographic groups were derived from a now extinct precursor.
23313366|Carex enneastachya is the only member of section Phacocystis thus far known from northern South America. Carex azuayae, originally described from Ecuador, is here considered to be conspecific with C. enneastachya. Additionally, this note represents the first report of C. enneastachya from Bolivia.
23313365|We examined allozyme variation in five populations of Amelanchier laevis, which is known to be a facultative apomict in Maine, and four populations of a closely allied species, A. arborea. While A. laevis had slightly less genetic variation than A. arborea and less than half the number of multilocus genotypes per population, ranges of these parameters overlap extensively for the two species. Therefore, overall, these two species are comparable in the amount and distribution of their allozyme variation. Both species also had less diversity than expected based on their life history traits. Little interpopulation genetic differentiation occurred in either species, perhaps due to gene flow via avian fruit dispersal. Genetic identities are quite high among populations within each species as well as between the two species. In fact, each A. arborea population was more similar to at least one A. laevis population than to other A. arborea populations. Amelanchier laevis populations were also more similar to populations of the other species except in the case of two of the Maine populations. Recent morphological diversification and/or extensive hybridization in the genus may account for these results. Studies of additional Amelanchier species would indicate whether or not the level and pattern of genetic variation and the high genetic similarities of these two taxa are representative of the genus.
23313367|The seed bank compositions of four different coastal sand dunes on Cape Cod National Seashore (Massachusetts, USA) were characterized and used to predict the potential of seed banks in restoring species diversity in degraded sand dunes. Seedling emergence from sand collected from each site was observed over 15 weeks. A total of 254 seedlings emerged during the study. A single species, Artemisia caudata, was responsible for 85% of the total seedling emergence, and all but one of those seedlings was from a single study site. Overall, seedling emergence and the species diversity of seedlings was low, indicating a low density of seeds in the sand dune substrate. Seedlings emerged from only 20% of the sand samples, indicating that the distribution of seeds in the sand is tightly clustered. The lowest numbers of seedlings emerged from the most severely degraded site which had recently been replanted with Ammophila breviligulata (American Beachgrass). Potential reasons for this clumping of seedlings are discussed, including poor seed dispersal as a result of buried mature infructescences or as a result of wind deposition of seeds in small depressions. The results suggest that the existing seed bank is unlikely to lead to significant increases in species diversity at sites undergoing restoration. Consequently, the importation of sand and its associated seed bank from more mature sites is not a feasible means of restoring diversity because of the low density and species diversity of seeds in the sand at more stable sites.
23313364|Isoetes microvela, sp. nov., is described from cytologically confirmed hexaploid populations from the coastal plain of North Carolina. At least one population grows over thinly-buried calcareous bedrock, a rare condition on the predominantly acidic southeastern coastal plain. It is a large quillwort of periodically inundated and scoured stream banks and shallow water. It is characterized by a densely short-crested to reticulate-tuberculate megaspore ornamentation pattern intermediate in appearance between that of I. appalachiana and I. hyemalis, an exceptionally small velum covering  10% of the heavily brown-streaked sporangium, and by obscurely tuberculate microspores. A key to the Isoetes of the southeastern coastal plain is presented. Isoetes microvela is suspected to represent an allopolyploid derived from the doubling of a sterile triploid hybrid, most likely I. bruntonii (= I. engelmannii  I. hyemalis) or I. appalachiana  I. engelmannii. Isoetes microvela is a rare species, presently known from only two populations.
23314688|Riparian forests of northwestern Pennsylvania's Allegheny High Plateau are often dominated by eastern hemlock, Tsuga canadensis, a tree species under threat from the introduced hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). It is vital to document the structure and composition of these forests before adelgid invasion to understand how they may respond to this disturbance and to provide information useful for future restoration and management efforts. To meet these goals, we compared the composition and structure of old-growth and second-growth stands in a T. canadensis-dominated riparian forest along Henry Run, Cook Forest State Park, Pennsylvania. Tsuga canadensis strongly dominated the large tree stratum of the old-growth stand, followed by Betula lenta and Fagus grandifolia. Tsuga canadensis and Pinus strobus were codominant in the second-growth stand with B. lenta, Fraxinus americana, and Acer rubrum as secondary species. Seedlings and saplings of dominant tree species in both old-growth and second-growth stands were under represented relative to small and large trees, indicating regeneration difficulties. The alien shrub Berberis thunbergii was the only sapling species to occur in the second-growth stand, perhaps a land-use legacy, but was absent from the seedling stratum. We predict that the potential loss of T. canadensis from the canopy at Henry Run may cause a shift in composition to B. lenta and/or P. strobus as these species capture gaps created by dead and dying T. canadensis. However, browsing pressure by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and competition with B. thunbergii may affect regeneration success of specific tree species and ultimately, future forest canopy composition.
23314686|Metal-enriched habitats often harbor physiologically distinct biotas able to tolerate and accumulate toxic metals. Plants and lichens that accumulate metals have served as effective indicators of ecosystem pollution. Whereas the diversity of metal-tolerant lichens has been well documented globally, the literature of metal-tolerant lichen communities for eastern North America is limited. We examined the lichen flora of the Callahan Mine, a Cu-, Pb-, and Zn-enriched superfund site in Brooksville, Hancock County, Maine, U.S.A. Through collections along transects across metal-contaminated areas of the mine, we documented 76 species of lichens and related fungi. Fifty species were saxicolous, 26 were terricolous. Forty-three species were macrolichens, 31 were microlichens. Although no globally rare or declining species were encountered at the mine, two regionally rare or declining species, Stereocaulon tomentosum and Leptogium imbricatum, were found. The species found at the Callahan Mine were mostly ecological generalists frequenting disturbed habitats. Two extensively studied Cu-tolerant lichens, Acarospora smaragdula and Lecanora polytropa, and other known Cd-, Cu-, Pb-, and Zn-tolerant taxa, were found at the site.
23314687|Utricularia resupinata is an Atlantic Coastal Plain relict of the aquatic vascular flora of Indiana and is one of 10 species of bladderwort found in the state. This species was thought to be extirpated from Indiana until it was rediscovered at a historical locality in 2005. We document two additional populations of this species in Indiana and report on the status of all known historical localities in the state. Six palustrine sites in Lake County and nine lacustrine sites in northern Indiana were identified and surveyed; however, no extant populations were found. We provide a historical synopsis of alterations to wetland habitat in Lake County and identify habitat destruction as the main contributing factor leading to the loss of U. resupinata from these palustrine sites. Although suitable habitat appeared to be present at most lacustrine sites, several other factors may be important in contributing to the perceived rarity of this species. Inadequate sampling techniques, which include a tendency to confine searches for this species to shoreline habitats instead of deeper areas of the littoral zone, the use of in-boat aquatic plant survey methods, and an over-reliance on flowering material for identification of a species that seldom flowers, have contributed to a greater perception of rarity than may actually be present. In contrast, competitive exclusion by larger aquatic plants and charophytes may provide an ecological explanation for the rarity of this species in some locations.
23314690|We characterized the morphological variation and algal species associations of the filamentous green alga, Acrosiphonia arcta (distinguishing it from its closely related sister genus Spongomorpha), in two contrasting environments in Nova Scotia, Canada. The habitats differed in seawater salinity and temperature (and fluctuations thereof), substratum, vertical position on the shore, wave exposure, turbidity, and diversity of macroalgae and macrofauna. Acrosiphonia arcta thalli exhibited distinct morphologies in the different environments. Thalli from the open-ocean Whitehead site (Atlantic coast) exhibited the typical A. arcta morphology of profuse, short, curved branches and rhizoids binding the filaments together to form hemispherical to spherical tufts. Thalli from the sheltered Pomquet Harbour Estuary (Gulf of St. Lawrence coast) consisted of matted clumps with extensive rhizoidal growth at the base but little branching otherwise. Acrosiphonia arcta was primarily associated with thick leathery and crustose (coralline) algae at Whitehead. In the Pomquet Harbour Estuary, a less stable habitat than Whitehead, sheet and filamentous algae were in greater abundance with A. arcta than at Whitehead. Damaged apical cells from thalli of both Pomquet and Whitehead A. arcta were able to regenerate new filamentous tips or to give rise to rhizoids, phenomena not previously documented for Acrosiphonia in North America. Morphological variation of A. arcta in different habitats points to its ability to respond to and persist in a wide range of abiotic (and possibly biotic) conditions, and helps to explain its seasonal dominance on the east and west coasts of North America.
23314689|Four parameters were used to determine pollinator effectiveness of floral visitors to two sympatric species of Symphyotrichum (S. lanceolatum and S. lateriflorum): (1) pollinator efficiency; (2) relative abundance of visitors; (3) amount of pollen carried on a visitor's body; and (4) visitor foraging time per capitulum. The most effective pollinators of S. lanceolatum were Apis mellifera (Apidae), Eristalis spp. (Syrphidae), Dolichovespula arenaria, and Polistes fuscatus (both Vespidae). Halictidae (sweat bees) and Tachinidae (Diptera) were also potentially effective pollinators. For S. lateriflorum, effective pollinators included D. arenaria, Vespula maculifrons (Vespidae), Lasioglossum spp. (Halictidae), and A. mellifera, with large syrphid flies also having moderate importance. The Halictidae was the only group of visitors that demonstrated a significant difference in the amount of time spent foraging the floral heads of these two aster species. Despite spending more time foraging the floral heads of S. lateriflorum, halictid bees carried the same average pollen load regardless of the species of Symphyotrichum from which they were collected. Halictid bees, however, are potentially more effective pollinators of S. lateriflorum than of S. lanceolatum.
23314599|In 2008 a calcareous mound fen not listed in the state Natural Heritage Inventory was discovered in south-central Wisconsin. Air photo interpretations and interviews with land users indicated two distinct major historical alterations to this fen: (1) drainage tiling without widespread soil disturbance and (2) plowing with or without direct drainage. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination of survey plots revealed that an assemblage of calciphiles, fen indicators, and wetland generalists persisted in the mound's center, while invasive herbaceous and woody vegetation reached highest cover along the disturbed flanks. Cluster analyses revealed three distinct communities: (1) a fen meadow in the center of the fen, (2) invading shrub-carr in tiled areas, and (3) a weedy/invasive herbaceous community where soil disturbance was widespread. This study lends support to past assertions that drainage can lead to shrub-carr invasion and suggests that widespread soil disturbance can lead to domination by herbaceous invasive plants on fen flanks.
23314598|Typically, non-native invasive plant species are considered a threat to rare native plants, but this generalization may not hold true for rare parasitic plants that depend upon host plants to complete their life cycles. It is essential to know what plant species a particular hemiparasitic species associates with in the field, in order to determine host plant preferences and to make broader inferences about host plants. Pedicularis lanceolata is a hemiparasite that is regionally rare in New England and the southeastern margins of its range, but more abundant in the core of its range in the Midwest. I sought to compare the species associated with P. lanceolata in the core and margins of its range to determine if marginal populations have different associates from core populations. I hypothesized that P. lanceolata may be rare in the eastern United States because it encounters fewer suitable associates, and potentially more competitive invasive species, at the margins of its range than at the center of its range. In each of 22 populations of P. lanceolata I recorded abundances of all vascular plants growing near five focal P. lanceolata individuals. Different suites of species co-occurred with P. lanceolata in different parts of its range, but there were no significant differences across its range in the percent covers of natives, non-native invasives, non-native non-invasives, or species with native and non-native genotypes. These results suggest that non-native invasive species do not pose greater threats to edge populations of P. lanceolata than to core populations. The data suggest that candidates for potential hosts include members of the Asteraceae and Poaceae, Cirsium discolor, Clematis virginiana, Cornus amomum, Eupatorium maculatum, E. perfoliatum, Impatiens capensis, Lycopus uniflorus, and Vernonia gigantea. These data provide baseline data for future manipulative studies on host-preference of P. lanceolata.
23314601|The endangered western prairie fringed orchid, Platanthera praeclara, is found in remnant tall grass prairie in the central plains of North America. Platanthera praeclara is pollinated by several species of hawkmoths (Sphingidae) in Canada. There is minimal overlap between the flight period of hawkmoth pollinators and the flowering period of the Canadian orchid population, with orchids normally flowering at the end of the hawkmoth flight period. This study was designed to determine if orchids produce more nectar and higher concentrations of sugars in the nectar at the beginning of the flowering period coinciding with maximal pollinator flight times. As pollinators are nocturnally active, we also determined if orchids produce more nectar or nectar with increased concentrations of sugars during the night versus the daytime. Nectar sugar concentration and the amount of nectar per flower were highest at the beginning of the flowering period, and significantly decreased as the season progressed. Nectar volume increased in the evening and during the night but sugar concentration remained relatively unchanged. We examined nectar volume and sugar concentration by flower position, as the majority of the flowers encountered by pollinators in the first few days of the bloom period were lower-positioned flowers due to the sequential flowering nature of the orchid. Within the inflorescence, lower-positioned flowers had higher sugar concentrations in comparison to higher-positioned flowers at the start of the flowering period, but sugar concentrations converged as the season progressed. There was no difference in the amount of nectar present in low- or top-positioned flowers. Orchids may show increased nectar sugar concentrations and amounts at the beginning of the flowering period to capitalize on the presence of hawkmoth pollinators.
23314600|We studied the influence of local site characteristics on the abundance of Equisetum scirpoides, a regionally rare, circumboreal species, at five sites in the Deerfield River watershed of Massachusetts, near the southern edge of its range. Equisetum scirpoides was most abundant on north- to northeast-facing, steep slopes (2234), with low total basal area (TBA) and small stem size. While E. scirpoides was always found in association with Tsuga canadensis, plots with high-density E. scirpoides were associated with lower Tsuga TBA than "low density/absent" plots. Average Tsuga and deciduous stem diameter at breast height within "high density" plots was significantly lower than in "low density/absent" plots. Our results suggest that E. scirpoides is unlikely to occur on south-facing slopes and, where it occurs on north-facing slopes, it requires low deciduous canopy cover and frequent disturbance, which exposes mineral soil. Equisetum scirpoides was absent from several similar habitats (i.e., with northerly aspect, steep slopes, clay substrate, Tsuga canopy, and massive bank failure) within the study watershed, suggesting that it has low dispersal capability at that scale.
23314659|Despite nearly a century of research, the systematic relationships among North American pitcher plants in the genus Sarracenia (Sarraceniaceae) remain unresolved. In this study we analyzed pollen morphology of the 11 currently recognized species of Sarracenia and examined how variations in key pollen characteristics relate to our current understanding of the taxonomy of this genus. We used principal components analysis to explore variations in pollen grain size (equatorial diameter and length) and shape (number of colpi) among Sarracenia species, and used cluster analysis to compare systematic groupings of Sarracenia based on floral, vegetative, and pollen characters. We compared these results with a previously published phylogeny based on molecular data. Groupings based on pollen characteristics alone did not align completely with those based on molecular or all morphological data. In clusters based on pollen alone and those using all morphological characters, S. purpurea and S. rosea formed a single group, and S. flava, S. alata, and S. leucophylla grouped together consistently. The pollen morphology of S. jonesii and S. alabamensis differed substantially from that of S. rubra, supporting the current systematic treatment of the genus that recognizes these three taxa as distinct species.
23314662|In taxa with few diagnostic characters, highly variable populations pose a major challenge to delimiting species. This is especially true in Dodecatheon (Primulaceae), which has a notoriously complex taxonomic history. Previous biosystematic studies of Dodecatheon in southern Illinois support the recognition of two species: D. frenchii, a diploid sandstone cliff endemic, and D. meadia, a widespread tetraploid. However, only one morphological character distinguishes them and some experimental evidence suggests that this character may be environmentally induced. Furthermore, authors have disagreed about the nature of morphologically intergrading populations. In this study, we document patterns of variation for fruit and seed characters among populations in southern Illinois, including one atypical, morphologically intergrading population. Different seed shapes help distinguish these taxa, both in southern Illinois and across their larger ranges. We also show that the intergrading population is significantly more variable than others, and describe the occurrence of such populations in other regions where these two taxa co-occur. These two results suggest that localized hybridization between these species may contribute to their complex taxonomic history.
23314663|The seaweed flora of Bras d'Or Lake, Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia is compared with those of the Baltic Sea in northern Europe and five Northwest Atlantic embayments ranging from Pomquet Harbour, Nova Scotia to Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island. Both Bras d'Or Lake and the Baltic Sea have experienced extensive geological and hydrographic changes during the past 15,000 years, which have resulted in limited connections to the open sea, negligible tides, low salinities, and reduced floras. The ecology of these two unique saltwater bodies differs from true estuaries like the York River of Maine, the Great Bay Estuary System of New Hampshire/Maine, and the Merrimack River of Massachusetts, which experience extreme hydrographic and tidal variability. Of the 309 total seaweed taxa recorded from the six Northwest Atlantic embayments, Bras d'Or Lake had the lowest number of red, brown, and green algae (i.e., 83) and shared taxa (mean 61.2  4.9 SE), whereas Narragansett Bay had the highest numbers of total (203) and shared taxa (mean 111.6  20.1 SE). Several taxa were restricted to single embayments, with a few glacial and limnic relicts occurring in Bras d'Or Lake and the Baltic Sea. Nine disjunct warm-water taxa were present in Bras d'Or Lake, with this representing the second highest numbers found in four embayments located north of Cape Cod, Massachusetts; this pattern reflects the characteristics of a shallow inland lake. Eleven introduced taxa were recorded from the various Northwest Atlantic embayments, ranging from two in Bras d'Or Lake to 310 in the other five embayments. The absence of an intertidal fucoid zone in the Lake (and the Baltic Sea) is probably associated with several physical factors, including a lack of tides, extensive ice-scouring, long-lasting atmospheric reductions of sea level, and reduced salinities. By contrast, the occurrence of subtidal fucoid algae within both brackish water habitats is probably due to a lack of strong competition from perennial kelp populations, which have limited tolerances to low salinities. Morphological features of attached submerged fucoids are analogous to those of loose-lying or entangled salt marsh forms, which are usually small, thin, profusely branched, and have extensive vegetative fragmentation. Unique aegagropilous (detached, ball-shaped) populations of Gracilaria tikvahiae also were found at some inland Bras d'Or Lake sites, presumably resulting from ice scouring and detachment.
23314661|We conducted a preliminary floristic study of six vernal pools in Acadia National Park on Mount Desert Island, Maine. Plant species were recorded on three sampling dates from April to October, 2008. Sixty-five vascular plant species from 26 families were recorded. Of these, 27 are considered occasional or uncommon in Acadia National Park: Thirteen species are new reports for vernal pools in the northeastern United States. This represents the first published study of the vernal pool flora of Acadia National Park.
23314660|Geranium dodecatheoides P.J. Alexander & Aedo (Geraniaceae), a new species from the Sierra Blanca in Lincoln Co., New Mexico, is described and illustrated. This new species is related to North American species of sect. Caespitosa R. Knuth, which have dichasial inflorescences and petals that are hairy on the adaxial surface. It is distinguished from other members of Caespitosa primarily by having narrow, reflexed petals.
23314709|A floristic survey of Lauderdale County, Mississippi was undertaken from the spring of 2004 through the fall of 2009 in order to document the flora and describe plant communities from this poorly studied region within Mississippi. A total of 1175 vascular plant species (1206 taxa altogether, including species and infraspecific taxa) was recorded from the county. Oenothera sinuosa and Geranium molle were collected for the first time in the state of Mississippi, and Carex breviculmis was recorded from North America for the first time. One hundred and eighty-six introduced species were recorded in the county. Forty-seven rare and uncommon species, according to the Mississippi Natural Heritage Program special plant tracking and watch lists, were recorded from Lauderdale County and many range extensions and species disjunctions were discovered. We describe nine primary plant communities in the county and discuss the biogeographical importance of the flora of Lauderdale County relative to the rest of the state.
23314710|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the taxa of Caryophyllidae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. Of the 263 taxa treated (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms), 261 are mapped based primarily on specimens in major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with most data derived from the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in standard manuals and floras for the area, habitat, chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23313236|The species placed in Paralychnophora by MacLeish are returned to the genus Eremanthus, and two related species, E. harleyi and E. santosii, are described as new.
23313235|Uncinia macrolepis and U. tenuis are reported for the first time from Colombia. Additionally, four new Colombian sites are recorded for U. paludosa, previously known from only a single site in the country. A key to the five Uncinia species known to occur in Colombia is provided.
23313234|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the pteridophytes (Lycopodiophyta, Equisetophyta, Polypodiophyta) and gymnosperms (Coniferophyta) growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. The 171 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties and hybrids, but not forms) are mapped at the county level based on specimens in the major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut, with primary emphasis on the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in recent manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information and common names also are provided.
23313258|We surveyed forests in Massachusetts to identify any remaining old-growth stands. We located twenty-eight tracts in western Massachusetts that met our criteria, with one additional site east of the Connecticut River. Hemlock and northern hardwoods in excess of 150200 years dominate most sites, which range in area from 328 ha. Most stands occur on steep slopes and may have escaped cutting due to their inaccessibility. Several potential sites remain to be investigated, but we do not expect that the total area of old-growth forests in Massachusetts will greatly exceed 260 ha. However, less stringent definitions of old growth may include additional sites and greater acreages. Data collected from 26 permanent vegetation monitoring plots provide comparisons with other forests. Basal areas in the old-growth stands are similar to other old-growth forests in New England, from 3442.8 m2/ha; values are only slightly higher than basal areas from nearby second growth forests of the same type. Densities of stems >10 cm dbh in the old-growth plots are 347480 trees/ha, 2540% lower than in second growth forests. No vascular plant species were encountered that were unique to the old-growth stands.
23313257|Ninety-seven taxa of seaweeds were collected from nine islands within the Penobscot Bay area of central Maine, including 25 Chlorophyceae, 34 Phaeophyceae, and 38 Rhodophyceae. The patterns of species richness and longevity (#annuals/#perennials) per island are highly variable, with species richness ranging from only 4 taxa on Allen I. to 65 on Wooden Ball I. (mean = 30.8  23.0 taxa) and longevity ratios varying from 0.331.0 (0.64  28.1). A total of 48 annuals and 49 perennials is recorded throughout the Bay, giving a longevity ratio of 0.98. This value is lower than that found at many open coastal habitats within the Gulf of Maine. An examination of historical collections by J. Hooper and F. S. Collins from the 1800s revealed three unusual coastal records (Stilophora rhizoides, Gracilaria tikvahiae, and Cladophora ruchingeri) and sixteen additional seaweeds that were not encountered in our study. Based upon these historical and present collections, as well as extensive sampling from more than 70 nearshore sites, a total of 139 seaweed taxa is known from the Penobscot Bay area, including 40 Chlorophyceae, 47 Phaeophyceae and 52 Rhodophyceae. In a comparison of seaweed floras from fourteen individual islands, from South Wolf I., New Brunswick, to Penikese I., Massachusetts (including a "composite" of Penobscot Bay Islands), 216 seaweed taxa are documented, including 52 Chlorophyceae, 63 Phaeophyceae, and 101 Rhodophyceae. The highest numbers of taxa occur at Smuttynose I., Maine (136), and Penikese I., Massachusetts (131), and the lowest on Wooden Ball I., Maine (65), Monhegan I., Maine (64), and Kent I., New Brunswick (63). Floristic affinities of individual islands tend to mimic patterns of species richness, with Smuttynose having the highest number of shared taxa (mean = 92.4  20.2) and Kent and Wooden Ball Islands the lowest numbers (mean = 50.8  5.2 and 53.9  6.2, respectively). The seaweed diversity of Penikese Island and nearby environs (187 taxa) is comparable to the entire Gulf of Maine.
23313256|This newly described variety of Heuchera micrantha is characterized by the presence of widely ovate petals, a cyathiform calyx, and in general, a taller inflorescence than the other varieties of H. micrantha. Clearly different from the other varieties of H. micrantha in the shape of the flower, in the greater width of the petal, and in having fewer flowers per lateral branch of the inflorescence, it appears to be distinct at the varietal level. The cyathiform calyx is not found in any other H. micrantha variety. The exserted stigmas and stamens, the size of the flower, the leaf shape, and indumentum are characters held in common with the other varieties of H. micrantha, which place this taxon within our circumscription of the species.
23313246|Hopewell Culture National Historical Park, a unit of the United States National Park Service located in Ross County in south central Ohio, was created to restore, protect, and interpret the legacy of the mound building Hopewell prehistoric peoples. The vascular flora of the park had been estimated to be only 20% known prior to the undertaking of this project. During the spring, summer, and fall of 1995, almost 700 plant specimens were collected by three investigators from five units of the park. Totals of 438 species, 281 genera, and 93 families of vascular plants were discovered, representing 40% of the flora of Ross County, and 17% of the flora of Ohio. Introduced species constituted 32% of the flora. Sixty-five species are new records for Ross County. Two species of special concern, Spiranthes ovalis and Eleocharis ovata, are on the state's threatened and endangered species list. The Hopewell unit had the highest plant diversity of the five units.
23313248|A long-term floristic study of the macroalgae, bryophytes, and vascular plants in the vicinity of Latimer Point, Stonington, New London County, Connecticut was made from 1969 to 1992. Four-hundred twenty-seven taxa were found including 30 marine macroalgae, 12 mosses, 10 ferns and fern allies, 1 conifer, and 374 flowering plants. Five species are reported as new to southeastern Connecticut: Cuscuta pentagona, Eschscholzia californica, Poa palustris, Stachys byzantina, and Viola priceana. Two species listed as endangered in Connecticut are known from the area, Angelica lucida and Ligusticum scothicum, and one species listed as of special concern, Honckenya peploides, is also present. Changes in composition of the terrestrial flora during the 25 year period include the invasion of Ailanthus altissima, Elaeagnus umbellata, and Paulownia tomentosa, an increase in populations of 14 exotic species, and the decline of six native species.
23313245|A set of 372 vegetation relevs was collected from coastal sandplain communities on Nantucket, Cape Cod, and Martha's Vineyard. Sites on Nantucket had the highest average number of rare species and the lowest number of non-native species. We used TWINSPAN to identify major vegetation types from these data. The first division separated the samples into heathlands and grasslands. Heathlands subsequently were classified into two major types: 1) Tall Shrub, including Huckleberry-Scrub Oak (Gaylussacia baccata-Quercus ilicifolia) and Mixed Maritime Shrublands (G. baccata, Myrica pensylvanica, and others), and 2) Low Shrub, including Broom Crowberry (Corema conradii) and Bearberry (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi) Heathlands. The two major grassland types were designated Hairgrass (Deschampsia flexuosa) and Little Bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium), after the dominant taxa. Hairgrass Grasslands included a Beach subtype often dominated by coastal species (Ammophila breviligulata, Hudsonia tomentosa), and a Heathy Grassland that includes many ericads and graminoids. Little Bluestem Grasslands were divided into several subtypes, including Weedy Grasslands with many introduced species, Pennsylvania Sedge Grasslands dominated by Carex pensylvanica, and High Diversity Native Sandplain Grasslands, which included many rare species, few exotics, and high species diversity. We discuss successional relationships among sandplain vegetation types.
23313247|The taxonomy of the Missouri members of the genus Scirpus sensu lato is discussed in light of recent classifications, and justifications are presented for segregating the 26 species into 5 genera: Scirpus sensu stricto, Schoenoplectus, Bolboschoenus, Isolepis, and Trichophorum. Nomenclature of the Missouri taxa is summarized. Three species (Isolepis molesta, Schoenoplectus mucronatus, and Schoenoplectus purshianus) and two putative hybrids (Schoenoplectus acutus  tabernaemontani and Schoenoplectus acutus  heterochaetus) are discussed as additions to the state's flora, and the status of three other recent additions (Schoenoplectus deltarum, Schoenoplectus saximontanus, and Scirpus pedicellatus) is updated.
23314071|The New England Plant Conservation Program (NEPCoP) regional rare plant list, "Flora Conservanda: New England," identifies vascular plant taxa in need of regional conservation. In 1993, NEPCoP established a Listing Committee consisting of representatives of each of the six state Natural Heritage Programs (NHPs) and additional scientists. The most current information on the rare vascular flora of each state, stored at the respective NHPs, was used as the basis of the NEPCoP List. The List comprises 576 taxa in five divisions: Division 1Globally Rare Taxa (57 taxa); Division 2Regionally Rare Taxa (273 taxa); Division 3Locally Rare Taxa (75 taxa); Division 4Historic Taxa (55 taxa); and Division Indeterminate (IND.)116 taxa.
23314720|A new variety of Sarracenia purpurea L. ssp. venosa (Raf.) Wherry is herein described as var. burkii. The variety is confined to the Gulf coastal plain and is characterized by pale pink to lavender petals and a white to pale green-white carpel, the umbraculate portion of the style being most apparent in this respect.
23314724|Morphological investigation of the Chamaesyce deltoidea complex demonstrates a lack of sharp boundaries between the taxa. In combination with distributional data, the observed patterns of morphological variation suggest that the complex is best treated as a single polymorphic species. New combinations are proposed for Chamaesyce pinetorum and C. adhaerens to provide a consistent treatment for the morphological groups within the complex. The current conservation status of each morphological group is reviewed.
23314719|Schiedeella romeroana Szlach., sp. nov., is newly described. It is distinguished by its lack of both rostellum and viscidium. The lip is distinctly divided into a rectangular hypochile with reduced basal auricles and a rounded epichile. It is compared with S. valerioi (Ames & Schweinf.) Szlach. & Scheviak, S. amesiana Garay and S. llaveana (Lindl.) Schlecht.
23314725|Potentilla robbinsiana Oakes ex Rydb. was first collected ca. 1824 by Thomas Nuttall on Monroe Flats in the Presidential Range of New Hampshire. Partly because the plant has always been rare, botanists have searched for, collected, studied, hiked past, propagated, and protected it. This paper documents botanical exploration, taxonomic interpretations, and historical status of P. robbinsiana populations. In the last 160 years, human interplay with P. robbinsiana has gone through roughly three phases of intense interest: discovery, collection and stewardship. In each period, human perceptions of, and reactions to, the rarity of this species have changed. The most significant human impact on the Monroe Flats plants was trail disturbance and zealous herbarium collection in the late 1800's. Even the cumulative removal of over 850 plants (equivalent to approximately half of the population) has not permanently affected the population size or distribution on Monroe Flats. Active conservation over the past 75 years has supplemented the natural resilience of the species. A second tiny and imperiled population on Franconia Ridge, discovered by Edward Tuckerman, Jr. ca. 1840, has never drawn much management or botanical interest.
23314721|Populations of Rhododendron albiflorum Hook. in Colorado are disjunct by ca. 1470 km from populations in the Pacific Northwest. Morphological data showed that plants from the two sets of populations differed in length and width of petals and length of stamens. Genetic identity figures based on analysis of isozyme electrophoresis found Colorado and Pacific Northwest populations to have an  value of .76. These morphological, geographical and isozymic data support recognition of the Colorado plants as Rhododendron albiflorum Hook. var. warrenii (A. Nelson) M. A. Lane, comb. & stat. nov.; the Pacific Northwest plants are Rhododendron albiflorum Hook. var. albiflorum.
23314723|Grasses traditionally assigned to Aristida stricta Michx. include two morphologically and geographically separate species. The name Aristida stricta Michx. corresponds to a taxon confined to North Carolina and the northern tier of counties in South Carolina. A second species, Aristida beyrichiana Trin. & Rupr., occurs from southern South Carolina south throughout Florida and west to Mississippi.
23312984|The second internal transcribed spacer (ITS-2) of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) was sequenced for the three phenotypes of Arisaema ringens (Araceae). These sequences were invariant, and are therefore not systematically informative. However, when considered along with the anatomical, morphological, cytological, and palynological data summarized here, the recognition of intraspecific taxa in A. ringens is not supported.
23312981|Eleocharis species unassigned by Svenson to the series level at the completion of his worldwide monograph were examined utilizing scanning electron microscopy. Acid treated achenes with their cuticle and outer periclinal cell walls removed revealed micro-morphological characters in support of assigning E. squamigera and E. subarticulata to the series Palustriformes, subseries Truncatae. Although the results failed to delegate unequivocally E. albida and E. melanocarpa, additional insight regarding their infrageneric relationship was obtained. An assessment of E. minarum proved to be impossible due to the absence of mature achenes.
23312990|During the last decade the discovery of a number of new plant localities have added additional species to the flora of New Hampshire. Most of those have been native plants, and the new sites are valued records for the data base on rare plants. Three of the additions reported here are aggressive weeds of aquatic habitats, a fourth is an introduction of exotic germ plasm in a wetland habitat. They are less than welcome additions to the flora of the state.
23312982|Three stations of Fragaria multicipita Fernald were rediscovered in the general area of the type locality along Rivire Ste.-Anne in Gasp, Qubec. This taxon has not been accepted as a species by a number of recent compilers and monographers, but the plants retained distinctive features under greenhouse cultivation suggesting that taxonomic recognition may be appropriate, although the appropriate rank is unclear. The distinctive features include small size, small almost stalkless leaflets and a multicipital, more or less runnerless caudex. The plants were confined to dry sandy or silty, open riverine bars. Study of living plants of F. multicipita may help to further elucidate the nature of endemism in northeastern North America. It will also contribute additional information relevant to the classification of strawberries, this in turn providing the information needed for optimal germplasm protection and for increasing the low genetic diversity of strawberries cultivated in North America. Where F. multicipita occurs there is substantial variation in native species of Fragaria, and in situ as well as ex situ protection is desirable.
23312988|Miconia stenobotrys, a member of section Chaenopleura, is considered to constitute a species from a phenetic as well as a phylogenetic standpoint. It occurs widely in the Cordillera Central/Massif du Nord of Hispaniola, growing mainly in forests dominated by Pinus occidentalis. The species is circumscribed broadly, including M. azuensis, M. artibotinensis, M. buchii, and M. leptoneura, as well as populations with very prominently 4-flanged stems from the Parque Nacional Jos del Carmen Ramrez/Loma la Vieja region of the Dominican Republic. A revised description and an illustration are provided, and a list of specimen citations is presented. Miconia stenobotrys is distinguished from its presumed closest relatives, i.e., M. krugii, M. samanensis, and M. zanonii, by its falcate leaves that are slightly to strongly V-folded along the midvein and distinctive elongated inflorescences. It is quite variable in several morphological features, especially in extent of development of U-shaped stem flanges, number of multicellular, long-stalked, gland-headed hairs on the stems and leaves, degree of toothing of the leaf margin, placement of secondary veins of the lamina, and flower size. However, no phenetic discontinuities were discerned among analyzed specimens, and the above listed characters often vary within populations.
23312991|Twenty-three species of Chamaesyce are presently known to grow in Florida. A new key to the Florida species is presented along with notes on taxonomically important morphological characters in the genus and a review of the various names applied to each species.
23312989|Tillandsia fasciculata var. fasciculata is recorded for the first time in Florida. It may be distinguished from the common T. fasciculata var. densispica by longer inflorescence branches and larger floral bracts.
23312987|A total of 72 seaweed taxa were recorded from the York River Estuary, Maine, including 29 Rhodophyceae, 19 Phaeophyceae and 24 Chlorophyceae. A synopsis of several distributional patterns is given, as well as floristic comparisons of the York River with two nearby open coastal sites in Maine (Cape Neddick and Sea Point) and 12 estuarine locations within New Hampshire and northern Massachusetts. In contrast to the Great Bay Estuarine System (New Hampshire/Maine) where coastal species occur upstream to approximately 8.5 miles, a relatively rapid attrition of species occurs within the York River after 23 miles, presumably due to hydrographic variability, the dominance of saltmarsh habitats and reduced availability of rocky substrata. Overall, species composition within the York River compares favorably with several mid-estuarine environments within the Great Bay Estuary as well as saltmarsh habitats of the Hampton-Seabrook Estuary System (New Hampshire). Relatively few of the "southerly" taxa common to the Great Bay Estuary are present within the York River and Hampton-Seabrook Estuary, presumably because of a lack of suitable habitat. Three floristic records of particular interest include the presence of Fucus vesiculosus megecad limicola from the York River Estuary, and the occurrence of Porphyra amplissima and Codium fragile ssp. tomentosoides from southern Maine.
23312985|Canonical variates analysis was used as an analytical technique to document morphological discontinuities among individuals of Antennaria media (n = 63), A. pulvinata (n = 103), A. rosea (n = 64) and A. umbrinella (n = 65). Evaluation of the defined classification criterion indicated that 94% of the specimens were classified correctly. The classification criterion was subsequently used to classify type collections of A. aromatica (n = 26) into one of the previously defined groups. Results based on these analyses as well as previously published information demonstrate that A. aromatica and A. pulvinata are morphologically indistinguishable. The analyses also indicate that A. pulvinata and A. rosea exhibit morphological integrity relative to each other and would best be treated as distinct species. The four species, A. media, A. pulvinata, A. rosea and A. umbrinella, exhibit morphological integrity and should be treated as distinct. A list of synonymy is provided for A. pulvinata.
23312983|Chromosome numbers are reported for 333 individuals of 109 taxa and two interspecific hybrids from among 11 genera. The vast majority of the reports are for Aster sensu lato and Solidago. Many counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; approximately one third of the counts are first reports for a taxon, or ploidy level of a taxon, in one or more of the 26 states of the eastern United States and one Canadian province sampled. The cytogeography and cytotaxonomy of the Aster pilosus, Solidago stricta and S. uliginosa complexes are discussed. The following first reports are included: Aster attenuatus, 2n = 48; A. surculosus, 2n = 36; Solidago latissimifolia, 2n = 18II, 2n = 36, 2n = 27II, 2n = 54; S. patula var. strictula, 2n = 9II; S. pulchra, 2n = 18II.
23312980|The genus Arctomecon Torr. & Frem. is reviewed, its three species, A. humilis Coville, A. californica Torr. & Frem., and A. merriamii Coville, are provided with a diagnostic key, described, and discussions of their peculiar habitat requirements and other pertinent information are included.
23312993|This paper includes the results of investigations leading to a revision of A Utah Flora by Welsh, Atwood, Goodrich, and Higgins, a publication whose first edition published in 1987 is now out of print. The following new taxa and nomenclatural combinations are proposed, based on plants from Utah and from northern Arizona: Mertensia lanceolata (Pursh) DC. var. coriacea (A. Nels.) Higgins & Welsh, comb. nov.; Arenaria rubella (Wahl) J. E. Sm. var. filiorum (Maguire) Welsh, comb. nov.; Zuckia brandegei (Gray) Welsh & Stutz var. plummeri (Stutz & Sanderson) Welsh, comb. nov.; Ambrosia sandersonii Welsh, sp. nov.; Agoseris glauca (Pursh) Raf. var. cronquistii Welsh, var. nov.; Artemisia campestris L. var. petiolata Welsh, var. nov.; Haplopappus lignumviridis Welsh, sp. nov.; Hymenoxys acaulis (Pursh) Parker var. nana Welsh, var. nov.; Senecio castoreus Welsh, sp. nov.; Senecio musiniensis Welsh, sp. nov.; Erigeron sionis Cronq. var. trilobatus (Maguire) Welsh, comb. nov.; Lygodesmia grandiflora (Nutt.) T. & G. var. doloresensis (Tomb) Welsh, comb. nov.; Lygodesmia grandiflora (Nutt.) T. & G. var. entrada (Welsh & Goodrich) Welsh, comb. nov.; Lepidium montanum Nutt. var. claronensis Welsh, var. nov.; Phacelia cronquistiana Welsh, sp. nov.; Phacelia pulchella Gray var. atwoodii Welsh, var. nov.; Astragalus toanus Jones var. scidulus Welsh & Atwood, var. nov.; Astragalus zionis Jones var. vigulus Welsh, var. nov.; Pediomelum aromaticum (Payson) W. A. Weber var. barnebyi Welsh, var. nov.; Trifolium friscanum (Welsh) Welsh, comb. nov.; Mentzelia goodrichii Thorne & Welsh, sp. nov.; Camissonia bairdii Welsh, sp. nov.; Camissonia claviformis (Torr. & Frem.) Raven var. cruciformis (Kellogg) Welsh, stat. nov.; Gilia latifolia Wats. var. imperialis Welsh, var. nov.; Eriogonum corymbosum Wats. var. albiflorum (Reveal) Welsh, comb. nov.; Eriogonum corymbosum var. atwoodii (Reveal) Welsh, comb. nov.; Eriogonum jamesii Benth. var. higginsii Welsh, var. nov.; Eriogonum racemosum Nutt. var. nobilis Welsh & Atwood, var. nov.; Aquilegia grahamii Welsh & Goodrich, sp. nov.; Penstemon franklinii Welsh, sp. nov.; Penstemon humilis Nutt. var. desereticus Welsh, var. nov.; Yucca vespertina (McKelvey) Welsh, comb. et stat. nov.; Allium geyeri Wats. var. chatterleyi Welsh, var. nov.; Spiranthes romanzoffiana Cham. var. diluvialis (Sheviak) Welsh, comb. nov.
23312986|The genus Pelexia Poit. ex Lindl. occurs in the tropics and subtropics of both Americas: from Argentina in the south to Mexico and Florida in the north. According to Garay (1982) it contains 67 species. Pelexia is distinguishable from closely related Sarcoglottis Presl by an "externally observable line of adnation" between ovary and lateral sepals. While studying herbarium materials from COL, P and S, I found some specimens which did not fit the diagnoses of any previously known species. They are described here for the first time.
23312992|William T. Gillis (193379) became interested in the Bahama flora while conducting field research for his Ph.D. His interest intensified from 1968 to 1972 during his appointment as taxonomist and herbarium curator at the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Miami, Florida, U.S.A. He made many collecting trips to the Bahama Islands, and in 1970, in collaboration with Richard A. Howard of Harvard University and George R. Proctor of the Institute of Jamaica, proposed to revise The Bahama Flora that Britton and Millspaugh had published in 1920. Although their NSF proposal was not funded, Gillis continued his work on the Bahama flora, as a Mercer Research Fellow at Harvard University, then as a Visiting Assistant Professor at Hope College, Holland, Michigan, and finally as Assistant Professor at Michigan State University, East Lansing. His publications for revisions of The Bahama Flora appeared between 1973 and 1977. Gillis' death in 1979, at the age of 45, prevented his completion of this valuable contribution to Bahamian natural history. A comprehensive summary of his contributions to the study of the Bahama flora is presented.
23312964|For nearly a century since its description, Eleocharis macounii Fernald has been known with certainty only from the type station in Qubec. It has been treated as a synonym of either Eleocharis intermedia Schultes, E. obtusa (Willd.) Schultes, E. ovata (Roth) R. & S. or E. palustris (L.) R. & S., or as a hybrid. Various quantitative and qualitative morphological features suggest that it is a hybrid involving E. intermedia in series Palustriformes and E. obtusa in series Ovatae. Eleocharis  macounii is best distinguished from sympatric species by its rhizome internodes less than 2 mm long, presence of many culms of varying lengths arising from a single tuft and pale greenish-brown achenes with prominent keels and a rough cellular surface. This natural hybrid is of particular interest since it is the first reported in the genus Eleocharis in North America, and it involves different species groups within the genus.
23312968|Isoetes prototypus Britton, an endemic of the Atlantic Maritime Ecozone of Northeastern North America, is reported for the first time in the United States from Acadia National Park, Maine. It is a rare species throughout its range, being known elsewhere (in Atlantic Canada) from only five populations. For reasons of site requirements and possibly dispersal limitations, Isoetes prototypus is unlikely to be found in the United States away from the coastal region of Maine. It warrants designation as Critically Imperiled (G1S1) throughout its range.
23312972|Cuscuta glomerata Choisy is a distinctive species largely confined to the central and midwestern prairie region. It was noted as extirpated in Ohio in 1988 (the last collection dating from 1933). Since 1989 five stations for the species in Ohio have been located. All are associated with prairie remnants which have, in recent years, been subjected to regular controlled burning. It is suggested that fire is essential to rupture the seed coat and stimulate germination.
23312965|A more than decade-long field investigation of the genus Vaucheria in Connecticut salt marshes and estuarine habitats has revealed the presence of nine species, including five species and a variety not previously known for the area: V. arcassonensis, V. compacta var. koksoakensis, V. coronata, V. intermedia, V. minuta, and V. nasuta. Culture conditions in the laboratory stimulated production of gametangia, allowing for identification of mostly vegetative field-collected samples in their native muds. All marine and brackish water species of Vaucheria previously reported from other parts of New England are now known from Long Island Sound.
23312971|A new record for the vascular flora of Colorado is reported. Subularia aquatica L. was found growing on a muddy, subalpine lake bottom in north-central Colorado during the field season of 1992. This extends its previously known range in the Southern Rocky Mountains by approximately 220 miles (354 km) to the east from the Utah localities and 270280 miles (435450 km) southeastward from its Wyoming localities.
23312969|A high level of achene sterility, non-exserted anthers, and intermediacy in qualitative and quantitative characters support the recognition of plants from the shore of Wendigo Lake in northern Ontario as Carex castanea  C. debilis, a new natural hybrid. This new taxon has prominent leaf pubescence like C. castanea, but relatively narrow leaves (less than 2.5 mm wide as in narrow-leaved specimens of C. debilis). The floral density of the spike and many other characters are more or less intermediate. This hybrid is probably scarce because of the evident edaphic isolation of its parents. A key and description are included.
23312970|Thomas Francis Lucy (18441906) was an eclectic medical doctor who devoted most of his life to studying the plants of the Susquehanna Valley, specifically the Chemung River Valley, Chemung County, New York. He also spent his later life collecting and exchanging specimens of North American plants. The main collection of the Flora of the Upper Susquehanna that he prepared for the Elmira Academy of Sciences is currently housed at ECH. Other specimens collected by Lucy are located at BH-CU, NYS, NY, F, US, and MIN. After his death, many of his North American specimens were deposited in BUF. These are currently being curated at ECH.
23312966|Vaucheria subsimplex Crouan has been collected from a salt marsh at Gloucester, Massachusetts. This report appears to be the first citation of this species in the United States, and it is the second in North America. At Gloucester, Vaucheria subsimplex and V. velutina occur as a "zone" at MHW in the mud of tidal creek banks, these algae forming gametangia throughout the summer. Ecological observations of the Gloucester material compare favorably with similar data about V. subsimplex from European and Scandinavian salt marshes.
23312973|Portulaca oleracea L. is a polyploid, cosmopolitan weed with a broad physiological adaptability. It is morphologically variable, grows rapidly, is self-compatible producing large numbers of seeds that have a long survivability. The variability is expressed in a series of local populations that exhibit clinal variation geographically. Data obtained from the literature on the biology of the species are compared to previous taxonomic interpretations in order to develop a more functional taxonomic treatment of this polymorphic species.
41784748|Eight yellow-flowered species of Sedum of the western United States, S. lanceolatum, S. borschii, S. debile, S. divergens, S. leibergii, S. radiatum, S. rupicolum, and S. stenopetalum, all have a basic chromosome number of 8 and are believed to comprise a natural group. A ninth species, S. oreganum, is cytologically distinct with n = 12, and it seems taxonomically more isolated. Sedum lanceolatum includes widespread diploids, tetraploids and hexaploids. Sedum rupicolum is tetraploid, S. stenopetalum is octoploid, and S. borschii is often (always?) irregular at meiosis and may be a polyploid hybrid. All the remaining species are diploid. Polyploidy seems to be an important isolating mechanism between taxa when plants of two or more of these species occur together.
23314299|Phyllanthus caymanensis Webster & Proctor is described from specimens collected in the Cayman Islands. This species resembles Mesoamerican species such as P. mcvaughii and P. mocinianus rather than any of the West Indian taxa of sect. Nothoclema. It is the first endemic species of sect. Nothoclema recorded from the West Indies.
23314301|Croomia pauciflora (Nuttall) Torrey is an endemic to the southeastern United States. Documented distribution includes the following states and physiographic regions: Ridge & Valley, Cumberland Plateau, Piedmont Plateau, and Gulf Coastal Plain of Alabama; Piedmont Plateau, and Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plain of Georgia; and the Gulf Coastal Plain of Florida and Louisiana. Croomia pauciflora is a rare element of the southeastern flora and is considered an "endangered" or "threatened" species in portions of its range. A neotype is designated due to the apparent loss of the single specimen cited in the original description.
23314302|Ironwood, Ostrya virginiana (Miller) K. Koch, an Alleghanian species, reaches the northeastern limit of its range in northern Nova Scotia. The species is in a vigorous condition and widely distributed in the region, but normally reflects low density of stocking. Notable silvical characteristics of ironwood in northern Nova Scotia include high tolerance, wide ecological amplitude, vitality and aggressiveness.
23314300|Chaptalia transiliens Nesom, a new species from Mexico, is described and assigned to Chaptalia sect. Leria; notes on its distribution and phenology are given.
23314303|One hundred forty-two species of Carex are recorded for Minnesota, 4 of which have not been previously reported. Because four floristic provinces converge in Minnesota, certain groups of carices tend to be associated with specific geographic areas of the state. A map is presented that divides Minnesota into 9 areas of Carex affiliation, each of which is briefly discussed. Our carices also display other, more subtle and local, distributional patterns, and we demonstrate, through various examples, that many carices are greatly affected by the nature of the substrate in which they grow. Habitat descriptions for the 142 species are given in an annotated list, and for some carices additional taxonomic, phytogeographical and ecological comments are made. Distribution maps are presented, and for the 4 carices new to the state, representative collections are noted. Doubtful and excluded taxa are indicated and discussed.
23311241|An abbreviated revision of the Mexican representatives of the genus Halenia Brckh. (Gentianaceae) is provided. Descriptions, comments and distribution data with citation of some of the examined specimens is presented for the twelve species known to occur in Mexico. Two new species, Halenia alleniana and H. crumiana, are validated.
23311242|Eighteen species of Cerastium are known to occur in Mexico and Central America, including 16 native and two alien species. The limits of these species are described and their taxonomy is revised. Three species are newly described.
23311244|Vegetation in an eastern Massachusetts freshwater cat-tail marsh was measured over a five-year period, two years before and three years after construction of a 345 kv transmission line; no change in vegetation occurred because of the construction.
23311240|Nine species, with no infraspecific taxa, are recognized in Arnica subgenus Austromontana, a group primarily restricted to montane western North America. Previous treatments, which have variously recognized several infraspecific taxa, radiate and discoid sections, and two subgenera for these nine species, are viewed as artificial. Chromosome counts, all based on x = 19, are reported for 74 populations representing seven of the species. A discussion of comparative features, phylogenetic relationships, distribution maps, descriptions, synonymies and a key to the species are presented.
23311243|A new endemic, Ziziphus celata, is described from the xerophytic scrub and pinelands of the Lake Wales Ridge in peninsular Florida. This distinctive geniculate-thorny shrub shows clear affinity with the arid, southwestern North American "Condaliopsis group" of Ziziphus, and represents a significant eastward range extension for this group. The native vegetation of the Lake Wales Ridge has been extensively destroyed, and the plant is represented only by a single specimen collected by Ray Garrett in 1948 near Sebring, Highlands County, Florida. The species is very likely now extinct.
23314632|Potamogeton hillii Morong has been considered as either a rare or endangered species in all states and provinces where it occurs. Currently it is under review by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for possible listing under the Endangered Species Act of 1973. Prior to 1960 it was collected at 25 localities. Since 1970, 78 new localities have been discovered. Throughout its range this species is mostly found in regions of limestone bedrock. Presently it is most abundant in western New England and northern Michigan, and during 1982 was relocated in Connecticut and Ohio. Potamogeton hillii appears to be spreading in the limestone regions where it presently occurs. This taxon is found growing in clear, cold waters of small streams, ponds, and beaver ponds with muddy substrates. The abundant winter buds and fruits produced apparently guarantee the continued spread of this species. Potamogeton hillii should not be considered further for protection nationally, nor should it be so listed in the states where locally abundant.
23314626|Many habitats of the text of the Flora boreali-americana of A. Michaux (1803), which is presumed to have been anonymously authored by L. C. M. Richard, have been observed to vary, sometimes drastically, from the field stations on the labels of the type specimens collected by Michaux. Since the field stations are the actual type localities rather then those given in the text, it is important to record them to promote precision in the use of the Michaux flora. A key to the IDC 6211 microfiche set of the Michaux American specimens, which are in the Paris Museum of Natural History, has been devised because the microfiches were found awkward to use. Each non-superfluous name proposed by Michaux is listed and its microfiche key designation is equivalent to an annotation of the specimen as the type.
23314628|Morphologic variation in Aristida purpurescens, A. tenuispica, and A. virgata was assessed by principal components and step-wise discriminant analyses. Although well-defined clusters corresponding to the three taxa were defined by principal component analysis (PCA), extensive morphologic overlap was also evident. Both the PCA and discriminant analyses assigned some spikelets from the same panicle to different taxa. A single morphologic species is suggested.
23314627|Ten species and one hybrid are here reported as new or from additional sites in Cape Breton Highlands National Park. The hybrid Solidago bicolor  S. canadensis is reported for the first time.
23314629|Gratiola viscidula Pennell was separated into two subspecies by Pennell (1935): G. viscidula subsp. viscidula, and G. viscidula subsp. shortii Durand ex Pennell. The latter subspecies, which was distinguished by its larger corollas, calyces, and leaves, was only known from southeastern Ohio and from an unspecified site in Kentucky. Examinations of herbarium specimens and field populations have demonstrated that the sizes of various plant parts are highly variable, both within individual populations and throughout the range of the species. Infraspecific categories are unwarranted. The chromosome number of the species is here first reported as n = 7.
23314631|Nine of 260 species of the Eurasian genus Verbascum have been reported from America; only two (V. thapsus and V. blattaria) are common. Verbascum densiflorum is well established in the U.S. only in southeast Wisconsin where it is an aggressive weed. It differs morphologically, phenologically and ecologically from either V. thapsus or V. phlomoides, the two more common species which it superficially resembles.
23314081|The hybrid Spiranthes steigeri Correll has been re-examined and found to be referable to S. ochroleuca (Rydb.) Rydb., a recently re-established species. Synonymy of the hybrid with S. ochroleuca is proposed.
23314080|The orchid genera Broughtonia R. Br., Cattleyopsis Lem. and Laeliopsis Lindl. are re-established on the basis of observations of natural populations or living material from them. The six species that comprise these genera were previously placed in the genus Broughtonia. A new combination, Cattleyopsis cubensis (Lindl.) Sauleda and Adams and a new natural hybrid, Broughtonia jamaicensis, are reported.
23314076|The first New York State records for gametophytes of the fern genus Vittaria are reported from Cattaraugus and Chautauqua Counties. The Chautauqua Co. station is only the third in a glaciated area and is the northernmost location known. The stations cited also provide the first county records in western New York for Trichomanes gametophytes.
23314075|Chromosome numbers are reported for two closely related species from the deciduous forest region of eastern North America, Stellaria pubera Michx. (2n = 30) and S. corei Shinners (2n = 60). These counts represent a new basic chromosome number of 15 for the genus Stellaria.
23314074|The herb floras of swamp forests in three of four large Connecticut River oxbows in western Massachusetts have been described and compared. The herb stratum at Hatfield includes a lush growth of annual and perennial herbs, lianas, and emergent marsh species, but no seedlings of the dominant canopy tree, Populus deltoides. Composition of the herb stratum in Ned's Ditch, Northampton, forest was found to vary markedly during four years of sampling. Seedlings of major canopy species at Ned's Ditch increased steadily through successive years while abundance of floating hydrophytes fluctuated strongly. Ferns and spring-blooming herbs predominated in the herb stratum at Whately which also contained seedlings of all canopy species. Of the herbaceous species sampled, 70% occurred only at one site. An argument is made that floodplain forest, severely limited in New England, should be more stringently protected.
23314078|A large population of Panax quinquefolium from New York is characterized by age structure, morphology, and flowering. Population dynamics are correlated with local climate, the most interesting association being the dramatic increase in population size during 1982 when monthly precipitations between January and June compared favorably with 20year averages at a time when the need for protective snow cover for seeds and optimum conditions for seed germination would apparently be paramount.
23314077|Two herbaceous plant species, Lomatogonium rotatum and Primula laurentiana, are known to occur in the United States only on the offshore islands of eastern Maine. Both species grow in full sun and in thin, circumneutral soil just above the upper splash zone of the ocean. We report new localities and discuss the overall geographic distribution for these two species.
23314079|A permanent 300-foot triangular transect was installed by H. E. Woodin in 1957 immediately above timberline on the isolated west slope of the summit cone of Mount Marcy, elevation 5334 feet, highest peak in the Adirondack Mountains of northern New York State. Re-measurement of the transect in 1981 revealed only slight change in either the floristic composition of the transect or in the percentage of arctic species present. Minor differences in data appear to be caused by different personnel performing the measurements or by sampling error inherent in the line-intercept procedures.
23314082|The annual vetches Vicia ludoviciana Nutt. ex T. & G., V. leavenworthii T. & G., V. exigua Nutt. ex T. & G., and their varieties compose the native North American V. ludoviciana complex. The center of diversity is Texas; distribution is from Alabama to California, and from northern Mexico into the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Karyotypes, artificial hybridizations, characteristics of the breeding system, and various morphological data are used with previously reported edaphic relationships and seed morphology to establish relationships reported herein. This taxonomic treatment reduces the taxa of the complex to 1 wide-ranging and variable species, consisting of 1 subspecies containing 5 geographical races, and a second subspecies containing 2 races.
23314083|A revision based on herbarium study of the six species of Kyllinga occurring in Mexico and Central America is presented. Each species is described and discussed. Distribution maps, a key to the species, and a detailed discussion of taxonomically useful characters in the genus are included.
23313510|Floristic inventories of lakes in northern Indiana have resulted in the documentation of 22 new localities for eight Indiana state-listed aquatic plant species. Six of these eight species are listed as endangered (Bidens beckii, Myriophyllum pinnatum, Najas gracillima, Potamogeton epihydrus, P. pulcher, and P. vaseyi) and two are listed as extirpated (Lemna valdiviana and P. bicupulatus). Many of these species are listed in other states within the Great Lakes region. Each species is discussed in terms of notable characters useful in identification, historical and current information on distribution, and notes on the ecology and species associates for each new site record. Possible explanations for the rarity of these aquatic plant species are discussed in terms of habitat loss, undercollecting, and the "Prairie Peninsula" concept. A brief discussion of problems associated with aquatic plant conservation in the state of Indiana is provided.
23313509|Two hundred and thirty-six species and hybrids of vascular plants are listed as new records for Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and twenty-four of these taxa constitute new Ohio records. Three taxa are first reported for North America. Approximately 39% of the 236 taxa are native to the northeastern United States. Twenty listed species are designated by the Ohio Division of Natural Areas and Preserves as presumed extirpated, endangered, threatened, or potentially threatened, collectively. The abundance of new records is surprising and explanations are proposed.
23313511|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Myriophyllum L. (Haloragaceae) from China is presented. The distribution patterns of the species are generalized. Seven species have traditionally been recorded from China: M. aquaticum, M. dicoccum, M. humile, M. spicatum, M. tetrandrum, M. ussuriense, and M. verticillatum. Previous identifications of M. humile are incorrect and the species that occurs in China is M. dicoccum. Specimens previously assigned to "M. spicatum" can better be assigned to two distinct taxa, M. spicatum sensu stricto and M. sibiricum. Newly recorded species are: M. alterniflorum, M. heterophyllum, M. oguraense, M. sibiricum, and M. tuberculatum. Comments, descriptions, additional notes, specimen citations, distribution, diagnoses, and a key for the Chinese taxa of Myriophyllum are provided. The native species of this genus exhibit both strong warm/cool temperate affinities and tropical affinities. Four distribution patterns are generalized as follows: 1. Old World Tropics (3 species), 2. Old World Temperate (1 species), 3. North Temperate (4 species), and 4. East Asia endemics (1 species).
23313508|I recorded the extant vascular flora of Worcester, Massachusetts in seven years of field work beginning in 1994 and obtained historical records from herbarium specimens and the published literature. A detailed vascular flora of the City was published elsewhere. This paper updates the flora with information from an important and previously overlooked collection of specimens, and examines the apparent historic losses of native species in relation to habitat and taxonomy. Overall species losses were about 18% in the past century. Losses were particularly high among species associated with aquatic habitats, bogs, and calcareous or circumneutral terrestrial habitats. I suggest that the first of these reflects extensive alteration of many bodies of water through siltation, chemical pollution, eutrophication, and stream channelization. Losses in the remaining two habitat types may reflect the initial rarity of such habitats within the City combined with habitat destruction. Losses were especially high in several families, including the Orchidaceae, Ophioglossaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Menyanthaceae, Lentibulariaceae, and Lamiaceae. High losses of aquatic and bog species have been noted in other areas, and high losses among orchids appear to be nearly universal. A combination of changing land use, habitat fragmentation, successional changes, species introductions, and climate changes are likely to cause further species losses in the decades ahead.
23313545|Boltonia decurrens (Asteraceae), a plant species endemic to the Illinois River Valley, is threatened with extinction. Alterations of the hydrologic regime of the river have resulted in habitat loss and population decline. Lack of information about the complex life cycle of this species frustrates efforts to develop an effective recovery plan. An essential part of any recovery plan is an understanding of seed germination, seedling recruitment, and early growth, and how each contributes to the maintenance of a population. In B. decurrens, the dimorphic achenes have different masses and may provide different dispersal mechanisms. This study examined the effect of achene morphology and mass on seed germination and early seedling growth of B. decurrens under controlled environmental conditions. There was no difference in timing of germination of disk and ray achenes in B. decurrens; however, there was a distinct difference in early growth of seedlings derived from disk versus ray achenes and from larger ray achenes compared to smaller ones. Disk achenes, which produced seedlings with more leaf area during the first 10-15 days, may provide a competitive advantage over those produced by ray achenes. Since leaf area and photosynthetic rates are closely correlated, seedlings with more leaf area early in their development may also be more competitive with seedlings of other species.
23313548|A floristic inventory of the vascular plants of Manatee Springs State Park in Levy County, Florida, was conducted from May 1996 to December 1998. In the 933 ha (2305 acres) park, a total of 360 species was found. The vascular flora comprised 8 ferns, 1 cycad, 6 conifers, and 345 angiosperm species representing 90 families and 241 genera. Twelve natural communities are recognized in the park in addition to ruderal and developed areas: upland mixed forest, xeric hammock, sinkhole, sinkhole lake, swamp lake, basin swamp, bottomland forest, depression marsh, floodplain swamp, floodplain forest, blackwater stream, and spring-run stream.
23313546|We conducted experimental pollination and seed germination trials with Platanthera leucophaea, a threatened north temperate grassland orchid species for which propagation and restoration are important conservation needs. Our objectives were to determine how the species' breeding system and modes of pollination interact to affect production of viable seed and seed germination, and how seed germination responds to stratification and to inoculation by mycorrhizal fungi. Outcrossing by hand pollination produced a higher percentage of viable seed than did natural pollination, as did outcrossing between populations in comparison to outcrossing or selfing within populations, indicating a facultative outcrossing breeding system. Outcrossing also enhanced percent germination, which was positively correlated with the percentage, but not number, of viable seeds. A 16 wk. stratification period resulted in significantly higher percent germination than 8 wk. stratification or no stratification. Germination was further enhanced by inoculation with a mycorrhizal fungus (Ceratorhiza sp.) isolated from P. leucophaea. These results indicate that the breeding system of P. leucophaea allows for greater numbers of viable seeds with greater germination rates when plants are outcrossed. Thus, hand pollination and outcrossing can enhance propagation and restoration efforts, especially when coupled with scarification and stratification treatments that maximize germination rates.
23313547|The protologue of Myrica caroliniensis is more than adequate to identify it as depicting the bayberry ranging at least from southern New Jersey to Florida and westward into eastern Texas. That species has been mostly known for the past half century as M. heterophylla. The alleged differences between the commonly recognized and more northern populations known most recently as M. pensylvanica (presumably ranging from Newfoundland at least into northeastern North Carolina) are that the southern elements have more persistent to even evergreen leaves and lack the minute trichomes on both the hardened fruit wall and the young glandular projections or papillae that completely cover the young to just maturing fruit of the northern representatives. The pubescence on the fruit cannot be readily detected on mature fruit due to its heavy deposit of wax. The alleged differences, which seem to be more like tendencies than sharply delineated differences, are not of specific significance any more than those suggested between the northern and southern populations of Magnolia virginiana. The name for the bayberry that ranges from Newfoundland south into Florida and westward into eastern Texas should therefore be Myrica caroliniensis, the binomial by which it was known throughout most of the nineteenth century. It has been rather conclusively demonstrated that the waxy fruited, papillate species ought to be placed in the genus Morella, clearly separate from the genus Myrica with the latter's smooth, non-papillate, non-waxy nutlet.
23313573|Desmodium humifusum, one of the rarest members of the New England flora, always occurs with two conspecifics, D. paniculatum and D. rotundifolium, and a hybrid origin for D. humifusum has been proposed. Protein (allozyme) electrophoresis was used to test this hypothesis. Allozyme data demonstrated that the extant D. humifusum populations totaled eight genetic individuals rather than the 100+ previously estimated. The Rogers genetic similarity between the putative parental species was 0.797 and they were fixed for different alleles at a single locus, Tpi-1. All but one individual of D. humifusum were heterozygous at this locus, combining alleles unique to both of the putative parental species. Desmodium humifusum exhibited excess heterozygosity (relative to Hardy-Weinberg expectations), in sharp contrast to the consistent heterozygote deficiency in the parental species. Desmodium humifusum consists of both F1 interspecific hybrids, as well as later-generation hybrids; introgression between the parental species was not obvious.
23313575|Flowers of Limonium carolinianum are harvested for use in dried flower arrangements and various crafts. The increasing commercialization of this harvest has led to concerns regarding its sustainability. We quantified the extent of the harvest on four marshes on the Bay of Fundy coast of Nova Scotia, Canada. Over a four-year period from 1996 to 1999, flower stalk removal averaged 32% on easily accessible portions of these marshes (i.e., within 100 m of a road) compared to 5% on inaccessible portions (greater than 500 m from a road). In 5  5 m plots where flowers were experimentally removed, no seedlings emerged the following year, whereas seedlings always emerged in unpicked control plots. This rapid and dramatic impact of localized harvesting on seedling emergence is due to the limited dispersal and short life span of L. carolinianum seeds. Sampling in concentric circles around isolated adults revealed that 50% of seedlings emerged within 34 cm of the parent and 90% emerged within 61 cm. Tethered seed experiments revealed that seeds that did not germinate in the first spring after production did not survive to the next spring. Our results suggest that unregulated harvesting has the potential to dramatically impact recruitment into local populations. To reduce the likelihood of local extinction we recommend that harvesters do not reduce flower stalk densities below 1 per m2.
23313572|Five vascular plant surveys have been made between 1873 and 1999 on Penikese, one of the Elizabeth Islands (Massachusetts). The five surveys have noted a total of 326 species, the most recent survey, 218 species. Almost half of the species noted are alien on all five survey lists. Four rare (state-listed) native species were found in 19981999. The most significant change in the island's vegetation over 125 years is the great increase in woody vines and shrubs following cessation of the farming that stripped the island of its presettlement forest. Fifteen woody species, some of them recent introductions, are thought to be increasing. Two of the island's pondsTubs and Southare brackish, supratidal pools without vascular plants. Four pondsNorth, Leper, Tern, and Typhaare fresh, shallow, and usually dry up annually, at which time their bottoms support a dense, diverse flora. Salt marsh species and numbers are fewer than formerly. There is evidence that the island as plant habitat is drier than in the past, perhaps as a result of the increase in woody vegetation. For instance, ferns, once common on Penikese, are now almost wholly absent. Certain species common on nearby islands are missing; for instance, no blueberries or other ericads are found on Penikese. In the absence of further disturbance, it is possible that Penikese will again become forested with red cedar (Juniperus virginiana) as a presettlement account of 1602 describes it, but island-wide burns are suggested for destroying invasive woody plants and encouraging native grasses. Such burns might also restore former tern-nesting sites to usefulness.
23313574|Described as new is Astragalus pulsiferae var. coronensis. This new variety is distinguished by its superficial root crown and longer pod trichomes, as well as by more subtle differences in the type of internode pubescence. In addition, the stipules in the new variety are all distinct, correlating with the above-ground stem.
23313534|Previous studies have demonstrated the ability of the alga Vaucheria to survive prolonged and stressful periods of desiccation and freezing. However, even during harsh New England winters, the top few centimeters of floodplain alluvium or stream bank mud, where Vaucheria is often found, experience repeated thawing and refreezing events. Muds from two Connecticut riparian sites known to contain propagules from as many as eight species of Vaucheria were collected in spring and summer, then subjected to a variety of freeze/thaw (F/T) cycles. Six species of VaucheriaV. aversa, V. frigida, V. geminata, V. prona, V. taylorii, and V. undulatahave demonstrated survival tolerance to multiple F/T cycles of intervals from 110 days.
23313533|In Qubec (Canada), one of the most recently introduced exotic wetland plants is European water-horehound (Lycopus europaeus). The first specimens were discovered in 1963 near Montral. In this study, we used herbarium specimens and conducted field surveys to reconstruct the history of the invasion of European water-horehound in Qubec, and to accurately determine its current northeastern distribution. Few European water-horehound specimens were collected before 1970. However, between 1970 and 1974, the range of European water-horehound expanded 380 km northeastward from Sorel to Trois-Pistoles River. In 1999, the northeastern distribution limit of European water-horehound was at Bic Provincial Park, 65 km northeast of Trois-Pistoles River. Between 1963 and 1974, European water-horehound spread rapidly along the St. Lawrence River (45 km/yr.), which was probably related to the fact that seeds remain viable after floating. Between 1974 and 1999, it spread more slowly to the northeast of Trois-Pistoles River (3 km/yr.). The limited range expansion of European water-horehound in eastern Qubec between 1974 and 1999 suggests that the salinity of surface waters, and more particularly the scarcity of coastal or riverine marshes east of Rimouski, prevented populations from establishing in the estuarine part of the St. Lawrence River.
23313532|Thomas Walter was the first post-Linnaean author of a sizable flora in eastern North America. As such, the Flora Caroliniana is an important hallmark in the botanical history of the United States. This paper is intended to be the first of a series of commentaries on the plants included in Walter's Flora Caroliniana. The present paper analyzes the thirteen species of oak (Quercus) reported by Walter as occurring in the approximately fifty square miles surrounding his plantation on the south bank of the Santee River some 45 miles northwest of Charleston. Walter's thirteen oak binomials with their current equivalents are as follows: (1) Q. sempervirens Walter = Q. virginiana Mill.; (2) Q. phellos L. = Q. phellos L.; (3) Q. humilis Walter non Mill. = Q. incana W. Bartram; (4) Q. pumila Walter [There is no type specimen and the brief description is in flagrant conflict with the species that has borne the binomial for the past 213 years. A new species (Q. elliottii) is proposed to replace the misapplied name of Walter]; (5) Q. prinus L. [a previously suggested "ambiguous name" soon to be formally proposed for rejection; Walter's plant is Q. michauxii Nutt.]; (6) Q. nigra sensu Walter, non L. = Q. marilandica Mnchh.; (7) Q. aquatica Walter = Q. nigra L.; (8) Q. rubra sensu Walter, non L. = Q. falcata Michx.; (9) Q. laevis Walter = Q. laevis Walter; (10) Q. alba L. = Q. alba L.; (11) Q. lyrata Walter = Q. lyrata Walter; (12) Q. sinuata Walter [identity uncertain]; (13) Q. villosa Walter = Q. stellata Wangenh.
23313531|Sequences of the internal transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships within Stewartia. Eighteen samples were included representing two species of Hartia, seven species of Stewartia, and Franklinia alatamaha. Hartia sinensis and H. villosa form a clade that is the sister group of Stewartia. Within Stewartia the New World and the Old World species form well-supported clades. The subgenera and sections of Stewartia proposed by previous authors are not supported by our ITS data. Two clades are recognized within the Old World lineage: S. serrata + S. rostrata and S. pseudocamellia + S. monadelpha + S. sinensis. Southeastern Asia and China may be a recent center of diversification of Stewartia based on the ITS phylogeny and fossil record.
23313536|A synopsis of the three species of Fernaldia, a genus of Neotropical Apocynaceae restricted to Central America, is presented here. A summary of descriptive morphology, specific relationships, and synonymy is provided.
23313535|A synopsis of the three species of the genus Laubertia (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae, Echiteae) is presented here. Keys, descriptions, distributional data, and taxonomic index are provided.
23313522|Four live clones of the rare hybrid lycopod, Diphasiastrum complanatum  digitatum, have been located and studied in northern New England. This plant is described and a binomial provided.
23313523|A new combination is provided for the hybrid between Polygonum cuspidatum and P. sachalinense. The hybrid, Polygonum bohemicum (J. Chrtek & A. Chrtkov) P. F. Zika & A. L. Jacobson, comb. nov., is widespread and invasive across North America. We illustrate the parents and hybrid, and supply a key to distinguish the three taxa.
23313519|Dahlia hjertingii, a new species from the State of Hidalgo, Mxico, is described and illustrated. Although in some aspects morphologically similar to the allopatric and purple-rayed D. tubulata, this new dahlia is distinct biochemically and genetically. With the addition of D. hjertingii, there is an increased recognition that the mountainous State of Hidalgo and adjacent areas is the region of greatest diversification among the purple-rayed dahlias. Se provee una descripcin e illustracin de Dahlia hjertingii, una nueva especie del estado de Hidalgo, Mxico. A pesar de ser similar en algunos aspectos morfolgicos a la aloptrica de D. tubulata con lgulas moradas, esta nueva especie de dlia se diferencia de por caractersticas bioqumicas y genticas. Con la adicin de D. hjertingii, existe un mayor reconocimiento de que la regon del estado montaoso de Hidalgo y las reas adyacentes es de mayor diversificacin de dlias con lgulas moradas.
23313520|Phylogenetic analyses of the five extant species of Chamaecyparis (Cupressaceae) based on nrDNA ITS sequences yield a single most parsimonious tree in which C. pisifera (Japan) and C. formosensis (Taiwan) form a clade that is sister to a clade including C. lawsoniana (western North America) and C. obtusa (Japan and Taiwan) plus C. thyoides (eastern North America). Dispersal-vicariance analyses (DIVA) suggest a minimum of two dispersal events between eastern Asia and North America.
23313525|Agalinis kingsii (Scrophulariaceae) is a rare Grand Cayman species that is poorly known taxonomically and ecologically. Sampling in 1999 suggested that approximately 43,000 individuals occurred within a single 500,000 m2 sedge wetland habitat in the Salina Reserve and that approximately 500 plants occurred in a 9 m2 location in the Central Mangrove Wetland. For every tenth individual located during the population count in the Salina Reserve, vegetation community associations, environmental parameters, and individual morphology were noted. Based on the findings, we suggest that rarity is a consequence of habitat availability. Since both populations were found within a narrow geographic and ecological range, we conclude that this species may be sensitive to extinction via a stochastic event.
23313524|Mud Pond peatland (Moultonborough, New Hampshire) is an approximately 12 ha wetland with a flora that consists of 124 vascular plant species, representing 46 families. Among the flora of Mud Pond peatland were two New Hampshire Endangered species (Arethusa bulbosa and Carex diandra), one New Hampshire Threatened species (Lysimachia thrysiflora), and four New Hampshire Species of Special Concern (Calopogon tuberosus, Platanthera blephariglottis, Pogonia ophioglossoides, and Sarracenia purpurea). During field reconnaissance, the vegetation of Mud Pond peatland was qualitatively classified as follows: Nuphar variegataNymphaea odorata (aquatic), Carex lasiocarpa (sedge fringe), Vaccinium oxycoccosSarracenia purpurea (Sphagnum lawn), Picea marianaCarex trisperma (muskeg), Chamaedaphne calyculata (ericaceous scrub), Typha latifoliaCarex lacustris (marsh), and Nemopanthus mucronatusCalamagrostis canadensis (lagg) communities. Based primarily on vegetation and basin characteristics, Mud Pond peatland can tentatively be classified as a Sphagnum-dominated poor fen.
23313521|Over 90 species of herbaceous dicotyledonous plants, representing 62 genera and 19 families, were recorded in blossom from northern Nova Scotia, Canada, during November and December 2001. Most observations were made during 1012 November, but 29 species were in flower after 10 December. The number of species flowering declined steadily with time, rather than declining precipitously after the first frost. Only 6 of these 92 species are specifically reported in the floras of Nova Scotia as flowering in November. Examination of plant collections in the primary Nova Scotia herbaria showed that our collections represent the latest flowering records for all but one of these species in Nova Scotia. Accordingly, our collection extends the known flowering times for these species by an average of 45 days. For most species the late flowering is interpreted as an extension of normal phenology in response to unusually warm autumn weather, but for some species (e.g., Viola cucullata, Ranunculus acris, Fragaria virginiana) it appears to represent a second flowering period. Our collections establish a base line of late flowering times that could be used as an indicator of regional climate change.
23313560|Platanthera dilatata (Orchidaceae) is a morphologically variable species encompassing three varieties: dilatata, albiflora, and leucostachys. Spur length and geographic distribution are commonly used to distinguish the varieties, but these characters overlap and are not useful for distinguishing the taxa in all instances. In this study, taxonomic boundaries within P. dilatata are reevaluated using variation in 16 morphological traits, six ISSR primers, four RAPD primers, and RFLPs of two chloroplast regions. Morphological, ISSR, and RAPD markers revealed groupings that loosely corresponded to the three recognized varieties, but there was a substantial amount of overlap among the taxa, and no markers alone reliably distinguished the varieties. Some variation was detected in the two chloroplast regions, but it did not correspond well with taxonomy or geography. These data also revealed a surprisingly strong degree of divergence between eastern and western populations of var. dilatata at ISSR and RAPD loci, but not in morphological or chloroplast markers. Collectively, these results suggest a relatively recent divergence among the three varietis and among populations of var. dilatata. Furthermore, these taxa are likely still in a very active state of evolution due to a combination of geographic isolation and selection by pollinators. Because each of the varieties is generally distinguishable by a set of floral traits and molecular markers, their recognition at the subspecific level is supported. Taxonomic revision within var. dilatata is not recommended until morphological and molecular variation is examined in populations throughout its range.
23313559|Populations of apogamous, tetraploid plants of the beech fern genus, Phegopteris, have been discovered in northern New England, prompting an investigation of their putative origin as a hybrid between apogamous, triploid P. connectilis and sexual, diploid P. hexagonoptera. The present study combined evidence from morphometric analysis and isozyme electrophoresis to determine if P. hexagonoptera and P. connectilis both contribute to the tetraploid genome. Fifteen morphological characters and six gene loci representing five enzyme systems were evaluated. While our results reveal an affinity between the genomes of P. connectilis and the tetraploid Phegopteris, they do not support P. hexagonoptera as a progenitor of the apogamous tetraploid lineage.
23313564|Twenty-one species and seven hybrids of vascular plants are listed as new records for Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and fourteen taxa of vascular plants, including two found outside of Cuyahoga County, constitute new Ohio records. One species is first reported for North America. Approximately 37 percent of the 30 taxa are native to the northeastern United States. Five species are designated by the Ohio Division of Natural Areas and Preserves as endangered, threatened, or added, collectively.
23313561|Podostemum ceratophyllum shows peculiar architectural characters that seem to apply to basal members of Podostemoideae. In contrast to more elaborate taxa of this subfamily, P. ceratophyllum fits into the classical root-shoot (CRS) model, with clearly distinguishable thread-like roots (with root caps and endogenous lateral roots), as well as stems and leaves. Root-born endogenous shoots initially develop a series of distichous leaves having one stipular sheath each. Shoot modules are terminated by double-sheathed leaves associated with stem branching and/or flower formation. Double-sheathed leaves of P. ceratophyllum have two boat-shaped stipular sheaths, each one containing a new leaf (as part of a daughter shoot) or a flower bud. Double-sheathed leaves are an evolutionary novelty of Podostemoideae, leading to branching types not known elsewhere in angiosperms. The vegetative architecture of P. ceratophyllum is similar to other American species of Podostemum.
23313563|New localities are reported for three cycad species in Mexico. Ceratozamia miqueliana was found in montane rainforest in western Chiapas and C. norstogii was found in dry tropical oak forest mixed with elements of seasonally dry tropical forest in eastern Oaxaca. Zamia splendens was found on karstic topography in lowland tropical rainforest in the hills of southern Tabasco. The additional data are encouraging regarding prospective survival of the species, but small population sizes make them vulnerable to any habitat disturbance.
23313562|A floristic survey of Needham, Mass. was undertaken in 20002002 to compare the floristic diversity of this suburban community with a checklist of the flora compiled in 1885 by a local naturalist and to identify patterns and potential causes of change in floristic biodiversity. I found a modern flora of 628 species, of which 32% are introduced. Although the total number of species remained fairly constant (691 species were present in 1885), 43.5% of the native species, including 73 genera and 12 families, have been extirpated. The largest changes in the diversity of native species occurred in the Orchidaceae, with the loss of 85% of the species, and the ferns and other cryptogamic groups, with the loss of 50% of the species, including all taxa in the Ophioglossaceae. Of the extant species, 43% are restricted to one or two sites, and are considered at risk of extirpation. The change in biodiversity appears most closely correlated with the loss of open pasture habitats as a result of both development and succession to shrub or tree-dominated communities.
23313587|The invasive Asiatic green alga Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides, which was introduced to the northwestern Atlantic in eastern Long Island Sound, New York during 1957, has recently colonized several parts of the Gulf of Maine via two invasion sites: (1) mid-coastal Maine at Boothbay Harbor after transplantation of Long Island oysters (1964); and (2) southern Massachusetts as a result of the expansion of attached plants from the Cape Cod Canal (1969) into nearby Cape Cod Bay (1972). Because of its warm-water affinities, southern New England populations initially expanded more rapidly than northern ones, becoming particularly invasive in shallow subtidal habitats. By contrast, the Boothbay Harbor populations were rather "quiescent," long-lived, and circumscribed until the early 1970s. After a buildup of significant biomass, extensive fragmentation and drifting occurred via strong south-flowing currents; thereafter, Codium colonized mid-coastal Maine, New Hampshire, and northern Massachusetts. Currently, the Casco Bay area just south of Boothbay Harbor has the highest number of invasion sites, particularly at offshore islands. Attached populations are limited to a few contiguous sites just north of Boothbay Harbor, with only drift specimens occurring in "Downeast" Maine. Recent introductions have also been recorded in the Canadian Maritime Provinces, both within the Atlantic (1989) and the Gulf of St. Lawrence (1996) shorelines. Thus, the species' expansion in the northwestern Atlantic has involved multiple introductions, different vectors (shellfish and vessels), dispersal by major south-flowing currents, and differential viability/abundance of in situ populations due to varying hydrographic and exposure conditions. In comparing a series of permanent study sites in southern Maine and New Hampshire during 1982 to 2001, Codium increased from one to 26 sites during 19 years, with the most evident expansion between 19961998. A comparison of several demographic features (length, weight, density, biomass, and percent occurrence) for six Codium populations ranging from mid-coastal Maine to New Hampshire showed that outer estuarine and nearshore open coastal plants were smaller and had more limited densities and biomass than those found at warmer offshore insular sites like Star Island, New Hampshire. Codium is now the dominant canopy species in some southern Maine and New Hampshire locations, extending to 8 m below mean low water; it occurs in both disturbed sites (e.g., former urchin barrens) and established kelp beds at sheltered and exposed locations. The Asiatic red alga Neosiphonia (= Polysiphonia) harveyi, which is the dominant epiphyte on Codium, is also exhibiting a rapid expansion in this same geography. Drifting populations of Codium may be a good vector for its introduction, as well as for several other epiphytes. Another aspect of the invasion of Codium into the Gulf of Maine is the spread of the introduced bryozoan Membranipora membranacea, which is common on kelps but appears to be exhibiting enhanced survival on Codium because of its perennial growth pattern and lack of epibiontic sloughing.
23313588|The island of Martha's Vineyard lies in the western Atlantic Ocean off the southwest corner of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. The island's marine algal populations have been the subject of intermittent study for approximately 130 years, most intensively in the last 40 years. Four herbaria known to contain specimens collected at the island were examined, and a bibliographical search for additional collections was made. The 155 documented species found by this process are listed with notes on habitat, abundance, and seasonality. Thus, 39% of the 396 species known between the Strait of Belle Isle and northern New Jersey have been found at Martha's Vineyard. A second list is included of 24 additional species that are known to occur within ten miles of the Martha's Vineyard shoreline and that can be expected to be found there with additional field work. Brief comparisons are made between the Vineyard marine flora and those of the more boreal floras of New Hampshire, coastal Maine, and New Brunswick, Canada.
23313589|This study examines the phylogenetic relationships of the nine Silene species endemic to eastern North America using nuclear ITS and chloroplast trnL intron sequence data. The ITS region is highly variable among taxa and is more phylogenetically informative than the less variable trnL intron DNA data. The ITS sequences indicate that the eastern North American taxa are not monophyletic, but instead occur in two clades that are nested within a clade including western species. Silene section Occidentales is also not monophyletic. The diverse floral morphologies of the eastern North American Silene appear to be evolutionarily labile. Neither floral morphology nor pollinator syndromes are conserved within clades. Both ITS and trnL intron data indicate that the hummingbird-pollinated taxa are not monophyletic. There is weak evidence for differences in the nuclear and chloroplast phylogenies that may be a result of reticulate evolution.
23313480|We support Kergulen's (1977, 1987) assertion that both Lamarck (1798) and Willdenow (1809) independently published the identical name Panicum geniculatum and that P. Beauvois (1812) based his Setaria geniculata on Willdenow's name. The type collections of Lamarck's and Willdenow's names are different, but were from the same locality and belong to the same species. Willdenow's name, which is traced to Vahl's unpublished manuscript, is a later homonym, is illegitimate, and cannot serve as a basionym. Because of the illegitimacy of P. geniculatum Willd., S. geniculata is treated as a nom. nov. with its priority from 1812. Cenchrus parviflorus Poir. (1804) is the earliest legitimate name available for this species, and therefore, S. parviflora (Poir.) Kergulen (1987) is recognized.
23313481|The genus Cladrastis (Sophora group, Sophoreae, Papilionoideae, Leguminosae) occurs in the southeastern United States, China, and Japan, having an eastern North Americaeastern Asia disjunct distributional pattern. It comprises trees with alternate, imparipinnate leaves with alternate leaflets, lateral buds enclosed in the base of the petiole, and white flowers in paniculate inflorescences that may be erect or pendulous. A phenetic analysis of morphological characters was conducted on a subset of the 600 herbarium specimens examined from 26 herbaria worldwide. The resulting phenogram of vegetative specimens showed 4 clusters of specimens. Further analysis using flowering specimens indicated two additional clusters. Comparing these clusters with type specimens resulted in recognition of six taxa: Cladrastis platycarpa, C. kentukea, C. wilsonii, C. delavayi, C. shikokiana, and one new species, C. chingii.
23313484|The Amaranthus spp. collections from the largest Canadian herbaria were reviewed and a conspectus was prepared. The genus is represented in Canada by 14 species (eight naturalized, four cultivated, and two rare adventive) and by six hybrids. New records for the Canadian flora include: Amaranthus caudatus, A. powellii subsp. bouchonii, A. hybridus subsp. quitensis, A. blitum subsp. emarginatus, A. tricolor, A. powellii  A. hybridus, A. powellii  A. tuberculatus, and A. albus  A. blitoides. The presence of the previously reported dioecious species A. palmeri and A. cannabinus is not confirmed by herbarium material. The taxonomy of the most problematic taxa is discussed and a key is provided for all Canadian species and subspecies. Morphology of fruits, seeds, and pollen belonging to A. albus and A. californicus was compared and their taxonomic relationship discussed. The infraspecific variability of A. tuberculatus was analyzed and a new nomenclatural combination proposedA. tuberculatus var. rudis.
23313482|Paspalum pilosum and P. peregrinum are members of the informal Decumbentes group of Paspalum, and grow from Mexico and Mesoamerica to Brazil and Bolivia in South America. Paspalum pilosum is characterized by its erect to decumbent culms, glabrous to pilose sheaths and blades, one or two racemes in terminal inflorescences, glabrous spikelets arranged in pairs in 2 irregular series on the rachis, dimorphic lower glumes in the pair of spikelets, longitudinally sulcate lower lemmas, and glabrous gynoecium. Paspalum peregrinum has sheaths and blades densely pilose, racemes occasionally branched, hairy spikelets arranged in 1 to 4 series on the rachis, and a hairy gynoecium. These modifications in the morphology of P. peregrinum are due to a fungal infection. Another species, Thrasya venezuelana, known only from the type collection, is the same taxon as P. peregrinum. We conclude that P. peregrinum and T. venezuelana are in fact abnormal specimens of P. pilosum, whose morphology is modified by the fungal infection. Therefore, both species are reduced to the synonymy of P. pilosum. This constitutes two new incidents of erroneous interpretation of abnormal morphology caused by fungi, and the first in the tribe Paniceae.
23313483|The scientific name of Bristly Greenbrier, a widespread species in eastern North America, has been unsettled for at least the past six decades with Smilax tamnoides and S. hispida both strongly competing for acceptance in scores of books, papers, and checklists. Neither binomial as currently employed can withstand nomenclatural scrutiny. The correct name determined in the present study is S. hispida Raf., a binomial with three years priority over S. hispida Muhl. ex Torrey.
23311067|Certains aspects pertinents de la biologie et de l'cologie de deux espces d'Aster de l'Est de l'Amrique du Nord: A. acuminatus (espce de sous-bois frais), A. nemoralis (espce de tourbire  sphaigne) et de leur hybride A.  blakei ont t analyses dans le contexte de leurs adaptations  leurs milieux respectifs. Cette analyse permet de mieux comprendre la distribution gographique actuelle de chacun des taxons en fonction de l'histoire post-glaciaire du nord-est amricain et du Qubec. Pertinent aspects of the biology and ecology of two north american species of Aster: A. acuminatus (a forest species), A. nemoralis (a sphagnum-bog species) and their hybrid A.  blakei are analysed in relation to their adaptations to contrasting environments. This analysis gives a better framework for the understanding of present geographic distribution of the taxa in relation to post glacial events in north-eastern America.
23314107|The cytology and distribution of Gymnocarpium robertianum (Hoffm.) Newman and G. jessoense (Koidz.) Koidz. subsp. parvulum Sarvela in North America are presented, together with the distinguishing features of these two species. Gymnocarpium robertianum is confirmed as a tetraploid species with n=80 and the newly recognized G. jessoense subsp. parvulum also has n=80.
23311008|Detailed descriptions. The pollen morphology of the seven species of maple (genus Acer, family Aceraceae) indigenous to New England is described. The species included are Acer pensylvanicum L., A. rubrum L., A, spicatum Lam., A. negundo L., A. saccharinum L., A. nigrum Michx. f., and A. saccharum Marsh. Detailed descriptions for the species are based on both scanning electron and light microscope observations. The morphological characteristics and classification of the pollen grains of the New England species are discussed in comparison with the observations of previous workers. Size ranges, Polar axis/Equatorial axis ratios (P/E), and Polar Area indices are summarized. Photomicrographs from both light and scanning electron microscopes are included for each species.
23312935|Polystichum alfarii (Christ) Barr. is here recognized as a species with a wide disjunction from the montane regions of northern Mesoamerica to the mountains of Costa Rica and Panama. Morphological circumscription and a meiotic chromosome number of n = 41 bivalents are provided. Comparison of habitat and distribution with other Central American species of Polystichum suggests that the 620 km disjunction of P. alfarii, noteworthy for a lower-altitude Polystichum species in Mesoamerica, is related to its unique preference for seasonally dry forests at altitudes between 1300 and 1700 m.
23312936|A population of putative hybrids between Arisaema triphyllum (L.) Schott subsp. stewardsonii (Britt.) Huttleston and A. dracontium (L.) Schott (Araceae) was found in a disturbed floodplain forest in Hampshire County, Northampton, MA in late spring, 1988. The hybrids are intermediate between the parental species in leaflet number, spadix length, spathe length, and somatic chromosome number. They also exhibit apparent hybrid vigor and occur in a near-classic example of a hybrid habitat.
23312937|The tribe Vernonieae is surveyed in continuation of the preliminary reviews of the Asteraceae of the Guianas (Guyana, Suriname, Cayenne), South America. Nineteen species are listed in 15 genera. The genus Xiphochaeta is resurrected from the synonymy of Stilpnopappus for the northern South American species commonly known as S. viridis. Elongate raphids in the achene are emphasized as a character relating Xiphochaeta to Lepidaploa.
23312941|A new combination is provided for a Scutellaria and an Engelmannia. A name change in Mimulus is explained.
23312942|Two significant additions have been made to the native vascular flora of Newfoundland as a result of explorations on the Great Northern Peninsula: Cardamine bellidifolia L. and Salix cordata Michx.
23312940|Three sympatric species of peatland orchids were investigated for differences in their ability to partition microhabitats. Species distributions at the study sites reflected differences in the hydrology and microtopography, indicating microhabitat partitioning. Pogonia was restricted to the wettest areas while Calopogon and Arethusa were found on drier sites.
23312938|The four species of Section Sedastrum appear to comprise a natural group, but studies of 92 collections show three different basic chromosome numbers: n = 20 in Sedum ebracteatum and S. hemsleyanum, n = 25 in S. hintonii, and n = 31 in S. glabrum. The first two species are very similar and possibly should be treated as the same. Most plants of these two species are polyploids, up to n = ca. 140. Many of the high polyploids are irregular at meiosis and probably reduced in sexual fertility. No clues are evident that suggest how these different basic numbers evolved.
23312915|Taxonomy provides the basis for rare species protection by defining and naming the taxa eligible for listing and by providing biological information critical to plant protection. As endangered species laws become stronger (or more restrictive, depending on the point of view), it will become increasingly important that lists of endangered species be based on a solid scientific foundation and incorporate correct nomenclature. These factors are also important on a regional basis and facilitate coordinated interstate plant protection efforts. However, an examination of endangered species lists in the New England states has shown that 30% of the listed names demonstrate taxonomic inconsistency or error, and that additional biological problems of hybridity or asexual reproduction occur that may not be consistent with state endangered species definitions. The majority of the taxonomic problems noted in the New England rare flora are at the infraspecific level. Specific policy recommendations which arise from this study include the addition of synonyms to state endangered species lists, the formation of scientific advisory boards to assist state agencies with evaluating taxonomic changes, and increased support of taxonomic research dealing with rare species issues.
23312917|Land protection alone is not sufficient to accomplish in situ conservation objectives. Habitat management is required to help address most of the threats to rare plant populations and their habitats. The high cost of land protection can often be countered by focusing conservation activity on public land where land acquisition is not an issue. It is still necessary, though, to focus conservation resources on populations that will best contribute to the protection of the species. A range-wide approach using Heritage data to compare all existing occurrences is discussed. A management planning process is described for those populations that do become the focus of in situ efforts. This planning process includes the development of ecological models that describe the interaction among the species, its habitat and key ecological processes. These models aid in the development of site designs and the establishment of measurable conservation goals. The success of management actions at reaching these goals should be tracked in focused biological monitoring programs. This feedback mechanism enables land managers to reevaluate their ecological assumptions, conservation goals and management strategies.
23312916|Because plant conservationists have such an enormous task facing them, criteria for setting conservation priorities must be developed. In this paper I suggest a set of criteria for determining species conservation priorities based on three independent factors: (1) likelihood of persistence, (2) taxonomic distinctiveness, and (3) potential economic or ecological importance. Species with the highest priority for conservation will be those that are unlikely to persist without intervention, are taxonomically distinct and are economically or ecologically important. There are also a set of practical criteria that must be considered in setting priorities: What are the chances that the proposed conservation program will succeed? Could the program endanger existing natural populations? How expensive will the effort be? Regional plant conservation programs have something important to offer. Just as it makes sense to justify a regional plant conservation program for New England with reference to the distinctive characteristics of its flora, it makes sense to define regions within New England towards which our conservation programs are directed. Not only will regional plant conservation programs make a significant contribution to conserving our natural heritage, but their development will lead to new insights that can be applied to conservation on a much broader scale.
23313173|Plant community structure and selected physical parameters influencing vegetational patterns were studied in a Merrimack River freshwater tidal marsh. A flora of 88 vascular plant species was documented. Special consideration was given to three species, Scirpus fluviatilis, Bidens eatonii and Eriocaulon parkeri, listed as rare for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Species abundance data were used to classify the vegetation into eight plant cover types using the computer program TWINSPAN.
23313172|Chromosome numbers are reported for 206 individuals of 100 taxa and three interspecific hybrids from 18 genera. The majority of the reports are for Aster and Solidago, with about one fourth of these from populations in Alaska, the Yukon, British Columbia, and Alberta. Nearly all counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; some reports are first counts for one or more of the six Canadian provinces or territories and 30 states of the United States sampled. The cytogeography and taxonomy of Aster puniceus, A. sibiricus and A. meritus, Solidago guiradonis, S. confinis, S. spectabilis, S. sparsiflora, and S. simplex are discussed. The following first report is included: Solidago guiradonis, 2n = 9II, 2n = 18.
23313169|Alpine and sub-alpine cliff floras have changed since botanists first explored the mountaintops of the northeastern United States; results of recent extensive field surveys are compared with the historical database to document these changes. New distribution and population data are presented for 27 rare northern taxa in Vermont, New York, New Hampshire and Maine. Paronychia argyrocoma is reported for the first time from Vermont. Eleven historical records for rare species are dismissed as errors. Most newly reported rare plant locations appear to be previously unexplored areas and do not represent recent dispersal. Population declines are indicated for Arenaria rubella in Vermont and Luzula spicata in New York, although the populations are in remote and pristine sites. Local extirpations are presumed in Vermont for Arnica lanceolata, Castilleja septentrionalis, Empetrum eamesii ssp. atropurpureum, Geocaulon lividum, and Solidago cutleri, and in New York for Cassiope hypnoides.
23313168|Blephilia subnuda Simmers & Kral is described from the Cumberland Plateau province of northern Alabama. This species is compared with other species and forms of Blephilia, from all of which it differs in its puberulent calyx tube. From B. ciliata it differs primarily also in having serotinous decumbent offshoots, stems glabrate below the middle, leaves glabrate, calyx mostly shorter, and corollas paler in ground color (white to pale purple). From glabrate forms of B. hirsuta it differs primarily in stem vesture, leaves with fewer trichomes, calyx with longer, puberulent tube and longer teeth of lower lip, and darker nutlet color.
23313171|The name H. micrantha Pollard is shown to be currently misapplied; plants going under that name in recent floristic treatments are referable to H. wrightii (Baker) Brackett while H. micrantha Pollard is properly regarded as a synonym of H. hirsuta (Linnaeus) Coville. H. curtissii Rose is shown to have priority over H. leptocarpa (Engelmann & Gray) Small. Lectotypes are selected for H. rigida Chapman and H. sessilis Linnaeus.
23313170|An albino form of Triphora trianthophora (Swartz) Rydberg is described as forma albidoflava Keenan, characterized by pure white sepals and petals, and the three crests on the lip petal being a bright yellow instead of the normal green color, the remainder of the plant creamy-white. A summary of conclusions on observations of the three-birds orchid in Holderness, N.H. at two different sites, one under study for twenty years, the other for six years, including these: approximately five or six days of flowering spaced over a bloom period from the first week in August to the first week in September; variation in population from a few thousand to several thousand each year; simultaneous blooming in a region encompassing New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts; more than 95% of the plants having either one or two flowers open at the same time.
23312884|Floral and geographic evidence for infraspecific classification of the monotypic genus Limnobium (incl. Hydromystria) native to the Americas are presented. A continuum in floral form and a conspicuous overlap in patterns of flower variation between populations disclose the presence of just one latitudinally diverging species, Limnobium spongia (Bosc) Steudel, in which two subspecies, L. spongia subsp. spongia and L. spongia subsp. laevigatum (Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.) Lowden, comb. nov., are recognized. Numerical analysis of floral variation in living populations and their evolutionary trends are treated for these two subspecies. Special field collections of this freshwater, non-submerged, monoecious plant were made throughout the known range of the genus in eastern United States, West Indies and South America. Population samples allowed critical morphological observations on male and female flowers, for which consistent and continuous variation was found in the form and number of petals, stamens, staminoides, stigmas, carpels and locules.
23312887|Seven selected limesink depressions in Carolina Beach State Park (New Hanover County, North Carolina) were floristically surveyed in 1990. One state record, 11 county records, and 28 species of special interest or concern are among the 108 vascular plant species collected or observed.
23312886|Scirpus longii is a rare coastal plain plant traditionally regarded as a New Jersey Pine Barrens species. It had been known from only one site in Canada, in Nova Scotia, until it was recognized in its vegetative state. In Nova Scotia, S. longii occurs in wetlands where the importance of competition from shrubs has been reduced either by ice scour or flooding. Flooding, and consequent anaerobiosis, appears to be the main mechanism which reduces shrub growth in most S. longii habitats, but ice scour may be a more important factor on the shores of high watershed area lakes. Scirpus longii forms circular clones at all non-ice-scoured habitats. Above-ground production of shoots is restricted to the periphery of circular clones. Our data indicate that this circular phalanx may help the species to compete with shrubs. Populations in Nova Scotia appear to be secure; however, their persistence will be influenced by any factor which alters their competitive dynamics with shrubs.
23312885|Andropogon barbatus L. 1759 and 1760 refer to a Jamaican grass, whereas A. barbatus L. 1771, a later homonym, applies to an East Indian grass. A. polydactylon L. 1763, a renaming of A. barbatus L. 1759 and 1760, is a superfluous name. Chloris barbata Sw. 1797, which was based on A. barbatus L. 1771, must be considered to be a nom. nov. C. barbata Sw. and C. elata Desvaux are the earlier names for C. inflata Link and C. dandeyana Adams.
23312889|The natural plant communities and habitats of Berkshire County, Massachusetts, are described. Communities are delineated by a description of the physical characteristics of the habitat and typical vegetation. An extensive list of species most closely associated with each community is provided. Distribution of the communities within the county is discussed, and examples are given. Other factors, both biotic and abiotic, that influence development of each community are noted.
23312888|Microstegium vimineum is a weedy species which has recently spread from New Jersey into New York and Connecticut. It has been collected at two sites along the Hudson River in New York and reported from three sites in Connecticut. Because of its ability to invade rapidly into disturbed areas, this grass may pose a threat to rare native associate species.
23312358|Morphological variability in two populations of Lake Erie planktonic algae, Ankyra judayi and A. lanceolata, is examined and compared. Although both species are similar in general size and form they are easily separated by shape and position of their binate "anchor-like" appendages.
23312362|The Mexican species of Delphinium are examined; included are fifteen taxa of fourteen species (two subspecies of D. bicornutum Hemsley). One cultivated species (D. ajacis L.) native to Europe, and three species (D. andesicola Ewan, D. scaposum Greene and D. wootonii Rydberg) not yet found in Mxico are included. Proximity of the present ranges of these latter three species on the north side of the United StatesMxico border and presence of suitable habitat in adjacent Mxico warrants their treatment here.
23312360|Chromosome numbers of 2n = 34 and karyotypes of five species of Piptocarpha from southern Brazil are reported for the first time. The chromosome number of 2n = 34 is the same as that for many of the species of Vernonia from the New World. The karyotypes are suggestive of an infrageneric classification of Piptocarpha based upon exomorphology and leaf flavonoids. These first reports are for Piptocarpha quadrangularis, P. lundiana, P. sellowii, P. axillaris, and P. macropoda.
23312355|Saxifraga stellaris L. var. comosa Retz. is disjunct on Mt. Katahdin at the extreme southern periphery of its Arctic distribution. Failure of megasporogenesis and degradation of pollen tetrads requires this proliferous variety of Saxifraga stellaris L. to be an obligate apomict on the mountain. Breakdown of normal sexual reproduction is more complete on Mt. Katahdin than in Greenland where the variety also occurs. Location of bulbils on axillary branches of the reproductive axis and production of aberrant proliferations from placental tissue within ovaries suggests that vegetative proliferations arise from floral meristems. The evolutionary relationship between proliferous Saxifraga stellaris var. comosa and sexual S. stellaris var. stellaris is unresolved.
23312357|A sepalless floral variant of Trillium recurvatum Beck (prairie wakerobin or recurved-sepal trillium), a sessile-flowered species, is described as forma esepalum. The new form is distinguished from f. recurvatum and previously named aberrant forms (f. foliosum Steyerm. and f. petaloideum Steyerm.) by a floral phyllotaxy in which the calyx is represented by petals; other alternating floral whorls appear as normal stamens (3 outer and 3 inner) and a pistil of 3 fused carpels. Absence of a whorl of perianth segments accompanied by a 60 shift in the phyllotaxy of the remaining floral parts was previously noted in the genus Trillium only among the Asiatic species, where a petalless condition characterizes one tetraploid pedicellate-flowered species, T. apetalon Makino.
23312361|Chromosome numbers for individuals from 222 populations of Aster representing 8 species (A. ciliolatus, A. cordifolius, A. laevis, A. macrophyllus, A. ontarionis, A. oolentagiensis, A. puniceus, A. urophyllus) were determined. Sampling was concentrated in the area formerly occupied by Ontario Island. None of the taxa was represented by more than one cytotype for any of the Ontario populations.
23312363|Principal components analysis (PCA) of morphological data and foliar flavonoid content were used to delimit five frequently confused southeastern Vitis taxa and to infer phylogenetic relationships. The PCA revealed four morphological groupings corresponding to V. aestivalis, V. cinerea var. cinerea, V. cinerea var. floridana and, in the fourth group, V. vulpina and V. riparia. The flavonoid survey of the taxa confirmed interspecific distinctions and indicated three distinct chemical groups: one producing only flavonol 3-0-glycosides (V. vulpina, V. riparia), one producing a flavone 7-0-glycoside in addition to the flavonols (V. cinerea var. floridana), and one producing C-glycosylflavones in addition to the flavonols and flavones (V. aestivalis, V. cinerea var. cinerea). These flavonoid data also suggest putative relationships between taxa. Combined use of these two techniques is likely to be useful in future studies addressing taxonomic problems within Vitis.
23312359|Survival of Ulmus americana L. in New England has dramatically improved due to use of a shallow-pit injection technique which delivers systemic fungicide directly into the conducting elements of the outermost growth ring in the trunk. Previous injection methods drive fluids into older, non-functional wood, producing both inconsistent results and costly failures.
23312423|Three species of vascular plants are newly recorded for the flora of Connecticut. These are: Linaria dalmatica L. (Scrophulariaceae); Eupatorium album L., and Aster blakei (Porter) House (Compositae).
23312422|Carex praegracilis W. Boott is a widespread and frequent native species of prairies and meadows throughout much of western North America. It is both salt and drought tolerant. Cumulative maps based on pre-1900, pre-1970 and pre-1984 herbarium specimens were plotted and the differing distributions analyzed. From 1896 to about 1970, sporadic records of its introduction into the east accumulated. These were mostly from near the native range of the species, and often from along railways. From about 1970 on, the species began to occur on saline verges of multilane highways and with incredible rapidity became abundant and widespread in this habitat, at the same time spreading far eastward into the Great Lakes region and beyond. This rapid eastward expansion is attributed to a combination of dispersal opportunities provided by vehicles, by highway construction and maintenance equipment, and provision of more or less continuous corridors of open, saline habitat resulting from roadside mowing and use of de-icing salt.
23312421|Dahlia congestifolia, new from Cerro Chulco near Apan, Hidalgo, belongs to Section Entemophyllon within which its herbaceous and solitary shoot habit, purple disc florets, and non-leafy stems combine to enlarge morphic diversity and, perhaps, draw the section closer to Section Dahlia.
23312420|Since 1978 the Massachusetts Natural Heritage Program has conducted an inventory of rare species throughout the state of Massachusetts. For 286 rare vascular plant taxa information is provided on current nomenclature, number of stations, endangerment status, range extensions, habitat preference, and identification.
23313967|Carex impressinervia Bryson, Kral and Manhart is described from the southeastern U.S. This taxon has characters which, collectively, clearly place it in section Oligocarpae: staminate terminal spikes; female spike scales with harsh cusps and costae; perigynia with many impressed nerves and short, toothless beaks. It is distinguished most easily from the other Oligocarpae by the presence of persistent brownish fibrils of old leaf bases. This taxon appears to be quite rare, known only from four collections from the upper coastal plain and plateau regions of Alabama, Mississippi, and North Carolina.
23313970|Weissia hedwigii, Pottia truncata var. major, and Pottia starkeana ssp. minutula are reported as new to the flora of New York State. Pottia starkeana ssp. minutula may be a weedy introduction from the Old World. The occurrence of Desmatodon porteri is confirmed for the State.
23313973|To determine whether Calopogon tuberosus var. latifolius is worthy of recognition, and if so what rank is appropriate, data from herbarium material and uniform cultivation were analyzed. Plants corresponding to the original concept of Calopogon tuberosus var. latifolius from Sable Island were found to represent the tail end of a continuum of variation, making their formal taxonomic recognition inappropriate. In cultivation the Sable Island plants generally retained their short stature and wide leaves. Although there is a genetic component to the pattern of variation, the limits are arbitrary and some plants from Sable Island initially referable to one variety became referable to the other variety in subsequent years of cultivation. The concept of varietas is considered useful only in the sense of morphological discontinuity involving one or a few differences that have a geographic basis. The unique and genetically-based pattern of variation in Calopogon tuberosus on Sable Island is nevertheless of interest and is part of a general pattern involving both plants and animals.
23313972|A total of 128 original chromosome counts representing 16 taxa of the genus Arnica is presented. A first count for A. lonchophylla ssp. chionopappa (2n = 76), a northeastern North American disjunct, is reported. In addition, new counts are reported for A. angustifolia ssp. attenuata (2n = 76) and A. chamissonis ssp. chamissonis (2n = 76). The latter account for formation of previously reported triploids via hybridization between diploid and tetraploid races. The rare Klamath region endemics are diploid, while their more widespread congeners are largely polyploid. The genus contains several mature polyploid complexes, and exhibits both maximum species diversity and cytological diversity in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and Wyoming.
23313966|Eighteen chromosome counts are reported from populations in 12 species from the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile, plus three counts from taxa of the adjacent mainland. First reports are given for Lobelia tupa (n = 21), Wahlenbergia masafuerae (n = ca. 11), and Raphithamnus spinosus (n = ca. 18). These data help extend chromosomal information for endemic taxa of the archipelago as part of broad evolutionary studies on the origin and development of its vascular flora.
23313969|Cytological and morphological data showed that natural hybridization between Cirsium flodmanii and C. undulatum occurred occasionally in Nebraska and that the high degree of hybrid sterility was correlated with meiotic irregularities.
23313974|One hundred and one species of vascular plants were documented for the flora of Mud Pond Bog, a southern New Hampshire level bog in Hillsborough County. Percent cover data for 77 species in 99 quadrats were analyzed using the classification program TWINSPAN. Vegetation was classified into five community types and seven subtypes based on dominant vascular species. The NymphaeaBrasenia community, an association of floating-leaved aquatics, formed in the open water adjacent to a minerotrophic edge association, the ChamaedaphneDecodonPeltandra community. A more ombrotrophic consolidated mat contained three subtypes of the Chamaedaphne community. The wooded areas of the bog were characterized by the AcerNemopanthus and Ilex verticillataAcerCarex canescens communities. The floristic composition, structure and distribution of these plant communities at Mud Pond Bog have strong similarities to other level peatlands in eastern North America.
23313968|Stelexomonas dichotoma, an oligothermal colonial chrysophycean species, is reported from the phytoplankton of Lake Erie. Notes on its morphological variability are also provided.
23313971|Chromosome numbers are reported for all taxa in the goldenaster genus Pityopsis, which until recently usually has been included in Chrysopsis sensu lato. Pityopsis has a base number of x = 9 and includes diploids, tetraploids and one hexaploid race. After the identities of vouchers for all previous reports were brought into line with the classification indicated below, general patterns of cytotype distributions within taxa in the southeastern United States were recognized. Only diploids are known in P. sect. Pityopsis, and all species have restricted distributions. Polyploidy is frequent in P. sect. Graminifoliae; the cytotypes in species with more than one ploidy level have different, but overlapping, ranges. Reports for the following are documented: Pityopsis aspera var. adenolepis, 2n = 9II, 18, 18II, 36; P. aspera var. aspera, 2n = 9II; P. falcata, 2n = 9II; P. flexuosa, 2n = 9II, 18; P. graminifolia var. aequilifolia, 2n = 9II, 18; P. graminifolia var. graminifolia, 2n = 18; P. graminifolia var. latifolia, 2n = 18II, 36; P. graminifolia var. tenuifolia, 2n = 9II, 18; P. graminifolia var. tracyi, 2n = 54; P. oligantha, 2n = 18II; P. pinifolia, 2n = 9II, 18; and P. ruthii, 2n = 9II.
23313965|Recent herbarium studies have disclosed a specimen supporting reports of Platanthera leucophaea (Nutt.) Lindl. in Louisiana, but specimens cited in the past from Arkansas are neither of this species nor were they collected in that state.
23313077|The distribution of the eastern prickly-pear cactus, Opuntia humifusa in New England is presently restricted to Connecticut and Massachusetts. The northern limit of the range of this species is delimited at approximately 42 degrees north latitude.
23313075|In his monograph of Aster section Biotia Burgess listed, as native to New England, 41 of the 84 species that he recognized in the group. Multivariate statistical analyses of morphological measurements that were made on specimens of Biotian asters collected in the region reveal, however, that only the three species, A. divaricatus, A. macrophyllus, and A. schreberi, are present. The same methods also demonstrate that A. glomeratus, a species that is accepted by some authorities as being native to New England, is simply a diminutive variant of A. schreberi.
23313078|Calamagrostis pickeringii (Poaceae) has been found growing in Maine for the first time. The population, growing in Corea Heath, a costal peatland in Gouldsboro, Hancock County, helps fill a large gap in the species' range in northeastern North America. Its post-glacial northward migration from southern unglaciated stations is suggested as generating its present distribution. Disjunctions in its range may reflect both limited availability of suitable peatland habitats and incomplete documentation of peatlands in east costal Maine and New Brunswick.
23313074|Lowland and upland, old-growth, deciduous forests in northern Cape Breton Island reflect an appreciable representation, in both canopy and sub-canopy layers, of species that reach the northeastern limit of their ranges in the area. A high percentage of arborescent species in the lowland forests are southern in their distributional affinities, whereas upland forests are comprised mainly of species whose distributions are Canadian and boreal. Canopy elements in lowland forests reach considerable heights with size falling off appreciably with increasing altitude. Basal area per acre for stems 4 inches and above in diameter at breast height (D.B.H.) in these old-growth forests varies from 115 to 181 square feet and trees per acre range from 157 to 268.
23313073|Nineteen centric diatom species are described and illustrated from the Highland Lake District of northeastern Wisconsin. Genera treated include Attheya West, Cyclotella (Ktz.) Brb., Melosira C. A. Agardh, Rhizosolenia Brightwell, and Stephanodiscus Ehrenberg. Information on the morphological variability of selected taxa and general distribution within the study area is also provided.
23313072|Carex hostiana DC. is a variable, amphi-Atlantic calciphile. Multivariate statistical analyses have been used to examine the patterns of morphological variation found within the species. Although several infraspecific taxa have been described, the results of this investigation indicate that there are no discontinuities in the morphological variation which can be clearly correlated with geography. Large plants tend to be most frequent on the North American side of the Atlantic Ocean and in Scandinavia, but large and small plants can be found scattered throughout the entire range of the species. No infraspecific taxa are worthy of recognition.
23312450|Taraxacum turfosum (Schultz-Bipont) van Soest, a microspecies of the distinctive Section Palustria (Taraxacum palustre, s. lat.); Asteraceae, was found to be abundant in eastern Ontario and adjacent areas of Quebec and New York state. Earlier reports of the Section are attributed to other taxa. This report is the first verified occurrence of a species of Section Palustria in North America. Its distinctive morphology and habitat are described. The oldest collection of T. turfosum is from 1964, suggesting a recent introduction for this European taxon. Mechanical transport by high speed road traffic, snow plows and grass mowers is apparently assisting its rapid spread along roadways. Viable seed is produced and is likely wind dispersed. Evidence of declining populations was observed following two dry winter/early spring seasons in eastern Ontario.
23312447|The current taxonomic, ecological, and distributional statuses of the genera Oncidium Sw. and Tolumnia Raf. in Florida are discussed. Descriptions and a key to the three species, O. floridanum, O. undulatum, and T. bahamense, are included. Oncidium undulatum is neotypified and O. carthagenense is excluded from the flora of Florida.
23312445|The type species of the genus Sabatia Adans. (Gentianaceae) is S. dodecandra (L.) BSP. and not the species so designated in Index Nominum Genericorum. The status of the genera proposed by Adanson in Familles des Plantes is briefly discussed and it is suggested that stability would be better served by accepting Familles des Plantes by Adanson as a valid source of generic names rather than to discard it as has been recently recommended.
23312448|Fifty-eight of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties were surveyed for the presence of Vittaria and Trichomanes gametophytes. Sixteen new county records are noted for Vittaria. Five previous reports bring the total to twenty-one. Trichomanes, reported previously from twelve counties, is herein recorded from an additional thirty. Phytogeographical observations and comments for both taxa are included.
23312446|Variation in leaf, fruit, bract, and catkin morphology of Betula alleghaniensis Britt. and B. lenta L. was studied along the elevational gradient in the southern Appalachians in order to characterize the regional structure of the two species. Populations at 52 sites were sampled in North Carolina and adjacent parts of Tennessee, Georgia, and South Carolina. Weak to moderate linear relationships with elevation were found in most size attributes for both species. A few shape characters were also correlated with elevation for one or the other species. Betula alleghaniensis was significantly more variable than B. lenta for 28 of the 44 characters analyzed. Levels of variability in both species approximated or exceeded levels found in other regions. Low-elevation rather than high-elevation southern Appalachian B. alleghaniensis appears to be more similar to the northern form. However, due to the nature of the morphological cline, the authors found no validity to varietal distinctions in yellow birch.
23312449|Two populations of the globally endangered running buffalo clover (Trifolium stoloniferum) were recently discovered in Ohio County in southeastern Indiana. The habitats of the populations are limestone gravel wash, mesic upland forest, and mesic floodplain forest. All of the sites are grazed to various degrees by cattle. Absence of the clover in similar but ungrazed sites adjacent to the populations suggests that effects of grazing are beneficial. Suppression of competing understory vegetation is likely the most beneficial effect. The endangered status of T. stoloniferum probably reflects actual rarity, but misconceptions by botanists of the clover's morphology and habitat may account for the extreme paucity of recent collections. Recommendations for field survey techniques are given.
23312533|Chromosome numbers of 261 individuals representing 121 taxa and 4 interspecific hybrids from 25 genera are reported. The majority of the counts are for Aster, Gutierrezia and Solidago. Nearly all counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; some reports are first counts for a state or province. Over 100 counts are from populations in California. Included are first reports for the following taxa: Aster laevis var. guadalupensis, 2n = 48; Aster priceae, 2n = 64; Aster reticulatus, 2n = 9ii; Aster wasatchensis, 2n = 18; Gutierrezia solbrigii, 2n = 20ii; Heterotheca jonesii, 2n = 9ii; Heterotheca rutteri, 2n = 18; and Stephanodoria tomentella, 2n = 6ii.
23312535|Arisaema dracontium (L.) Schott has been historically considered rare in Massachusetts. Recent field studies in selected floodplain forests in Hampshire Co. indicate that A. dracontium is more abundant than was previously believed.
23312532|Wintergreen, Gaultheria procumbens, a perennial evergreen member of the boreal forest, has persisted as a post-glacial relic on an acidic, south-facing slope at Pine Hills, Montgomery County, Indiana. The population area is believed to have been minimal in 1868 when overlying hemlock was cut. Surveys in 1951, 1961, 1971, and 1981 have shown the colonies to have expanded vigorously until 1961, then to have undergone a precipitous collapse, associated with regrowth of the hemlock, and to have now approached local extinction. An effort to reverse the population decline by removal of a portion of the hemlock overstory appears not to have been successful.
23312534|Three Mile Island, New Hampshire (U.S.A.), located on the northwest arm of Lake Winnipesaukee in central New Hampshire, is approximately 17.4 ha in size. The flora of this island has been studied intermittently by various botanists and naturalists since 1900. Surveys and collections of the vascular plant flora were undertaken by the authors between 1978 and 1985. A single synthetic list of the island's vascular flora was produced, including plants listed by all previous observers. A total of 363 species is here reported, including Cypripedium arietinum, a rare species listed by the state of New Hampshire. General characteristics of plant taxa lost and gained reflect the land use patterns of Three Mile Island, a continuum of small changes occupying eight decades.
23312465|The status of the on-going floristic survey of the rare plants of New Hampshire is discussed with particular emphasis on the situation both before and after the 1978 publication of Rare and Endangered Vascular Plant Species in New Hampshire. Records of the new state occurrences discovered by the New Hampshire Natural Heritage Inventory are provided. Information on the legal status of rare plant species in the state pursuant to the 1987 Plant Protection Act and the Federal Endangered Species Act is provided.
23312463|The existence of a coastal plain flora in southwestern Nova Scotia was first documented by Fernald in the 1920's. Recent field work has documented the distributions of coastal plain species more accurately, and there is now a growing emphasis on research dealing with habitat conservation. Most Atlantic coastal plain plants in Nova Scotia are confined to infertile sand and gravel shorelines on lakeshores where fluctuating water levels prevent shrubs from colonizing the broad, open shorelines. The species are also abundant where exposure to waves is intense. On such shorelines, wave action reduces soil fertility by washing away small soil particles and organic matter. Coastal plain species are very tolerant of such nutrient-poor conditions and can be considered "stress-tolerators." The plants are not abundant at fertile sites apparently because they cannot successfully compete against tall, fast-growing species that normally occur on fertile soil. As a result, the small, slow growing coastal plain plants are restricted to sparsely vegetated shorelines. Increasing numbers of these species are receiving recognized status from the Nature Conservancy and from the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada. In spite of this, existing habitat continues to be threatened by cottage development and the use of all-terrain vehicles. The establishment of a conservation strategy to preserve what remains of the flora should include 1) the preservation of whole habitats, 2) consideration of global status of the species, and 3) the incorporation of reserves, buffer zones, and community education and participation.
23312469|The Connecticut Geological and Natural History Survey has been sponsoring botanical inventories in Connecticut since its inception in 1903. In 1975 a field team was charged with beginning a statewide inventory of Connecticut's rare species of vascular plants and vertebrate animals; results of these inventories were published in 1976. This publication listed 274 vascular plant taxa as endangered, threatened, or otherwise of interest as uncommon plant species. In 1982 the Connecticut Natural Diversity Data Base was established as a program of the Connecticut Geological and Natural History Survey. The charge of the Data Base is both to accumulate and disseminate data on the biota of Connecticut with special attention being paid to Species of Special Concern. The Natural Diversity Data Base currently lists 331 vascular plant taxa. Since 1979 the Survey has increased its field efforts to locate Species of Special Concern. In addition to a botanist, the Survey funds a full-time plant ecologist whose primary charge is to establish a biophysical land classification for Connecticut. Plant communities are being mapped on 1:250,000 base maps. The Survey also has responsibility for a land owner contact program called the Connecticut Natural Heritage Registry which uses rare species information obtained from the Natural Diversity Data Base. Recent field work has yielded some interesting botanical finds. A number of historic records have been re-located, including Cypripedium reginae, Petasites frigidus var. palmatus, Cryptogramma stelleri, Polygala senega, Polygala nuttallii, and Solidago rigidus. New localities for Trollius laxus ssp. laxus, Viburnum prunifolium, and other species of concern have been found. One locality for a U.S. Endangered Species, Isotria medeoloides, is currently known in Connecticut. Some species new to Connecticut such as Psilocarya scirpoides have been located. Research on Moehringia macrophylla, a species which occurs in Connecticut at two algific talus slopes, is briefly discussed as an example of new program directions.
23312471|Carex, the largest genus of flowering plants in New England, has long presented systematists and floristicians with difficulties. An update on recent systematic research of New England Carex is presented and persisting areas of taxonomic difficulty are tabulated. Whether a species is northern or southern in overall distribution with respect to New England is suggested to be significant, with northern species more frequently persisting as isolated occurrences and under more threat than southern species.
23312460|Late Cretaceous and Tertiary plant fossils are found in relatively few places in New England, but the fossil record is sufficient to provide a general impression of changes in floras, vegetation types, and climates in the region during this time span. Late Cretaceous pollen and plant megafossils of Massachusetts and Rhode Island are poorly known with regard to their affinities with modern taxa, but the fossils show that the subhumid paratropical Normapolles province of the eastern United States extended at least as far north as New England. Paleocene and early Eocene pollen assemblages from Massachusetts are important because they suggest that the tropical rainforests of the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains extended with considerable taxonomic uniformity at least as far north as New England. The Eocene flora is quite similar to the coeval flora of Europe, partly because of migration from Europe to North America at the beginning of Eocene time. The late Oligocene pollen and megafossil flora of Vermont and the middle Miocene pollen flora of Massachusetts probably represent Mixed Mesophytic forest. One or both of these floras included exotic elements such as Glyptostrobus, Podocarpus, Sciadopitys, Alangium, Engelhardieae, Phellodendron, and Turpinia. Two pollen assemblages of probable Pliocene age are known from Martha's Vineyard; they represent a cool temperate vegetation.
23312459|Biogeography is a useful tool for the phylogenist. Distribution patterns, past and present, can be most instructive in indicating possible relationships. This observation is true because the closest living relatives of a phyletically unplaced taxon are more likely than not to be found in the same or adjacent areas rather than on distant continents. However, this generalization must be used with caution for many plant groups possess great vagility and have spread rapidly into appropriate habitats over the earth. The largely Old World Pittosporales are described in some detail as a prime example of application of this dictum of geographic plausibility. Archaic dicotyledons of the Australasian and Asian regions are discussed as other examples of the dictum, as are a few North American taxa such as Simmondsia, Crossosomataceae, and Batis. Additional angiosperms are listed without discussion for both North and South America.
23312461|The times of arrival from southern sources and the rates and directions of migration are now known for many species of forest trees in New England. This information has made possible the reconstruction of generalized vegetation types for the period 14,000 to 9000 yr. B.P., as has been done recently by R. Davis and G. Jacobson for Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine. The regional pattern, which has been based mainly on studies of fossil pollen from wind-pollinated trees, includes a diverse and biogeographically interesting flora of bryophytes, herbs, and shrubs that only recently is becoming defined through studies of plant macrofossils. The most thoroughly investigated sites, Tom Swamp (Massachusetts), Columbia Bridge (Vermont), and Upper South Branch Pond (Maine) have produced late-glacial floras with numerous calcicoles, some of which are rare or lacking in the present New England flora. Fossils of arctic-alpine species are also present at these sites, which are all at low elevations. A prominent calcicole element exists in the late-glacial fossil record regardless of whether the extant flora near a site contains such plants. This pattern is evident for both seed plants and bryophytes. For areas with acidic soils, the loss of calcicoles is correlated with the late-Pleistocene arrival of spruce (as documented by increases in macrofossils) at 12,800 yr. B.P. in southern New England, and some 2300 radiocarbon years later in north-central Maine. Leaching, humus or litter accumulation, and other aspects of soil genesis may have been responsible for the loss, but what caused the pattern is poorly understood. As viewed on a continental scale and over thousands of years, the elimination of calcicoles has left fragmented ranges and rare occurrences in eastern North America of boreal or northern plants that otherwise are today widespread to the west.
23312473|Propagation and cultivation of endangered species can provide information on species biology, provide reserve collections in the event of catastrophe in the wild, educate the public at botanical institutions, and provide plants for reintroduction or introduction to the wild. Propagation notes on New England rare species include Eupatorium leucolepis var. novae-angliae, Trollius laxus, Oxytropis campestris var. johannensis, Schwalbea americana, Agalinis acuta, Astragalis robbinsii var. jesupi, Polemonium van-bruntiae, Mimulus ringens var. colpolphilus, and Scirpus longii.
23312464|The last decade has brought significant advances in knowledge and conservation of rare plant species in Maine. The status of rare species in the state is reflected in the Official List of Maine's Plants that are Endangered or Threatened, recently compiled by the Maine State Planning Office. Systematic inventories by the Maine Critical Areas Program and The Nature Conservancy's Natural Heritage Program have uncovered numerous new populations of species of national concern, and stations for over 50 species for which there were no known extant stations eight years ago. However, 91 species are still considered possibly extirpated in Maine. While 34% of these are northern species, 57% are southern species reaching the northern limits of their ranges in southwestern Maine. It is not known whether this disproportion reflects uneven inventory effort or a greater number of local extinctions. In the last eight years, private conservation organizations have acquired ten sites totalling 2000 acres to protect 45 species of plants. The voluntary cooperation of numerous state agencies, as well as over 225 private landowners, has been enlisted in protecting 168 rare plant stations placed on the Register of Critical Areas. Maine still lacks legislation specifically protecting rare plants. Thus, the principal hopes for further progress in rare plant conservation in Maine lie in continued public education, landowner cooperation, and especially acquisition of critical habitat.
23312493|Spiranthes occupying moist sites in Ash Meadows, Nye County, Nevada, which have been cited as S. romanzoffiana Cham., are described as the new species S. infernalis Sheviak. This species is distinguished by very small flowers with free perianth segments spreading at the apices, the segments ochraceous-ochroleucous with fleshy, emerald-green bases, and lips broadest near the middle.
23312494|Wittrockiella paradoxa Wille (Chlorophyta, Cladophoraceae) is reported for the first time from northeastern North America, at Sam Orr Pond, New Brunswick, Canada. Vegetative plants were found from JuneAugust, 1987, and reproductive plants (bearing aplanosporangia) were found in June and July, 1987. They occurred epiphytically on decaying Spartina leaves in an oligohaline-mesohaline saltmarsh habitat.
23312497|Maine's Official List of Endangered and Threatened Plants includes 85 Endangered and 74 Threatened taxa. In addition, we have recognized three administrative categories: Special Concern (45 taxa), Special ConcernPossibly Extirpated (90 taxa) and Watch List (37 taxa). Status of a particular plant within Maine is the primary rationale for listing, regardless of frequency of occurrence and abundance outside the state. Lack of knowledge of the biology of most of Maine's rare plants precludes use of biological factors in our criteria. Listing criteria are therefore based on population number and size, with exceptions for plants that are Federally Endangered or Threatened, or with small populations, or confined to a small geographic area, or that are clearly and imminently jeopardized. These exceptions to the criteria allow us to list a plant such as Carex oronensis, Orono Sedge, as State Endangered, though it has more than 40 occurrences in Maine, because it is endemic to the Penobscot River drainage. Of Maine's Endangered and Threatened plants, 28 percent are concentrated in the southwestern corner of the state (York and Cumberland Counties) where many plants reach the northeastern limit of their geographical distribution; 38 percent are limited to four areas in northern and northwestern Mainethe St. John River Valley, Crystal Bog, Mt. Katahdin and Twin Peaks. The official list is informational, not regulatory, and will provide a focus for planning and education. The official and administrative lists are to be formally reviewed biennially.
23311119|An updated county distribution map of Platanthera peramoena was made utilizing data from state natural heritage programs and similar organizations. Herbarium and field surveys were conducted by Ohio Division of Natural Areas and Preserves staff for Ohio localities of the species. These studies identified 41 sites of P. peramoena in Ohio, and habitats were identified where new populations are likely to be found. In Ohio, P. peramoena is a plant of wet acidic soils on the Illinois till plain and in the unglaciated Allegheny plateau. While not common in the state it is not in imminent danger of extirpation.
23311124|Flowering phenology, pollination, and morphological aspects of pollen and seeds of Panax trifolium L. are investigated. Plants are apparently androdioecious, but with very minor differences in pollen between floral forms (staminate and hemaphrodite). Light microscope and SEM studies were made of pollen and seeds.
23311118|Specific limits within the Cuban taxa of Kalmia (Ericaceae) are reinvestigated. A single species, K. ericoides, with two geographically isolated varieties is recognized. Kalmia ericoides var. ericoides is limited to Pinar del Ro while var. aggregata occurs only on the Isle of Pines. The taxa may be readily separated by the indumentum of their young twigs. Kalmia simulata is placed in synonymy under var. aggregata.
23311122|Vittaria is reported from 5 counties in Pennsylvania; Trichomanes from 24 counties in Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Vermont. All are new state records except Trichomanes in Massachusetts. These ferns occur as gametophytes only, but in large conspicuous populations in crevices and grottos of moist, non-calcareous rock outcrops in canyon topography. The northernmost distribution of Trichomanes has not been established, but may parallel that of the oak-hickory forest type. Vittaria was not found north of the southern terminus of Pleistocene glaciation; its northern distribution may have been truncated by that event. Vittaria sites in northwestern Pennsylvania are well north of apparently suitable glaciated habitats in eastern Pennsylvania which house Trichomanes but not Vittaria.
23311120|The plumed diaspores of the genus Andropogon are wind-dispersed. The dispersibility of Andropogons helps account for their success as colonizers both in their infestation of appropriate sites and their spread to newly available sites. The wind may also be responsible for the long-distance dispersal of A. bicornis L. from the Caribbean to southern Florida. This is the first record of this widespread New World taxon in the United States.
23311125|Mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia L.) presence along roads was mapped extensively for the whole state and intensively for selected quadrangles. Presence of mountain laurel in selected forests was determined from plots along transects. Frequency of mountain laurel was calculated as the per cent of road distance mapped, or of plots taken, that had laurel present. Mountain laurel occurred throughout the state on a range of sites, except for Cape Cod and eastern Plymouth County, in the high Berkshires and in the far west and north-west. Mountain laurel was uncommon in eastern Massachusetts and in a north-south strip through central Massachusetts, but was otherwise abundant. Absenc of mountain laurel was probably due to either fire history, maritime influence, cold winters, or basic soils. Low frequencies were probably due to a previous history of extensive land clearing for agriculture.
23311202|A synoptic study of chromosome number reports for 73 species of Potamogeton presents evidence supporting the conclusion that that genus is characterized by two different polyploid lineages (one based upon x = 7 and the other upon x = 13). Analyzed comparatively, chromosome numbers also indicate that the diploid level of the genus is 2n = 14, and that the x = 13 lineage arose by aneuploidy from a 2n = 14 progenitor. Comparisons developed by juxtaposition of chromosome numbers with morphological characters and classification ranks indicate that subsections Pusilli, Oxyphylli, and Amplifolii may not represent entirely natural assemblages. The past use of chromosome numbers to demonstrate the primitiveness of submersed leaves in the genus is challenged due to lack of correlation of these features when a larger number of species is considered. Chromosome numbers were found to correlate geographically with the hypothetically proposed birthplace of the genus.
23311205|Chromosome counts are provided for numerous populations representing nine taxa of Galinsoga, one species of Cymophora, two species of Sabazia and one of Tridax. Four of the counts for Galinsoga and one for Cymophora are newly reported. Morphological observations are offered for several of the species known previously only from type specimens or from few collections. Taxonomic ramifications of the cytological and morphological data are discussed.
23311203|Podostemum ceratophyllum is an often overlooked freshwater dicot, restricted to areas of swift moving river currentsan apparently ecologically sensitive habitat. Selected specimens representing the entire range of the plant are listed.
23314613|Carex crinita and C. gynandra are considered by some authors to be conspecific on the basis of morphological similarities. Variation in morphology, foliar anatomy, chromosomal numbers, and habitat preference among 12 populations of these taxa was studied to clarify their status and relationship. Two groups of populations are distinguished by non-overlapping qualitative differences in the morphology of perigynia, scales and sheaths. These groups appear to be reproductively isolated by differences in flowering time where they are sympatric. These taxa must be considered as distinct species on the basis of the morphological differences and reproductive isolation. Shared features of morphology, anatomy, and chromosomal number suggest that they are very closely related.
23314614|At least 18 different chromosome numbers, from n = 21 to n = 153 are reported for 51 collections of Sedum moranense from 45 localities, most of them in east central Mexico. At least ten levels of ploidy, up to 16-ploid, are represented, mostly based on x = 18-21, including probable 5-, 7-, and 9-ploids. Dysploid variants occur at several levels of ploidy, and some other plants have extra chromosomes of standard size; at least six have B-chromosomes. In most collections the bivalents do not differ greatly among themselves in size, but four collections from the Sierra de Guanajuato have strongly asymmetrical karyotypes and also anomalous chromosome numbers (n = 52, 54). In spite of the great variation in their chromosomes, most collections are very similar in their morphology, and, except for the larger flowers of the 14-ploid subspecies grandiflorum, no correlation is apparent between morphology and chromosome number.
23314611|The closely related genera, Clibadium, Desmanthodium, and Ichthyothere (Compositae, Heliantheae) are distributed in Mexico, Central America, and Northern and Central South America. Some of the species of Clibadium (e.g., C. laxum) have drupaceous achenes, which is unusual in the family. Comparative anatomical studies of fruits of the three genera show a strong similarity in the arrangement of the epidermis, hypodermis, and phytomelan and fiber layers. In most regards, Desmanthodium and Ichthyothere are more similar to each other than either is to Clibadium. The method of deposition of the phytomelan in all three genera begins with a series of tubes and cones from the fiber layer followed by patchy deposition of dark resistant material that eventually solidifies into a continuous layer. The phytomelan layer probably functions to protect the developing embryo and may also serve in regulating timing of germination.
23314609|A key to the species of Chaetomorpha and Rhizoclonium found in New England is presented along with a description and review of each species' ecology, distribution, and taxonomic history. Chaetomorpha picquotiana is shown to be an earlier name for C. atrovirens, and discussions concerning the generic placement of Chaetomorpha cannabina and the separation of the genera Chaetomorpha and Rhizoclonium are presented.
23314615|Mayapples (Podophyllum peltatum L.) grow in patches on the forest floor. Controlled pollinations within and between patches, as well as self-pollinations, indicate that the mayapple is self-sterile in only part of its range, and that in this part of the range, the patches are not single clones, i.e. they consist of more than one genotype.
23311078|Eighteen bryophytes new to Massachusetts and fifty-five additional new county records are reported, including the second collection of Pseudocrossidium hornschuchianum from the New World. Significant range extensions are briefly discussed in an annotated list, and additional noteworthy records are presented in an appendix. The bryophyte flora of the state as documented in the literature now stands at 329 species of mosses and 144 species of liverworts.
23311077|Field studies were carried out on the pollination of Sarracenia flava L. during three flowering seasons in relict bogs of the piedmont region of North Carolina. Flowering occurs in latter April into early May, and the most systematic, common, and effective pollinators were found to be queens of Bombus spp. Smaller native bees and Apis mellifera are at best accidental or occasional secondary pollinators, mainly because of infrequency of effective flower visits and the small size of the insects relative to modes of flower entry and exit. Sarcophaga sarraceniae activity around flowers is very rare in this area and is not of any consequence in pollination. Various other aspects of the problem discussed in the literature over the years are reviewed critically, among them the question of protandry. The flowers were found not to be protandrous. Nectar and pollen output in these large, early spring flowers is prodigious, and nectar sugar concentration is 39%. Pollen was weighed and nectar output estimated. Bombus behavior while visiting a flower is described and the relative incidence of insect pollinator autogamy, geitonogamy, and xenogamy is discussed. Numbers of flowers visited in a foray, time in forays and time per flower are recorded.
23311080|Two groups of sugar maples in west central Oklahoma which have been described as relicts were compared by numerical methods to eastern and western U.S. references. The populations of the Wichita Mountains, Comanche Co. have previously been assigned to the equivalent of Acer saccharum Marshall subsp. grandidentatum (Torrey and Gray) Desmarais (sensu lato) by some authorities and to Acer saccharum Marshall subsp. saccharum by others. Those of the Caddo Canyons, Caddo and Canadian counties have been consistently designated as Acer saccharum Marshall subsp saccharum. The two groups have a north-south separation of ca. 80 km. The continuous range of A. s. subsp. saccharum penetrates eastern Oklahoma as an irregular fringe ca. 320 km east of the prairie groups. The closest stations for subsp. A. s. grandidentatum are ca. 480 km west of the Oklahoma locations in the Monzano Mountains of New Mexico and ca. 680 km southwest in the Edwards Plateau of Texas. A principal coordinates analysis of micromeasurements of leaf samples from 160 populations collected in the four major geographic areas (eastern and western U.S. and Caddo Canyons and Wichita Mountains of Oklahoma) supports the hypothesis that the best designation for both Oklahoma groups is A. s. subsp. saccharum. These results indicate that single organs of some plants exhibit a high degree of reliability when extensive micromeasurements are used to detect genetic affinities.
23311081|The green leaves and flowers of Polygala paucifolia occur along the terminal, upright portions of long thin rhizomes that grow out from a small perennial tuber. Each tuber sends out several new rhizomes annually. New tubers are produced at the scale leaf nodes of the horizontal portion of the rhizome through the multiplication of lateral buds and through secondary vascular growth. This mode of vegetative reproduction increases the longevity of a plant and spreads an individual laterally.
23311076|Roots of Rhizophora undergo striking changes in structure as they grow from the open air into the substrate. To test the hypothesis that darkness and oxygen deprivation are responsible for determining root form in the underground environment, above-ground roots were covered with plastic to limit gas exchange, and with foil to block out light. After 9 months growth, roots growing in darkness with restricted gas flow became swollen and branched, as did underground roots. However, in artificially covered roots, axis swelling was due to pith enlargement rather than elaboration of cortex lacunae, as occurs in underground roots. Thus, root plasticity is expressed via a different mechanism when roots are in darkness and deprived of O2 than when they are underground. Other factors, alone or in combination, must govern development of underground Rhizophora roots.
23313709|We investigated current forest composition in relation to land use history at Broad Meadow Brook, a 157 ha urban wildlife sanctuary in Worcester, central Massachusetts. We obtained historical information from aerial photographs dating back to 1938, maps dating to 1831, various published sources, and interviews with long-term residents. We sampled tree vegetation in 35 20 m  20 m plots and understory vegetation in 140 5 m  5 m subplots. We obtained ages of several dozen trees by coring. Most of the sanctuary supported dry, mixed-oak forest that has been subject to frequent fires. Disturbed oak woods bore a greater variety of plants than older oak forest, including several non-native species. Mesic forest supported Fraxinus americana, Acer rubrum, and A. saccharum, with an abundant A. platanoides understory, a legacy of nearby residential plantings. Acer rubrum heavily dominated wet woodland. A small, previously cultivated plot supported an open canopy of A. rubrum with a dense understory of herbs and shrubs and showed little tree regeneration. A wooded dump dating to the early to mid-1900s supported a greater percentage of mesic, early-successional, and non-native species than surrounding dry woodland. Pinus strobus and Tsuga canadensis were rare throughout the sanctuary, a likely result of extensive fires. The site contrasts strongly with Harvard Forest sites 48 km to the northwest in Petersham, Mass., presumably reflecting climatic differences and the greater influence of fire and other human disturbances.
23313707|Agarista bracamorensis has been rediscovered in the Peruvian Andes, near the village of El Espino, near Jan, and the collections reported here represent the first since the type gathering by A. J. A. Bonpland in the early 1800s. A revised description of this species is presented, and it is compared with A. subcordata and A. albiflora, two putative relatives that also occur in northern Peru. The vegetation in which this species occurs is briefly described, including a list of common associated species.
23313708|Lepidium latifolium (perennial pepperweed) is an herbaceous perennial, native to Europe and western Asia, that is now well established at many locations in Massachusetts and Connecticut. This species is considered a major invasive species in the western United States and appears likely to become invasive in the east if left unchecked. We showed that the distribution is greater than previously documented in New England and that populations appear to be expanding. Individuals of the species can produce thousands of seeds and we found that these seeds are tolerant to many days of inundation by salt water so that dispersal by tidal and river currents is likely. In addition, populations can expand at least 2 m/yr from growth by rhizomes, and densities exceeded 50 shoots/m2 in some areas. We identified 17 species of plants that are likely impacted by the expanding populations and 23 families of arthropods associated with L. latifolium in some of these areas. In wetland habitats, repeated pulling of shoots to remove much of the rhizome was effective at stabilizing or eradicating whole, well-defined populations. This treatment was most effective if continued for two or more growing seasons.
23313710|The 1055 ha Strouds Run State Park is located in the southern unglaciated Allegheny Plateau physiographic province in southeastern Ohio. The park has a rugged landscape with steep-sided, narrowly rounded hills and narrow, V-shaped valleys. The vegetation consists mainly of oak-dominated and mixed mesophytic forests but also includes marshes, rock outcrops, and three small prairie-like openings. This study documents the terrestrial vascular flora of Strouds Run State Park and compares it with the flora of the same area reported in 1957. Between 2003 and 2005, 638 species in 367 genera and 108 families were found in the park. This total includes five State-listed, "potentially threatened" taxa: Arabis hirsuta var. adpressipilis, Carex cumberlandensis, Corallorhiza wisteriana, Cystopteris tennesseensis, and Spiranthes ovalis. The number of species increased from 534 to 638 over the course of 49 years, while the percentage of alien species declined from 23.6% to 18.7%. However, the number and abundance of alien species that are invasive have increased greatly since 1957.
23313746|Dogwood anthracnose (Discula destructiva) was first discovered in Illinois in 1995 at Dean Hills Nature Preserve, Fayette County. In the original study, individuals of flowering dogwood (Cornus florida) showed a 97% increase in infection by dogwood anthracnose between July 1995 and August 1996. As all size classes of flowering dogwood were infected, it was predicted that the disease would probably cause the extirpation of this species at the site. Though not extirpated, flowering dogwood has not recovered from the initial infection (1995), when 3475 healthy stems/ha were encountered. Since that initial study, total flowering dogwood stems recorded for the site ranged from a low of 110 stems/ha in 1996, to 540 stems/ha in 2002, and 345 stems/ha in 2004.
23313747|The vascular flora of Izembek National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), where few previous collections had been reported, was collected and recorded at sites selected to represent the totality of environmental variation. A total of 349 species (339 native and 10 introduced) was identified. To provide a comparative phytogeographic framework, we analyzed data from published reports that categorized vascular plant distribution patterns from a circumpolar, North American, and Alaskan perspective. The native flora of the Izembek NWR primarily includes species of circumpolar (38%), eastern Asian (23%), Eurasian (18%), and North American (13%) distribution. The most important longitudinal distributional classes in North America consist of transcontinental (62%) and extreme western species (31%). The annotated list of species in Izembek NWR expands the range of many species, filling a distributional gap in Hultn's Western Pacific Coast district. Forty notable range extensions are reported. The flora of Izembek NWR is primarily made up of boreal species and lacks many of the species considered to be Arctic. Comparison with the Raunkiaer life-form spectrum similarly points to the boreal.
23313745|Isoetes  novae-angliae D.F. Brunt. & D.M. Britton, hyb. nov., represents a sterile hybrid between the tetraploid aquatic pteridophytes I. riparia and I. tuckermanii. It is known only from North Easton, Massachusetts although it formerly likely occurred across the state as well as in Connecticut and southern New Hampshire. Determination of the distribution and nomenclature of this taxon also clarifies the status of a number of early 20th century taxonomic innovations.
23313743|Preanthesis cleistogamy, a form of self-pollination within an enclosed flower prior to opening, was investigated in eight species of Podostemum from South America (P. comatum, P. distichum, P. irgangii, P. muelleri, P. ovatum, P. rutifolium subsp. rutifolium, P. scaturiginum, P. weddellianum) and the North American P. ceratophyllum. Fluorescence microscopy was used to determine whether pollen tubes were present in the stigmas of unopened flowers from 109 collections. Preanthesis cleistogamy was documented in P. weddellianum, representing the second report of this phenomenon in the genus (previously documented in P. ceratophyllum). The 12 collections with preanthesis cleistogamy represent populations from throughout the geographic range of P. weddellianum. It is hypothesized that preanthesis cleistogamy evolved twice within Podostemum, once in P. ceratophyllum and once in P. weddellianum.
23313744|Historical accounts detail numerous uses for poison ivy, poison oak, and other American Toxicodendron spp. (Anacardiaceae), despite their toxicity. The veracity of these accounts has recently been called into question by several sources. In this investigation, a multidisciplinary, hypothesis-driven approach was used to critically evaluate the veracity of such accounts by employing field studies, laboratory experiments, and literature review. Accounts regarding uses in textile production or religious rites were found to be more feasible to evaluate than those pertaining to cooking or medicine. Findings from this study suggest a new interpretation of such accounts and provide novel information regarding both the biology and ethnobotany of these plants.
23314141|The genetic diversity and structure of Quercus rubra L. (Red Oak) in five secondary populations regenerated on old pastures and five paired old-growth populations were compared to determine whether secondary populations may have lost genetic diversity present in the presettlement forest. Old-growth samples had significantly greater nuclear allelic richness than secondary stands at the four microsatellite, simple sequence repeat (SSR), markers tested, but there was no significant difference at three chloroplast SSRs. There was however tenfold greater differentiation (high FST) among secondary forests than among old-growth forests for the chloroplast loci, suggesting greater population isolation at the time of their founding. The young age class in secondary stands had significantly greater chloroplast allelic richness than the old age class, suggesting some recovery as the forest cover increased. Forest cover and patch size at peak deforestation was not correlated with allelic richness in secondary stands, but the power of this test was low. The current size of old-growth stands is, however, positively correlated with levels of genetic diversity. Results suggest that deforestation for agriculture may reduce genetic diversity of forest trees, particularly in the first generation after deforestation, but that some recovery of this diversity is likely in these patchy landscapes. Wind dispersed pollen flow may increase in these areas, but animal dispersed seed flow may be reduced.
23314144|Introduced species make up about 15% of the flora of the Mount Holyoke Range, Hampshire County, Massachusetts, one of the core natural areas in the state. Geographic Information Systems software was used to compare the distribution of sample locations with introduced invasive species, introduced non-invasive species, or only native species as a function of distance from disturbance corridors that included roads and power-line right-of-ways. Habitat preferences were also analyzed for the two groups of introduced species. Thirty-nine percent of 475 geo-referenced sample locations had introduced species. Of these, twice as many had introduced non-invasive species as had introduced invasive species, with Poa compressa the most common species in the first group and Berberis thunbergii the most common in the second group. A high proportion of sample locations for both groups of introduced species were close to disturbance corridors, with about a third of the sample locations with these groups found within 50 m of disturbance corridors and most of the rest found within 300 m. The distributions of both groups of introduced species differed significantly from the distribution of native species, but not from each other. Disturbed habitats had the highest frequency of both groups of introduced species, but their relative frequency differed in other habitats. Introduced invasive species were common in moister habitats, which may restrict their spread in the range, while introduced non-invasive species tended to occupy drier habitats on upper slopes. These more open habitats may function as a refuge for some species in the introduced non-invasive group. However, high frequencies of both groups in disturbed habitats and the similarity in distribution suggests that human activities associated with disturbance corridors and past land use are of major importance in determining the distribution of both groups of introduced species across the landscape.
23314145|Lectotypes are designated for Impatiens fulva Nutt. f. albiflora E.L. Rand & Redfield, and for I. biflora Walter f. immaculata Weath. These are basionyms for two color forms of I. capensis Meerb., indigenous to eastern North America.
23314142|Platanthera sparsiflora is a variable species to which Limnorchis ensifolia and L. laxiflora have been referred. Recently, authors have adopted L. ensifolia for a group of plants that have also been referred to L. laxiflora and P. sparsiflora. None of these existing names apply to a recently delineated but related group, here described as the new species P. tescamnis. This species is distinguished by a small column with short rostellum lobes that position the viscidia above the orifice of the spur. The species exhibits ecological preferences that are unique in the group, occurring at relatively low elevations and in comparatively dry habitats in a hot, arid region. It occurs across the Great Basin and Colorado Plateau and bordering areas in California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado.
23314143|Coastal sandplain heathlands are managed largely by prescribed burning. While it is known that salt spray is an important natural disturbance contributing to the maintenance of coastal heathlands, it is unclear whether fire in coastal areas intensifies the detrimental effects of salt spray on plants growing close to the ocean. We carried out a field experiment to test the interactive effects of fire and salt spray on Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. Following a prescribed fire, one-meter-square plots were established in burned and unburned areas and randomly assigned a control or salt spray treatment. After ten weeks of spray treatments we found that burning stimulated new growth and salt spray consistently increased plant water stress, increased leaf necrosis, and inhibited shoot elongation. Burning did not increase the negative effects of salt spray in individual plants; salt spray and control treated plants growing in burned areas showed less water stress and leaf necrosis than those in unburned areas. This may be due to increased water availability in the burned area resulting from lower biomass and therefore lower competition for water and lower evapotranspiration rates. Burning reduced plant canopy height, decreased vascular plant species richness, and stimulated new growth in plants. Our results suggest that fire indirectly reduces the damaging effects of salt spray by increasing soil water availability and decreasing plant water stress.
23313676|The vascular flora of Coneflower Glacial Drift Hill Prairie Natural Area in Moultrie County, east-central Illinois, was studied during the growing seasons of 2002 and 2003. The prairie is located on a steep SW-facing hillside of the Cerro Gordo Glacial Moraine, overlooking the Kaskaskia River Valley and Lake Shelbyville. The flora was documented by general reconnaissance, and the structure of the vegetation was sampled in September 2003 using 0.25 m2 plots placed along two transects. The site supported 164 vascular plant species (including one named hybrid). The native grasses with the highest importance values were Andropogon gerardii (big bluestem) and Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem). Important forbs included Euphorbia corollata (flowering spurge), Helianthus divaricatus (woodland sunflower), Ratibida pinnata (drooping coneflower), and Comandra umbellata (false toadflax). Exotic species were represented by 28 taxa, 16.4% of the flora. The community had a Floristic Quality Index of 38.82, indicating a site of statewide significance.
23313675|The growth and development of plants is determined by both genetic and environmental factors. In this study, path analysis was employed to investigate the magnitude of developmental variation among six quantitative characters associated with growth in 29 pitch pine (Pinus rigida Mill.) families at Walden Woods, Lincoln, Mass. Seedlings were grown for six months in two environments: sand (poor) and sandy loam (better) with four replications under greenhouse conditions. Data were recorded on stem height and weight, crown height and weight, and total height and weight. Data were analyzed using analysis of variance, heritability, and path analysis. Path analysis measures both direct and indirect effects of independent variables on dependent variables through intermediary variables. Hence, it is a powerful approach for evaluating the causal flow of physiological variables among a system of morphological characters during growth and development. Within this single population of pitch pines, significant genotype-environment interaction was found for most characters. Heritability for four characters was greater for families raised in sand than in sandy loam. Path analysis suggested that the physiological resources may be channeled differentially among various quantitative characters in relation to their environments, indicating that the environment modulates not only the development of individual phenotypic traits but also the relationships among these traits in the entire organism. Moreover we found that environmental effects may overwhelm the genetic expression of a given quantitative trait. Knowledge of relative flexibility/plasticity of individual characters in relation to specific environmental resources may be useful toward understanding developmental biology, growth, and reproduction in plants.
23313672|The survival of populations of rare plant species may be affected both by total levels of seed production and by inbreeding depression expressed upon self-fertilization. We examined natural seed production and rates of self-fertilization in a Nova Scotian lakeshore population of the globally rare Atlantic Coastal Plain plant, Sabatia kennedyana Fernald (Gentianaceae), and determined the effect of self and cross pollinations on fitness at early plant life stages. Seed production was not limited by natural pollination levels. Furthermore, flowers from which pollinators were excluded produced 66% as many seeds as unprotected, naturally pollinated plants, indicating that substantial seed set can occur in the absence of pollinators. The selfing rate of naturally pollinated flowers was estimated as 21% using the inbreeding depression method. Stage-specific inbreeding depression was 19% at germination, and cumulative inbreeding depression from fertilization through germination was 23%. Seed formation (seeds per fertilized ovule) was correlated with proportional germination suggesting linkage or pleiotropy of genes affecting these two life-history stages. Low, early acting inbreeding depression may result from purging of deleterious mutations in low population times during the post-glacial migration of founders into Nova Scotia from the now submerged Continental Shelf habitat. Alternatively, the inbreeding depression values documented for early developmental stages may underestimate its severity at later stages. Crosses between plants in the study population and those at another lake, four km distant, suffered no decrease in performance ("outbreeding depression") at these early life stages.
23313673|Despite the frequent occurrence of hybridization events between broad-leaved members of the genus Potamogeton, few documented reports and descriptions of these taxa are found in North American pondweed literature. Potamogeton crispus and P. praelongus are common broad-leaved pondweed species with overlapping distributions in North America, yet no confirmed report of their hybrid, P.  undulatus, has been previously documented from this continent. We provide the first confirmed report of P.  undulatus in North America, where it was collected from a northeastern Indiana lake. Because most descriptions of P.  undulatus are found in somewhat less accessible nineteenth century European pondweed literature, morphological characters that are diagnostically valuable in distinguishing the hybrid from its parents are discussed and illustrated. A vegetative key to this hybrid and its parental species is also provided.
23313677|A floristic inventory of the remnant pinelands of the U.S.D.A. Subtropical Horticultural Research Station at Chapman Field, Miami-Dade County, Florida was conducted from July 2002 to March 2003. From the two-hectare study site, 159 vascular plant species were documented. These included six ferns and fern allies, two conifers, and 151 angiosperms (representing 49 families and 124 genera). Of the 159 species, 118 are native to North America north of Mexico and 41 are non-native but naturalized. The families with the most species in the study area included Fabaceae (25 spp.), Poaceae (20 spp.), Asteraceae (15 spp.), and Euphorbiaceae (9 spp.). The best-represented genera were Chamaesyce (five spp.), Sida (four spp.), and five genera with three species each: Chamaecrista, Ipomoea, Lantana, Rhynchosia, and Senna. Five species are new records for Miami-Dade County. Ten Florida endemic species, eight Florida threatened species, four Florida endangered species, and one federally listed endangered species were documented.
23313674|Although reported to be essentially glabrous, a hairy ovary summit is characteristic of the fruit of Amelanchier lucida, and this helps to explain some of the variation in its taxonomic treatment by recent authors. In many instances plants would have been identified as A. stolonifera. Flowering material is here described for the first time. The erect racemes have lower pedicels 822 mm long, and petals are 67.5 mm long and 2.53.3 mm wide. At flowering, the leaves are tomentose but towards the end of flowering the thick tomentum is lost from the outer surfaces of the sepals and the larger leaves. Stoloniferous habit, glossy leaves, ascending sepals, and pubescent ovary summit are a distinctive combination of features of A. lucida. A key to the stoloniferous species of Amelanchier in Nova Scotia is included.
23313595|Although rare plant species are widely regarded as threatened by invasive plant species, few concrete data document the actual prevalence of invasives at sites with rare plant species. Data from comprehensive Conservation and Research Plans produced by the New England Wild Flower Society for 81 species of state-listed plants in New England provide quantitative information on the biogeographic distribution of invasive species where rare plants occur; their associations with multiple habitat variables and other threats; and hypothesized correlations with declines of rare plant populations. Eighteen invasive species were identified as co-occurring with rare plants; Lythrum salicaria was the most frequent and widespread. The spatial distribution of invasive species at rare plant sites paralleled large-scale patterns of both rare and invasive species richness and frequency throughout the region. However, invasive species occurred at only a subset of rare species sites, principally clustered along major rivers in New England. Connecticut reported the highest frequency and diversity of invasives, which declined with latitude. Invasives co-occurred with 38 (47%) of 81 rare species at 10.4% of 820 rare plant populations studied. For affected rare taxa, invasive species posed threats to a mean of 37.7% of their New England populations. Paired comparisons of invaded and uninvaded rare plant populations revealed a significant association of invasives with roads and with other anthropogenic threats. Populations of rare taxa in proximity to invasives showed higher (but statistically insignificant) rates of decline; classification analysis indicated that decline was best explained by the same habitat variables that were associated with invasive species presence, rather than by the presence of invasives alone. Thus, invasive species are both a direct threat and a symptom of larger landscape variables that influence the persistence of rare species.
23313598|The United Plant Savers' (UpS) botanical sanctuary in southeastern Ohio was created to protect native medicinal plants by protecting their habitat. Located in the southern unglaciated Allegheny Plateau physiographic province, this 155 ha preserve is 70% (110 ha) deciduous forest, 30% (45 ha) old fields, and contains one small opening that was surveyed to determine whether it was a remnant prairie. A floristic survey of the vascular plants of the wooded portions of the sanctuary and the opening revealed 358 species in 238 genera and 97 families. This total includes two state-listed, "potentially threatened" species: Corallorhiza wisteriana and Juglans cinerea. Nine percent of the species identified are nonnative to southeastern Ohio. The vegetation found in the opening does not indicate that it is actually a prairie.
23313597|The Hispaniolan species of Miconia section Cremanium with setose-serrate leaves (i.e., the M. desportesii complex) include M. desportesii, M. tetrastoma, M. monciona, and M. sphagnicola. Species descriptions, nomenclatural information, specimen citations, and eco-geographical characterizations for these species are presented, along with an identification key. These species occur from 800 to 2400 m elevation in moist montane forests, moist forests on limestone, cloud forests, and moist forests of Pinus occidentalis. All are endemic to Hispaniola and restricted in distribution except for M. tetrastoma, which is more widespread and also occurs in Cuba.
23313596|Jaltomata andersonii (Solanaceae), here named, is distributed on the western slope of the Andes, in the Departments of Ancash and Lima, Peru, from 2300 to 3400 m of elevation. This species differs from others of the genus by having an unarticulated axis connecting the flower to the plant where all others have both a peduncle and a pedicel. The following combination of features also characterize this species: the hairs of leaves and axes are gland-tipped; the petiole is no longer than 1 cm; the flowers are solitary; the corolla is broadly crateriform-rotate, purple, and up to 3.7 cm in diameter; and the filaments are extremely villous at their bases.
23313650|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Pseudosmodingium (Anacardiaceae) is presented. The genus consists of four extant and two fossil species endemic to Mexico. The extant species are small trees from tropical dry forests. The two fossil species have been described from Oligocene strata from Puebla in Central Mexico. Among extant species, P. andrieuxii and P. multifolium were considered previously as separate taxa; however, we concluded based on both vegetative and floral characters that they can be assigned to the same species, P. andrieuxii. The rest of the species (P. barkleyi, P. perniciosum, and P. virletii) are very similar to one another in floral morphology, but variable in leaf morphology. Comments, descriptions, additional notes, specimen citations, distribution, diagnoses, and a key for the extant species of Pseudosmodingium are presented.
23313648|Keys and descriptions are presented for the 16 species of Physalis (Solanaceae) commonly found growing without cultivation in the southeastern United States, as well as for two cultivated species that sometimes escape and persist in disturbed habitats. The study was initiated as part of the Southeast Flora Project, and will ultimately be incorporated into the treatment of the genus for the Flora of North America.
23313649|Vernal pools are common on the Columbia Plateau of eastern Washington, where they occur on basalt bedrock within the channels scoured by the Pleistocene Missoula Floods. This is the first extensive floristic survey of these pools. Eighty-five percent of the 283 plant taxa are native, and the majority of these are annual. The Washington vernal pools have strong floristic affinities with their counterparts in California; 34% of the native species and 65% of genera in the Columbia Plateau pools also occur in California vernal pools. The remainder include numerous regional and locally endemic taxa. The total native flora is two-thirds that of the California vernal pools, but the average per-pool taxon richness in Washington is greater.
23314753|Canada mayflower (Maianthemum canadense) is a rhizomatous, perennial herb whose genets consist of multiple ramets. In a given year, ramets exist as either flowering or vegetative shoots. The production of a flowering shoot requires the commitment of the apical meristem. The identity of ramets (vegetative, flowering, or absent) directly basipetal and acropetal to a focal ramet along a linear rhizome is here termed the context of the focal ramet. A given ramet may transition from one context to another over a given year. Transitions in shoot type (a consequence of meristem commitment) occur within a developmental phase while transitions involving loss of genet integrity (a consequence of fragmentation) result in a change in phase. Each ramet begins as an acropetal ramet and transitions through several phases before becoming "isolated" (not connected to a basipetal or acropetal ramet). In this study, ages of ramets varied significantly, with flowering shoots more likely to be produced by older ramets than vegetative shoots. Isolated ramets were older on average than ramets in all other phases. The contexts and phases occupied by vegetative ramets differed significantly from those occupied by flowering ramets. Ramets producing a flowering shoot were more likely than expected to be isolated (> 50% in both years) while isolated ramets with a vegetative shoot were more likely than expected to produce a flowering shoot in the following year. Ramets with a vegetative shoot were more likely than expected to produce a vegetative shoot next year if the ramet was connected to both basipetal and acropetal ramets.
23314754|A floristic inventory of Morningside Nature Center in Alachua County, Florida, was conducted from May 2001 to April 2003. From the 112.5-hectare park, 527 vascular plant species were collected (not including hybrids). These included 9 ferns, 5 conifers, and 513 angiosperms (representing 103 families and 310 genera). Of the 527 species, 456 were native to North America north of Mexico and 71 were non-native but naturalized. Five plant communities are recognized in the park: pine flatwoods, which cover 53.6% of the park; sandhills, which cover 21.5% of the park; ruderal areas, which cover 20.1% of the park; cypress swamps, which cover 4.4% of the park; and flatwoods depressions, which cover 0.4% of the park. The plant families best represented at Morningside include the Asteraceae with 71 species, Poaceae with 60 species, Fabaceae with 42 species, Cyperaceae with 32 species, Ericaceae with 15 species, Lamiaceae with 15 species, and Euphorbiaceae with 14 species. The largest genera at Morningside include Quercus (11 species and 2 named hybrids), Desmodium (9 spp.), Cyperus and Hypericum (8 spp. each), and Asclepias and Rhynchospora (7 spp. each). Twenty-two species are new records for Alachua County. Nine species growing at Morningside were found to be at or near the northern or southern limits of their range. Finally, six Florida endemics (or near endemics) were found in the park.
23314752|Fossil leaves assigned to the disjunct rosaceous genus Neviusia A. Gray, N. dunthornei DeVore, Moore, Pigg & Wehr sp. nov. (Rosaceae, tribe Kerrieae) are described from the lower-middle Eocene One Mile Creek locality near the town of Princeton, southern British Columbia, Canada. The leaves are elliptic to broadly ovate, seven-lobed, up to 4.9 cm long  5.6 cm wide with craspedodromous venation and two to three sizes of marginal teeth. They bear a striking resemblance to N. cliftonii Shevock, Ertter & Taylor, the recently discovered species of the Mount Shasta area of northern California, and differ markedly from the type species N. alabamensis A. Gray of southeastern North America. The occurrence in the Okanogan Highlands of N. dunthornei marks the first fossil evidence for the small, rosaceous tribe Kerrieae, and further documents the lower-middle Eocene as a time of major radiation of many temperate families, including the Rosaceae.
23314755|Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time for 303 individuals of 112 taxa and cultivars and five hybrids from 16 genera, nearly all from eastern Canada and the eastern United States. Counts for several taxa from China, Japan, the United Kingdom and for several garden cultivars of Old World taxa are reported. Also included are seven corrections and changes of identifications for previously published reports for taxa in Solidago. The majority of the reports are for asters listed in this paper under the generic name Symphyotrichum (including Virgulus) plus species of Aster (including Asteromoea, Diplactis, and Kalimeris), Callistephus, Doellingeria, Eurybia, Galatella, Ionactis, Oclemena, and Sericocarpus, and for goldenrods in Solidago and Euthamia. The following are first reports for the taxa: Aster pyrenaeus cv. "Lutetia", 2n = 36 + 24 supernumeraries, cult. Ontario; Solidago altiplanities, 2n = 18 from Texas; S. arenicola, 2n = 36 from Alabama; S. glomerata 2n = ca. 126 (14x) from North Carolina; S. speciosa subsp. pallida, 2n = 18 from South Dakota; Symphyotrichum plumosum, 2n = 8 (two populations) from Florida; and S. tradescanti, 2n = 32 from Maine. All other counts confirm previous reports for the taxa. A number of the reports are for rare taxa in Ontario: Solidago arguta, 2n = 18, first count for Ontario; Symphyotrichum praealtum var. praealtum, 2n = 32; S. prenanthoides, 2n = 32, first counts for Ontario (8 populations); and S. shortii, 2n = 16. A number of the counts are first reports for a particular taxon in a state (e.g., Solidago altissima subsp. altissima, 2n = 36 from Tennessee; S. brachyphylla, 2n = 18 from Florida; S. canadensis var. hargeri, 2n = 18 from Virginia; Symphyotrichum novae-angliae, 2n = 10 from Georgia and North Carolina; S. priceae, 2n = 64 from Georgia). Differences in the karyotypes of Old and New World species of asters are discussed.
23314756|The vegetation of an eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis)-white pine (Pinus strobus) stand at Arcadia Wildlife Sanctuary, Easthampton, Massachusetts, was studied in 1963, in 1975, and again in 199899. Hemlock remained dominant from 1963 through 1999 despite extensive mortality of smaller stems. White pine and two minor canopy species, red maple (Acer rubrum) and black cherry (Prunus serotina), also declined. Changes in stem size structure of tree populations within the stand may have reflected in part increasing stand maturity, resulting in fewer and larger trees. In addition, low recruitment into the canopy and numerous tree deaths between 1963 and 1975 occurred at a time of widespread regional drought. Tree seedlings, nearly absent from the site in 1963, were well established by 1975, approximately five years after rainfall amounts returned to normal levels, but extensive mortality of canopy trees continued through 1998, particularly hemlock and black cherry. Tree deaths during this latter period coincided with defoliation by gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar) and wind throw during severe ice storms in the winter of 19961997. Hemlock wooly adelgids (Adelges tsugae) were not observed at the site until after the 1998 sampling; thus this study may serve as a baseline for assessing adelgid damage in the future.
23313496|Two new species of Gesneriaceae from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica from the genera Paradrymonia and Nautilocalyx are described and illustrated. A new name in Nautilocalyx is proposed for P. bullata and a full description is provided.
23313494|An investigation of the vascular plant flora of the wetlands in the Chapare, an extremely high-precipitation region along the base of the Bolivian Andes, was undertaken from 1994 to 1996. One hundred fifty-one species in 52 families and 107 genera were identified as occurring in the region's wetlands. In contrast to the terrestrial flora of the Chapare and of other regions in the Andean forelands, Chapare wetlands were found to be characteristically species-poor (549 species). Nevertheless, the Chapare wetland flora contained a number of rare or noteworthy species, and represented the southern distributional limit for a number of taxa. The diversity of Chapare "wetland species" (i.e., species considered to be strongly associated with Neotropical wetlands) was low relative to other South American lowland regions when considered in terms of total number of species and from species-area curves. A regional trend toward fewer wetland species with increased precipitation was apparent; however, data supporting this relationship were inconclusive. Despite low floristic similarities (Srensen's Index) between study sites, the majority of the Chapare study sites were closely situated in an ordination by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) of the floras of 46 wetlands distributed throughout Bolivia. At the regional scale, floristic similarities with other regions considered in this study were relatively low. As might be expected, an ordination of the regional data indicated that the Chapare wetland flora was most strongly associated with the other lowland Bolivian regions, while the most geographically distant regions were also the furthest removed in ordination space.
23313495|Neidium rudimentarum is a rare species identified from only two localities in the United States. Rudimentary canals on either side of the valve, that extend 1025 m from the terminal apices, are unique to this species within the genus. At the internal termination point, the canals open into chambered areolae that form a well-developed matrix of interconnected chambers. In addition to the canals, linear slits are unique for the external opening of the areolae. The type locality Bluehole pool/Inskip River, New Jersey is a cool-water, oligotrophic system with a groundwater source from the Potomac-Raritan-Magothy aquifer. Neidium hamatum, from Rio Tapajs, Brazil is the closest known taxon in general morphology, however it has complete longitudinal canals extending from apex to apex. The rudimentary canal of this species is in distinct contrast to the multiple canals of N. tumescens and is thus far unique within the genus Neidium sensu lato.
23313632|Platt Park is a 43.3-hectare (107-acre) natural area situated in the Southwest Hills Eco-region of Southbury, in New Haven County, Connecticut. Characterized by Triassic sandstone and trap rock ridges, the area offers a diversity of habitats for plant life. This investigation of the vegetation types of Platt Park provides information relevant to the preservation and management of natural areas and critical habitats. Abundance data derived from 263 quadrats were analyzed by the computer program TWINSPAN, circumscribing seven cover types. These cover types are: the Wolffia spp. Cover Type, the Bromus inermis Cover Type, the Juniperus virginianaCarex pensylvanica Cover Type, the Acer saccharumOstrya virginiana Cover Type, the A. saccharumBerberis thunbergiiLindera benzoin Cover Type, and the Tsuga canadensis Cover Type. A ShrublandWoodland Cover Type was also represented, comprising mainly introduced and cultivated species. Each cover type and its corresponding habitat are discussed in the context of the flora of the state and region.
23313631|We present a comprehensive vascular flora of the Acadia National Park region of Maine based on over 20 years of recent fieldwork and a compilation of historic records and vouchers. We documented 1135 taxa of vascular plants (1055 species, 448 genera in 110 families) in the Acadia National Park region: 1079 taxa from Mount Desert Island, 708 taxa from Isle au Haut, and 398 taxa from Schoodic Peninsula. Over 20% of the taxa in the catalogue are historic records and have not been documented in the study area since 1980. Forty-five taxa historically published as extant in the study area were misidentified and are therefore not included in the flora. Non-native taxa represent 25% of the regional flora, 24 of these are invasive. Fourteen taxa listed as endangered or threatened in Maine have been documented in the study area, 12 of which have been observed within the last 10 years.
23314131|The vascular plant community in a freshwater tidal wetland on the lower Connecticut River was studied in 2000. The effects of abiotic conditions on density and species density of plants in 70 samples, each 0.25 m2 in area, were characterized. Sixty species were recorded. The mean species density was highest in shallow water because the number of emergent species in the community was far greater than the number of submerged species, which occurred with higher frequency in deeper water. Plant density had a bimodal distribution because of the different responses of emergent and submerged plants to water depth and was lowest in shallow water, where physiological stress, physical disturbance, and possibly herbivory are suspected of being limiting. Ordination and regression analyses found that water depth and the amount of organic matter and nitrogen in the sediment had the greatest effect on wetland plant density, although other variables also were influential. Abundance of emergent and submerged species differed in their responses to ammonium and nitrate levels. Overall species density was most strongly correlated with water depth. Several plant associations, including associations of submerged and emergent species, were identified, based on shared affinities for environmental conditions.
23314129|An unexpected concentration of calcicole mosses and lichens has been discovered at and near a small spring seep on the granite headwall of the North Basin of Mt. Katahdin, Piscataquis County, Maine. Water samples from the spring were circumneutral and high in calcium ion content, whereas other springs, ponds, and streams on the mountain tested acidic and low in calcium. Because the Katahdin granite contains no primary carbonate minerals, it is suggested that the source of calcium enrichment in the North Basin spring water is secondary calcium carbonate (calcite) precipitated in cavities and fractures near the base of the upper Katahdin granite and its subsequent dissolution and mobilization by percolating groundwater. Plagioclase, epidote, and other calcic minerals in the granite supply the primary calcium ions. The moss calcicoles grew in small discontinuous patches on wet humified peaty soil over alpine bedrock ledges in communities having floristics and water chemistry similar to lowland rich fens. Present in or near the seep were mosses previously unrecorded for New England or Maine [Loeskypnum wickesiae (Grout) Tuom., Neckera oligocarpa Bruch in Hartm., Pseudoleskea radicosa (Mitt.) Mac. & Kindb., Tortella tortuosa var. fragilifolia (Jur.) Limpr., Warnstorfia sarmentosa (Wahlenb.) Hedens], one lichen [Hymenelia cyanocarpa (Anzi) Lutzoni], reported here for the first time from North America, and another lichen (Thelidium minutulum Krb.) for the first time from the contiguous United States. An area adjacent to the seep, but unaffected by calcareous seep-water, was remarkable for a concentration of rare lichen species of acidic rocks, including Catillaria contristans (Nyl.) Zahlbr. and Lecanora caesiosora Poelt, that have not previously been reported from North America. The bryophyte and lichen flora of the seep area is an example of a Holocene alpine microrefugium. Refugia such as these can serve as a source of propagules that allow new populations to establish elsewhere in mountainous terrain, or beyond, during climatic and other environmental change. Therefore, extant, cryptic microrefugia are important biogeographically and especially worthy of preservation efforts.
23314132|The genus Diodella of Small is not synonymous with Hedyotis  Diodella as is indicated in Index Nominum Genericorum. The two taxa have different nomenclatural types and belong to different tribes of the Rubiaceae. The first mentioned has a single seed in each locule and the second has many seeds. The stipules and seeds also differ markedly. Consequently the spermacocoid genus Diodella (typified by the type of Diodia rigida) is strongly distinguished from Hedyotis  Diodella [typified by the type of Hedyotis boscii DC. = Oldenlandia boscii (DC.) Chapm.] by many significant morphological features and should not be confused with it. The type of Small's genus Diodella is the type specimen of D. rigida, a perennial species not known to occur in the United States, although mistakenly included by Long and Lakela as well as by Small. The closely related but annual Diodella teres is common and widely distributed throughout much of the eastern United States, Mexico, Central America, and the Greater Antilles as well as tropical South America. The perennial Diodella rigida (= Diodia apiculata K. Schum.) is found in southern Mexico and throughout much of Central America, the Antilles, and northern and eastern South America. Possibly a case could be made for conserving Diodella with a new typefrom a species that both occurs in southern Florida and is an annual as specified in the protologue. However, conservation seems both unnecessary and undesirable since there are at least two validly published and available generic names with priority over Diodella.
23314130|Five infraspecific taxa have been recognized in Cymopterus glomeratus (= C. acaulis): vars. glomeratus (= acaulis), fendleri, greeleyorum, higginsii, and parvus. The results of previous phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequence and morphological data have supported the close association of these five varieties, although the relationships among them could not be discerned. The recognition of infraspecific taxa within C. glomeratus is controversial. Multivariate analysis of variance and principal component analysis of 288 specimens representing the morphological variability and geographic distribution of this species complex were conducted to test the validity of these infraspecific taxa. Results show that most of the characters previously used to recognize these varieties are highly variable within the taxa. Although analysis of variance demonstrated some statistical differences among the varieties, patterns were not consistent. No clearly separated clusters are revealed in the principal component analysis and all five varieties were intermixed on the plots of the principal components. On the basis of the results of both phylogenetic and multivariate analyses, we propose that plants in this species complex be recognized as one species, C. glomeratus, with no varieties. The nomenclature and typification of this species are presented.
23314508|Long-term reassessment of floristic diversity in created wetlands is needed to gain an understanding of how wetlands created for mitigation mature floristically. A thorough floristic survey of a 17-year old created wetland in southeastern New Hampshire was conducted to compare current data to a 1992 floristic study of the site. The flora in 2002 included 110 species, whereas the total number of species recorded in 1992 was 101. Not only had diversity increased, but the flora had changed in a 10-year span; the floristic lists of the two years showed 79 shared species. Srensen's Index of Similarity revealed a floristic similarity of 75%. Carex atherodes, new to the site in 2002, represents a new state record for New Hampshire. As there is a great need for long-term evaluation of mitigation wetlands, these data contribute toward a better understanding of the maturation of created wetlands, and can be used to make more meaningful floristic comparisons with natural wetlands and evaluate the long term success of wetland mitigation projects.
23314501|A study of six wetlands of the Bolivian Cloud Forest was undertaken from 1994 to 1997. Seventy-five species, in 29 families and 49 genera, were identified as being associated with wetland habitats in the Bolivian Cloud Forest. The flora was composed of a mixture of fairly common, ruderal species and of species typical of high Andean (alpine/Puna) aquatic systems. In contrast to the terrestrial flora of cloud forest habitats, these wetlands were found to contain few endemic or rare species. At the site level, it appeared that the wetlands could be characterized as species-poor relative to wetlands in most other Bolivian regions; however, this determination was confounded by a disproportionate number of ponds (a characteristically species-poor wetland type) among the cloud forest study sites. Floristic similarities (Srensen's Index) between cloud forest study sites were relatively low; nevertheless, these systems were closely grouped in an ordination by Detrended Correspondence Analysis of 46 wetlands from throughout Bolivia. Regional-scale diversity comparisons were confounded by the inability to confidently estimate the area of inundated habitat in the Bolivian Cloud Forest. However, it appeared that diversity in the cloud forest wetlands was substantially lower than that of terrestrial cloud forest habitats. Likewise, it appeared that the Bolivian Cloud Forest wetland flora was species-poor relative to wetland floras of other Bolivian regions. Floristic similarities were low between the Bolivian Cloud Forest and other regions within Bolivia and in various South and Central American montane regions. An ordination of the regional data suggested that the Bolivian Cloud Forest wetland flora was most closely associated with the other two Bolivian montane regions included in this analysis.
23314503|An inventory of the bryophyte flora of Mt. Everett and vicinity, southwestern Massachusetts, a 795 m mountain with an unusual dwarf Pinus rigida (pitch pine) summit forest, produced records for 109 mosses and 45 liverworts (153 species and one variety). The summit pine vegetation contained some bryophytes known to occur in lowland pitch pine forest elsewhere in the northeastern United States, but no species unique to this vegetation type. Some species more characteristic of higher elevation mountains with red spruce-balsam fir forest in the northeastern United States were present in the summit and subsummit areas of Mt. Everett, especially the latter. These azonal northern bryophytes may be descendents of populations of species that were more abundant in the past. Species richness on the mountain increased from summit to lowland, and the subsummit area contained more species than the summit forest area. Substantial differences exist between the bryofloras of Mt. Everett and Mt. Greylock, Massachusetts, 70 km to the north, reflecting edaphic and climatic dissimilarities between the two areas. Bryum flaccidum, Plagiomnium medium, Pseudotaxiphyllum distichaceum, and Sphagnum quinquefarium, on the basis of collections from Mt. Everett and vicinity, are added to the flora of Massachusetts.
23314505|Sporocladopsis jackii is a new species of green seaweed from eastern Canada and Maine. The species is abundant in late summer and is a conspicuous part of the epizoic flora on living shells of the mud snail, Ilyanassa obsoleta. The alga comprises a densely packed, branched filamentous base from which arise numerous unbranched to sparsely branched erect free axes. Multicellular attenuate hairs are rare to common and terminal on erect axes. Sporangia are clavate, terminal or lateral, usually borne singly, and produced abundantly in summer. Prior floristic accounts from eastern North America may have included S. jackii under the name Pilinia rimosa, now known to refer to a phaeophyte. Pulse amplitude modulation fluorometry of chlorophyll fluorescence (Phyto-PAM) for pigment analysis confirm microscopic observations of the communities living on snails as consisting of primarily Cyanobacteria and Chlorophyta.
23314506|Interspecific relationships of Betula remain elusive, making it difficult to examine morphological diversification and historical biogeography of the genus. In this study, sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to estimate relationships within Betula. Subgenera and sections or subsections, as traditionally circumscribed, are not monophyletic. Morphological characters traditionally used to categorize major groupings of Betula may have independently evolved more than once, including the shrubby habit and racemose female catkin arrangement. Betula maximowicziana is not united with other species of section Betulaster, which is unique in having a racemose female catkin arrangement and poorly developed side lobes of bracts. However, Betula nigra of section Eubetula falls within section Betulaster. Three biogeographic disjunctions are recognized in Betula, two between eastern Asia and eastern North America (B. costataB. alleghaniensis and B. alnoidesB. nigra) and one between central Asia and eastern North America (B. medwediewiB. lenta). Our results support the closer affinity of B. uber, which is an endangered species in eastern North America, to B. lenta than to B. alleghaniensis. Nonetheless, interspecific relationships of Betula are generally weakly supported due to the small number of informative characters of the DNA region, and more data are needed to further test the hypotheses.
23313639|The non-native vascular flora of Massachusetts is listed with earliest and latest dates of occurrence. Each entry is annotated to indicate which taxa have become established members of the flora and which have not. Specimen data were compiled from over 25 herbaria, supplemented by reports from early floristic publications. A total of 1317 non-native taxa are documented; 737 are treated as established members of the state's flora (29% of the flora); 23 taxa persist at or near former human habitations (1%); 559 taxa are treated as non-established waifs (22%). The current figure of 30% alien taxa is similar to other New England states and is a significant reduction from the 45% tallied in the 1999 state flora. A revised statistical summary of the state's vascular flora is provided.
23313638|Rich Mesic Forest, a Northeastern variant of the species-rich Mixed Mesophytic Forest association of eastern North America, is an Acer saccharumdominated forest type typically associated with calcareous bedrock and nutrient-rich, mull soils. Rich Mesic Forest (RMF) is a priority for conservation in the Northeast due to its limited areal extent, high plant species richness, and numerous rare taxa, yet the community characteristics and environmental correlates of this forest type are incompletely understood. This study undertook a quantitative classification of RMF of the northeastern edge of the Berkshire Plateau in western Massachusetts. Cluster analysis of data from ten sites identified two vegetation types within the RMF community, the Acer saccharumAllium tricoccumCaulophyllum thalictroides Type (AAC) and the Acer saccharumDicentra cucullariaPolystichum acrostichoides Type (ADP); in addition, two subtypes were distinguished within ADP. Ordination of vegetation data using detrended correspondence analysis identified increased soil pH and calcium concentration as key environmental factors associated with variation within RMF and differentiation of RMF from the typical northern and transition hardwoods vegetation of the region. On sites with high soil pH and nutrients, vegetation variation was primarily associated with physiography, particularly the presence of exposed bedrock and solar insolation levels as controlled by slope and aspect. Occurrences of RMF on steep sites with frequent bedrock exposures and high insolation provide habitat for uncommon plant species reaching their northeastern range limits in the Northeast, and are of particular interest for biodiversity conservation. Comparisons between the results of this study in western Massachusetts and prior research on Mesophytic Forests in other regions of eastern North America illustrate a striking constancy in species composition, with over 70% of common species in Mesophytic Forests of the Southeast and Midwest also being recorded in RMF in our study region.
23313303|Jaltomata paneroi (Solanaceae) of northern Peru is described and illustrated. This is the only species in the genus that has a green, campanulate-rotate corolla 2325 mm across and 510 mm deep. This species, and at least six others of the genus, provide red floral nectar. This species is self-compatible and its berries are eaten by humans.
23313305|Morphological and nuclear ribosomal Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) sequence data were used to examine relationships among the genera in the Corylopsis complex, comprising Corylopsis, Distylium, Eustigma, Fortunearia, and Sinowilsonia. The ITS-2 based cladogram had the lowest resolution, whereas the ITS-1 and the pooled data of ITS-1 and ITS-2 produced similar phylogenies with complete resolution of intergeneric relationships within the complex. Both morphological data and ITS DNA sequences support separation of Corylopsis from the other genera, and a closer relationship of Sinowilsonia to Fortunearia than to Distylium. The monophyly of Eustigma-Fortunearia-Sinowilsonia was supported by the ITS sequence data. This study substantiates Endress's recent interpretation of the intergeneric relationships in the Corylopsis complex. The ITS phylogeny also supports the hypothesis that floral structures in members of the Corylopsis complex appear to have been modified for wind pollination in the course of evolution.
23313307|A classification of the American species of the tropical fern genus Oleandra is presented along with a review of previous work on the genus. This treatment contrasts with earlier work by reduction of a number of taxa that have been based on variable species. The American species are reduced to four; those that occur in Africa, Asia, and Pacific islands are also briefly noted.
23313310|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine achene epidermal features in species of Carex section Mitratae and the allied section Acrocystis found in Turkey. Members of section Mitratae share a particular achene phenotype. Micromorphological characters appear to be conservative, and show little variation between species of section Mitratae. Comparative data of achene micromorphology support the placement of C. tomentosa within section Acrocystis.
23313304|Lichens in the genus Cladonia are characterized by an erect, photosynthetic secondary thallus called a podetium. Growth of the podetium is influenced primarily by a meristem-like bundle of fungal tissue near the apex, which lacks direct contact with the algal host. In most Cladonia species the podetium, whether branched or unbranched, grows perpendicular to the growing surface and the habit of the podetium is erect. Apothecia are borne apically and they are generally upward-facing. In C. incrassata, vertical growth may be interrupted very early in ontogeny, resulting in mature podetia that are deflexed. In these podetia, the hymenial (spore-bearing) surface of the apothecium faces the growing surface instead of facing upward. In addition to variability of their habit, mature podetia of C. incrassata may be branched or unbranched. When branching occurs it is initiated by divisions of the fungal meristem, either early in ontogeny or later, as a by-product of the migration of the meristem during deflexion. Unbranched podetia are narrow, club-like structures with a more or less continuous outer layer, or they may be wide with a flabelliform-hooded habit and a deeply fissured exterior. Branched podetia resemble C. cristatella, which has contributed to confusion in the taxonomic literature surrounding this species.
23313309|Eighteen moss species new to Massachusetts and 194 additional county records are reported. The new state records are briefly discussed. All county records are listed in an appendix. The moss flora of Massachusetts now stands at 356 species and 16 varieties.
23313306|This poorly understood and confusing group is centered around Cyperus retroflexus, until recently known as C. uniflorus. Typification of C. uniflorus var. pumilus is discussed, and the following new combination is made: C. retroflexus var. pumilus. Two varieties of C. uniflorus are discussed and elevated to species: C. floribundus and C. pseudothyrsiflorus. Included is a dichotomous key treating the aforementioned taxa and putative allies of C. pseudothyrsiflorus: C. hermaphroditus, C. lentiginosus, C. tenuis, and C. thyrsiflorus.
23313308|Tridens flavus is reported for the first time from Wisconsin, where specimens from 15 sites in eight southern counties were collected between 1961 and 1997. Nine of these sites were discovered after 1990. In 1997, this grass was collected in three northwestern Illinois counties from which it is previously unreported. Evidence of the recent spread north by this species is discussed.
23313321|The slopes of log-log species-area curves have been studied extensively and found to be influenced by the range of areas under study. Two such studies of eastern United States floras have yielded species-area curve slopes which differ by more than 100%: 0.251 and 0.113. The first slope may be too steep because the flora of the world was included, and both may be too steep because noncontiguous areas were used. These two hypotheses were tested using a set of nested floras centered in Ohio and continuing up to the flora of the world. The results suggest that this set of eastern United States floras produces a log-log species-area curve with a slope of approximately 0.20 with the flora of the world excluded, and regardless of whether or not the floras are from nested areas. Genera- and family-area curves are less steep than species-area curves and show similar patterns. Taxa ratio curves also increase with area, with the species/family ratio showing the steepest slope.
23313323|In order to determine the likelihood of hybridization involving Ranunculus gmelinii and R. hyperboreus, petal length, presence or absence of receptacle pubescence, pollen stainability, and maximum leaf lobe number were recorded in 60 plants from throughout boreal and arctic North America. Within a group of 37 plants with pubescent receptacles, and thus referable to R. gmelinii, a subgroup of 16 with aborted pollen had significantly fewer leaf lobes based on the Kruskal-Wallis test, suggesting that they were hybrids of R. gmelinii and R. hyperboreus. The type specimens of R. hyperboreus var. turquetilianus and R. yukonensis have high percentages of aborted pollen and both are referred to R. gmelinii  R. hyperboreus. Past emphasis on phenotypic plasticity and a lack of understanding of the potential importance of hybridization may be limiting to necessary improvements in classification.
23313318|Little Dollar Lake peatland is a 14 ha, lake-fill, poor fen peatland complex on Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Field studies over three years revealed the peatland to be composed of seven contiguous mats characterized by several habitats. These habitats included narrow floating mats; extensive grounded mats with hummock-hollow zonation dominated by Sphagnum spp., Chamaedaphne calyculata, and Carex oligosperma; and a lagg adjacent to the upland. Lagg habitats were dominated by Carex spp. and Calamagrostis canadensis. The bryophyte flora of the peatland was characterized by eleven species of Sphagnum that dominated the floating and grounded mats surrounding Little Dollar Lake. The total bryophyte flora (liverworts, peat mosses, and mosses) consisted of 36 species while the vascular flora (pteridophytes, gymnosperms, and angiosperms) consisted of 93 species.
23313319|A new species of octoploid, dry-fruited prickly-pear (Opuntia subgenus Opuntia), O. pinkavae, is described from the ArizonaUtah boundary region. Opuntia pinkavae is most closely allied with O. aurea, a dry-fruited endemic, although its gross morphology resembles that of O. macrorhiza, a fleshy-fruited species.
23313320|Sequence data of the chloroplast matK gene generated a phylogeny of Liquidambar containing two robust clades. One clade consisted of the Chinese species L. acalycina and L. formosana, while the other was composed of L. orientalis from Turkey and the North American L. styraciflua. The data support a close relationship between the western Asian and North American species, but not the division of Liquidambar into section Cathayambar (L. formosana) and section Euliquidambar (L. acalycina, L. orientalis and L. styraciflua). Sequence divergence of the matK gene ranged from 0.1 to 1.0% among Liquidambar species and the estimated divergence times of the disjunct species in the genus were 4590 mya, which agrees with the fossil record.
23313322|A synopsis of the genus Macropharynx is provided. Macropharynx renteriae is reported for the first time from Mesoamerica. A new combination, M. steyermarkii is proposed here.
23313291|Isoetes appalachiana, sp. nov., is an element of the I. engelmannii complex of North America. Its distinct cytology, spore morphology, and distribution are illustrated and described. Although widely distributed in the eastern United States, it appears to be most common in the Appalachian Mountains. Isoetes appalachiana is tetraploid; it is suspected to be an allopolyploid which evolved from the chromosome doubling of I.  altonharvillii, the sterile hybrid between I. engelmannii (s. str.) and I. valida.
23313292|Propagation of the endangered hemiparasite Schwalbea americana was conducted in the presence of several species of potential host plants. Seeds were germinated and the seedlings transferred to pots containing potential host plants. Potted seedlings and potential hosts then were transplanted to field sites adjacent to a population of S. americana from which the seed had been collected. Germination of seedlings was >90% after a wet-cold treatment; a dry-cold treatment resulted in low germination. Seedlings grown in association with seedlings of the grass Schizachyrium scoparium did not differ in size or longevity from seedlings grown alone. Growth of seedlings was slightly greater in the presence of host plants than without, but seedlings still achieved only limited size in greenhouse conditions before transplantation (2 to 4 mm in width and height). After transplantation to the field the majority of seedlings died rapidly, but several persisted for over 45 days without showing appreciable growth. Poor seedling establishment and survival are believed to contribute to the rarity of this species. The development of improved methods for the propagation and transplantation of S. americana, and the greater understanding of the causes for the rarity of this endangered species, will increase options for recovery strategies.
23313293|Diploid chromosome counts (2x = 2n = 28) are reported for the first time in 12 elm taxa newly introduced into the United States from China. These are Ulmus bergmanniana, U. bergmanniana var. lasiophylla, U. castaneifolia, U. changii, U. chenmoui, U. elongata, U. gaussenii, U. glaucescens, U. lamellosa, U. lanceaefolia, U. szechuanica, and U. taihangshanensis.
23313290|Paleoecological studies at Portage Marsh in northwestern Indiana provide a Holocene record of local populations of four species disjunct from the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains: Rhynchospora macrostachya, R. scirpoides, Fuirena pumila, and Eleocharis equisetoides. The populations were established at Portage Marsh when water levels dropped owing to regional climatic drying during the mid-Holocene. They persisted until the late Holocene; only R. macrostachya still occurs in the marsh. Populations of these and other Coastal Plain disjuncts probably were established in the southern Lake Michigan region following mid-Holocene drying and formation of extensive shallow wetlands by coastal processes. Seed sources for these populations may have been in the eastern Great Lakes region. We propose that development of Coastal Plain disjunctions in the central Great Lakes region consisted of a sequential series of westward range-shifts in response to climate-induced habitat changes, rather than a single late-glacial migration along a corridor of suitable habitat.
23313294|Cytological and morphological evidence indicates natural hybridization between Cirsium altissimum and C. discolor. It is postulated that the high degree of hybrid sterility is correlated with meiotic abnormalities.
23313295|The distribution of Tall Wheatgrass (Elymus elongatus subsp. ponticus) in Nova Scotia is summarized and a planted population along a roadside in Quebec is reported.
23313281|The contribution of self-pollination to overall reproduction in Isotria medeoloides was experimentally assessed. We used insect exclosures and applied three treatmentsno floral manipulation; pollinaria removal followed by hand self-pollination; and pollinaria removal followed by hand cross-pollinationand a control. Mature capsule dimensions and total seed weight were measured for each capsule. Analysis of variance revealed no significant treatment effects in mean seed weight, whereas a G-test showed that there were no differences in fruit set among treatments. Capsule length and diameter were strongly correlated with seed weight. Additionally, plant size (measured as leaf whorl diameter) was positively correlated with overall mean seed weight. We conclude that I. medeoloides is self-compatible and primarily self-pollinating. We also conclude that while reproduction is not limited by pollen availability, it may be limited by resources, assessed by overall plant size.
23313278|A highly variable, fully fertile population of Rhamnus that was first established in Ann Arbor, Michigan, circa 1952 was studied to identify the species present and determine whether some individuals were of hybrid origin. Specimens of four taxa hypothesized as being present in the populationR. cathartica, R. davurica var. davurica, R. davurica var. nipponica, and R. utiliswere used to establish reference clusters using a canonical discriminant analysis. Results of the discriminant analysis suggest that the population is a hybrid swarm and that only R. cathartica and R. utilis were involved in the formation of the hybrids at the study site. Additional analyses with the computer program HYWIN corroborated the results of the discriminant analysis, enabled circumscription of putative hybrids, and for each hybrid provided a pair of specimens in the data set that best matches the morphologies of its parents. Utilization of both discriminant and HYWIN analyses in studies of hybrid swarms appears complementary and effective.
23313280|Chromosome counts are documented and discussed for 44 Alaskan vascular plant taxa. Five of these are either first counts or new numbers for these taxa. A new combination, Cardamine microphylla subsp. blaisdellii is presented.
23313282|Because amphicarpy is strongly associated with heterogeneous habitats, it can be difficult to document and interpret infraspecific differentiation in amphicarpic species. In the woodland annual Amphicarpaea bracteata, a canonical variates analysis (CVA) of morphological data from herbarium specimens provided initial support for the recognition of two distinct varieties. Subsequently, common garden and greenhouse studies were conducted with multiple populations of these two well-marked varieties, A. bracteata var. comosa and A. bracteata var. bracteata. Because the variety comosa is restricted to sunnier habitats while the variety bracteata spans a broad range of habitats, these studies included bracteata populations from both densely shaded and sunny habitats. CVA of the greenhouse data indicated that the varieties comosa and bracteata maintained discrete differences in leaf morphology. Thus, varietal differences are, in part, genetically based rather than solely plastic responses to the local environment. Differences between shade- and sun-native bracteata populations, although relatively minor, also appeared to be, in part, genetically based. Consistent with its affinity for sunnier habitats, the variety comosa achieved superior survivorship and fecundity under high light conditions. However, fecundity was greater in shade-native than in sun-native bracteata populations. In combination with trends in leaf morphology, these results support the idea that the variety comosa is a sun-adapted ecotype, but not the concept that shade- and sun-native bracteata populations are, respectively, shade- and sun-adapted.
23313279|Branch initiation in the British Soldier Lichen (Cladonia cristatella) follows a sequence of discrete developmental stages. Branches arise from dichotomous divisions of a meristem-like apical bundle of fungal cells. Early ontogenetic phases are predictable and controlled by the activity of the fungal meristem. One source of variability in mature thalli is heterochrony; the branching process may be synchronized differently in different thalli. In some thalli the meristem may divide early in ontogeny, in which case the branches are relatively long and distinct. In other thalli the meristem enlarges but does not divide until later in ontogeny. In this case branching is delayed and the branches may be shorter and less distinct. Both patterns of timing for branch initiation produce mature thalli with a morphology that is unique to C. cristatella. The early ontogeny in C. cristatella is similar to that of taxa that are presumed to be only distantly related. This suggests that branching may be canalized in Cladonia species, and that certain branching patterns represent primitive characters in the Cladoniaceae. Morphological variability in C. cristatella, which is based partly on heterochrony, has both taxonomic and evolutionary implications.
23314744|The genus Nuphar (Nymphaeaceae) is described to include 11 species native to fresh waters of the Northern Hemisphere. This assessment utilized morphometric analyses, cladistic analyses, evaluation of randomly amplified polymorphic DNA, and seed and pollen fertility estimations. Evolutionary reconstructions position the genus at the base of the family, most closely allied to Barclaya. Comprehensive cladistic analyses of morphological and molecular data have permitted a general phylogenetic interpretation of the genus. Two major evolutionary lineages are evident and recognized taxonomically at the section level. One (sect. Nuphar) includes N. lutea, N.  spenneriana, N. japonica, and N.  saijoensis, with an ultimate branch involving N. pumila and N. microphylla. The other lineage (sect. Astylus) includes N. polysepala, N.  rubrodisca, N. variegata, N. sagittifolia, and N. advena. All studies illustrate high morphological variability and close relationships of species within each section. The biology of Nuphar is summarized and a complete taxonomic treatment is presented.
23313701|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the taxa of Cyperaceae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. Of the 367 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms) treated, 362 are mapped based primarily on specimens in major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with most data derived from the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in standard manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23313665|Quantitative data on structure and composition of all strata of vegetation were collected from 20 study sites in the Boston Mountains Subsection of the Ozark Mountains of northwestern Arkansas in June 2004. All study sites were located at upper slope or ridgetop positions and occurred at elevations > 457 m. Oaks (Quercus spp.) were dominants in the tree stratum (stems  10 cm DBH) for all 11 sites located < 549 m but in only one site > 590 m. In these higher elevation sites, various other species, including sugar maple (Acer saccharum), were relatively more important. Hickories (Carya spp.) were consistently present but usually achieved dominant or codominant status only at higher elevations. Dogwood (Cornus florida) and red maple (A. rubrum) were the two most important species represented in the small tree (stems  2.5 cm but < 10 cm DBH) stratum. The Ozark data set was compared with data obtained from a series of topographically similar study sites in the central Appalachian Mountains of eastern central West Virginia. For the tree stratum, the two regions shared 15 species in common, but these were usually quite different in importance. Oaks were relatively more important in the Ozarks but typically were underrepresented in the small tree, sapling, and seedling strata in both regions.
23313664|Chamaedorea glaucifolia, previously thought to be distributed in the Depresin Central de Chiapas and the adjacent Sierra Norte, is reported for the first time in southern Veracruz State in an evergreen tropical rain forest of the Uxpanapa region. It has also been found in the Sierra Madre del Sur, Chiapas, thus extending its range considerably. Chamaedorea tuerckheimii, previously known only from Guatemala and the Los Tuxtla region of Veracruz, was found in the northern mountain ranges of Chiapas and extending its range to a locality in the southern mountains of Tabasco bordering Chiapas. Notes on habitat and distribution are presented, as well as a "Critically Endangered" Red List Category (C1a) recommendation for C. tuerckheimii.
23313662|Resolution of the systematic relationships of the New England Boneset, Eupatorium novae-angliae, has been elusive. This rare species, known from only 15 sites in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, has been demonstrated to be male-sterile and agamospermous, and thus inferred to be polyploid, but its progenitor diploids have not been identified clearly. In a study that hinged on a combination of fieldwork and morphological study together with molecular analysis, we have demonstrated that E. novae-angliae contains ITS repeats characteristic of two sexual diploid species of the genus. One is the widespread E. perfoliatum, the second is a previously unrecognized endemic to clay-based Carolina bay and depression meadow habitats in the Carolinas, that had been included in E. leucolepis and is now recognized as a separate species, E. paludicola. The molecular data highlight the distinctiveness of E. novae-angliae and underscore the need for efforts to continue to protect it in its native habitat.
23313660|Phragmites australis subsp. australis is an invasive alien of major importance in natural habitats in many parts of North America but methods of distinguishing it from the native subsp. americanus required more research. A study of the value of basal stem internode color was conducted in eastern Ontario where the long history of collections enables characteristics of the native subspecies to be evaluated, since the invasive alien subspecies is believed to have arrived only recently. Although there is some overlap, correlation analysis indicated that basal stem internode color was highly correlated with ligule height and lower glume length, the latter characters being considered the most important for differentiation. With regard to ligule height, a measurement excluding the fringe of hair proved most valuable. Collections of native plants prior to the post-1970 spread of Phragmites along roads have reddish-purple lower stem internodes, whereas many collected after 1970 have yellow-brown lower stem internodes. Plants from interior wetlands, presumed to be native, also have reddish-purple lower stem internodes, while those from roadsides are either yellow-brown or reddish-purple. The plants with reddish-purple lower stem internodes have longer lower glumes and longer ligules on middle leaves than the plants with yellow-brown lower stem internodes. They are thus referable to the native subsp. americanus based on morphological as well as circumstantial evidence. Lower glume length and ligule height are confirmed as valuable characters for separating subsp. australis and subsp. americanus. Basal stem internode color is a valuable character, particularly for field identification and especially when combined with morphological measurements. Basal stem internode color was also indicated to be useful for studying the history of invasion of subsp. australis in eastern Ontario, and may prove similarly useful in other parts of northeastern North America, as well.
23313663|In 1853, John L. Riddell, then a leading multidisciplinary scientist in Louisiana, validly published 34 binomials and trinomials of vascular plants from Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. Most of these names were first published in 1852 in a checklist of Louisiana plants, but lacked descriptions and hence were not then validly published. This paper has been previously noted by several biologists. The following year, Riddell published a paper in the same journal providing brief descriptions of all of these supposedly undescribed plants. Unfortunately, this paper with the valid publication of these names has rarely been noted, as the journal is not widely available in botanical libraries. The few names so noted are often attributed to the supposed publishing author rather than to Riddell, who alone should be credited as the author for the new taxa. The genera of flowering plants in which new species or varieties are described are listed alphabetically as follows: Acalypha, Campanula, Cucumis, Dicliptera, Eriogonum, Lysimachia, Melothria, Physalis, Plantago, Polygonum, Potamogeton, Quercus, Sagittaria, and Urtica. The protologue of each of the published names is included and, for those that we could identify, synonymy is listed. For those species which we were unable to identify, we have included the protologues as a convenience to those not having access to the 1853 publication. We hope others may have the floristic or monographic knowledge to identify those names we have been unable to.
23313661|Eupatorium paludicola (Asteraceae) is a new species from the Atlantic Coastal Plain of North and South Carolina. It resembles E. leucolepis (DC.) Torr. & A. Gray, from which it is most readily distinguished by very narrow (24.5 mm wide) ascending-recurved to erect-incurved leaves, and by shorter involucres, pappi, and cypselae. It inhabits isolated, herb-dominated wet depressions with variable hydrology such as clay-based Carolina bays.
23313692|Two new species of Wikstroemia from Sichuan, China, are described and illustrated. Wikstroemia guanxianensis from Dujiangyan Xian is similar to W. dolichantha in the one-sided development of the disc and in the elongate inflorescence. It differs from W. dolichantha in the oval, wider leaves (to 3.5 cm wide) rounded at the base, longer pedicel (1.5 mm), and disc quadrate, apex truncate, undulate. Wikstroemia jiulongensis is similar to W. fargesii, but differs from it in young branches with scattered pubescence, the peduncles absent or very short, and a quadrate disc with undulate apex. A key to similar species of Wikstroemia in Sichuan is provided.
23313690|Variation in ploidy levels in Phragmites australis is a well-documented phenomenon although North American populations are less studied than European ones. It has been suggested, based on morphological measurements, that native and introduced P. australis subspecies in North America represent different ploidy levels. The objectives of this study were to assess whether guard cell size and stomatal density, morphological differences indicative of variation in ploidy level between native and introduced P. australis, are truly associated with different ploidy levels as measured by flow cytometry. Significant differences in guard cell size and stomatal densities were found between subspecies, with native plants having larger guard cells and lower stomatal density. However, no differences in 2C DNA content were found. Although these morphological measurements are significantly correlated with subspecies and can be added to the list of useful morphological characters distinguishing the two subspecies, it does not appear that they are accurate indicators of ploidy levels. Potential implications of these differences on the invasion biology of introduced P. australis are discussed.
23313688|The pine barrens in the fall-line sandhills of western Georgia can be accepted as the type locality for Ceranthera linearifolia as described by Stephen Elliott in his Sketch. This remote area between the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers became accessible in the early 1800s with the building of the Federal Road from Washington, D.C. through Georgia to Mobile, Alabama. Subsequently renamed Dicerandra linearifolia by George Bentham, this new mint genus was among several plants found and described by Elliott along the Federal Road. To establish the type locality, new field collections from the Georgia pine barrens were compared with Elliott's collections sent to Hooker and Schweinitz. A specimen at Kew (K) is designated as the lectotype for C. linearifolia and a new isolectotype is found at Geneva (G). A suite of characters, including strikingly linear leaves with strongly revolute margins, two-flowered cymes and generally unbranched stems, was common to both the types and the new collections from the Georgia pine barrens.
23313689|Three new taxa are described from the Arizona Strip in northwestern Arizona: Camissonia dominguez-escalantorum N.D. Atwood, L.C. Higgins & S.L. Welsh, sp. nov.; Physaria arizonica (S. Watson) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz var. andrusensis N.D. Atwood, S.L. Welsh & L.C. Higgins, var. nov.; and Tetradymia canescens DC. var. thorneae N.D. Atwood, S.L. Welsh & L.C. Higgins, var. nov. Two new taxa are described from New Mexico: Lepidium montanum Nutt. ex Torr. & A. Gray var. todiltoensis N.D. Atwood & S.L. Welsh, var. nov. and Hymenoxys argentea (A. Gray) K.F. Parker var. thoreauensis N.D. Atwood, S.L. Welsh & A. Clifford, var. nov. Two new species are described from Utah: Camissonia bolanderi N.D. Atwood & S.L. Welsh, sp. nov. and Erigeron katiae S.L. Welsh and N.D. Atwood, sp. nov. Each is compared to related species based on differences in morphology.
23313691|Despite a large body of work on the serpentine-substrate effect on vascular plants, little work has been undertaken to describe lichen communities growing on serpentine soils derived from peridotite and other ultramafic rocks. Most such work has been conducted in Europe and western North America. Only one study to date has examined the lichen flora of an ultramafic outcrop in eastern North America. The current paper examines the lichen flora of a peridotite outcrop from Deer Isle, Hancock County, Maine, U.S.A. The lichen flora is presented along with relevant ecological and geochemical data. Sixty-three species were found, comprising 35 genera. Two species, Buellia ocellata and Cladonia symphycarpia, are new reports for New England. Fuscopannaria praetermissa, Psorula rufonigra, and Spilonema revertens are new reports for Maine. Twenty species including one genus, Lobaria, are new reports for ultramafic soils worldwide. Buellia ocellata, P. rufonigra, and S. revertens are reported from several localities on the outcrop. Soil analyses were conducted for pH, electrical conductivity, cation exchange capacity, heavy metals, and cations. Soil pH and cation and heavy metal concentrations are similar to those reported from west coast ultramafic soils suggesting that a similarly strong substrate effect may exist for species present on ultramafic soils in eastern North America.
23313687|New data sets and analytic techniques provide the tools to build a new perception of changes in the New England flora following the retreat of the last Pleistocene continental glacier. We consider a set of 13 species for which genetic data are available in the context of 1) the fossil record when available, and 2) the evidence of the distribution of appropriate habitat in the late Pleistocene and Holocene. The current New England flora is derived from a diverse set of refugia including the High Arctic, the serpentines of the American West, and the unglaciated and now submerged North Atlantic coastal plain as well as the traditional refugia to the south, both along the coastal plain and to the west in the lower Mississippi valley. This analysis demonstrates that present-day communities are in fact transient, constantly changing assemblages of species.
23313002|A small population of the orchid Triphora trianthophora in western Massachusetts was investigated over a six-year period (1988 through 1993). Observations on the flowering habits and seed capsule production are described, as well as vegetative reproduction by means of tuberoids. Triphora produces an abundance of short-lived flowers yet very few capsules are initiated. The majority of Triphora's existence is spent underground reproducing asexually by means of new tuberoids.
23313005|The chromosome numbers of Alnus acuminata H.B.K. ssp. acuminata, A. acuminata ssp. arguta (Schlechtendal) Furlow and A. jorullensis H.B.K. ssp. jorullensis were determined on material from 10 different localities of 4 Latin American countries: Columbia (6 stations), Venezuela (1), Costa Rica (2) and Guatemala (1). All the species were tetraploid (2n = 28), A. acuminata ssp. arguta and A. jorullensis ssp. jorullensis being cytologically studied for the first time.
23313007|The first known botanical studies of the Connecticut Valley in western Massachusetts were initiated during the decade 181019. Four area physicians, David Hunt of Northampton (17731837), Jacob Porter of Plainfield (17831846), Dennis Cooley of Deerfield (17891860), and Stephen West Williams of Deerfield (17901855), kept extensive personal herbaria and corresponded with Amos Eaton at Williams College and Benjamin Silliman at Yale. Porter, Cooley, and Williams published phenological accounts of local vegetation and other scientific observations. Beginning around 1816, Edward Hitchcock (17931864) commenced botanical studies at Deerfield that culminated in the first flora of the region, published at Amherst in 1829. Hitchcock acknowledged Cooley and Williams as "early coadjutors in this work," which served as a basis for Hitchcock's 1833 compilation of the Massachusetts flora.
23313003|This study presents a community characterization of calcareous fens of western New England and adjacent New York State. Based on analyses of data from 24 sites, seven vegetation types are defined: Carex lasiocarpa-Cladium mariscoides Type, Carex aquatilis Type, Betula pumila Type, Carex lacustris Type, Carex stricta Type, Typha angustifolia-Carex lasiocarpa Type, and Carex interior-Carex leptalea-Carex flava Type. The distribution of these vegetation associations is related to hydrologic and ionic gradients. Calcareous fens of the region are similar to minerotrophically rich fens elsewhere in North America with respect to vegetation and environmental characteristics.
23313000|The artificial creation of wetlands has become a common means to mitigate the effects of wetland alteration due to development. The establishment of diverse, functional plant communities is a crucial and challenging part of a wetland creation project. This study analyzes plant community structure of a seven year old, artificially created wetland. One hundred and four vascular plant species are documented from the study site including two species listed as rare for New Hampshire and the first state record for an introduced weedy species. The computer program TWINSPAN used species abundance data to classify the vegetation into seven cover types. The three plant associations of the open water habitat were: Chara cover type, Potamogeton pusillus cover type, and the Potamogeton natans cover type. The four plant associations of the emergent habitat were: Eleocharis smallii cover type, Typha latifolia cover type, Juncus effusus-Phalaris arundinacea cover type, and a Carex stricta cover type. Each cover type and associated habitat was described and delineated.
23313085|Carex comosa shoots have a life history which varies depending on their time of emergence. Shoots that emerge in spring, summer or early autumn develop flower initials before winter, flower the following year, then die in August, having lived 240420 days. Shoots that emerge in late autumn do not develop flower initials, remain vegetative the next summer, then develop flower initials in the second autumn. These shoots flower and die the following summer, having lived for up to 700 days. Few shoots live their maximum time and mortality is 90% in some cohorts. Mortality patterns indicate that shoots die at a constant rate throughout the year.
23313087|Five significant additions of arctic and subarctic species have been made to the native vascular flora of the island of Newfoundland as a result of botanical explorations on the Great Northern Peninsula: Minuartia biflora (Wats.) Schinzl. & Thell., Primula stricta Hornem., Sagina caespitosa (J. Vahl) Lange, Sagina saginoides (L.) Karst. and Salix argyrocarpa Anderss. Important range extensions on the island are also reported for Cerastium terrae-novae Fern. & Wieg., Danthonia intermedia Vasey and Salix arctica Pallas.
23313083|While fen communities have been long known from northwestern Iowa, only recently have they been found to occur in northeastern Iowa, south of the limit of Wisconsinan glaciation. Since 1984, over 2333 potential fen sites were surveyed in this region, and 160 were found extant. Extant fen sites can be divided into one of five classes dependent upon surficial geology: pre-Illinoian till, bedrock, eolian sand, fluvial sand, and oxbows. Five of eight soil chemistry variables differed significantly across these geologic classes, including organic matter, pH, available phosphorus, calcium, and magnesium. Soil pH, organic matter, and available magnesium were found to have fairly well-defined spatial gradients across northeastern Iowa fen sites. Four principal axes of climatic variation were also described from northeastern Iowa, and include temperature, precipitation, growing season, and summer precipitation. A total of 320 vascular plant taxa were located or have been reported from this community, with seven being only known from historical records. Fully 44% of the flora are considered rare in the region or state. Of these, 30% are rare in northeastern Iowa, 20% are rare in the state, 12% are listed for state legal protection, 11% are newly known from the northeastern Iowa flora, and 4% are newly known from the Iowa flora. Even though northeastern Iowa fens currently cover only .01% of the northeastern Iowa land surface, they contribute significantly to state and regional biodiversity by harboring approximately 28% of the regional and 18% of the total state flora.
23313086|A method of producing dot distribution maps automatically from a database file using widely available computer software and public domain mapping software is described. Two sample maps are provided.
23313084|In conjunction with a study of the Nymphaeaceae in North America, the taxonomy and nomenclature of three taxa is reviewed. Two new combinations are provided at subspecific rank for two taxa sometimes treated as species, one for Nymphaea tuberosa Paine and one for Nuphar rubrodisca Morong, and both are lectotypified. A neotype is selected for Nymphaea advena Aiton which serves to maintain usage of Aiton's epithet for a widespread taxon of Nuphar.
23313139|During the 19901992 growing seasons vegetation was surveyed in a Logan County, Ohio fen. This 23 ha site was subjected to intense substrate disturbance resulting from peat mining activities which took place from 1980 to 1985. Thousands of cubic meters of peat and marl were removed from the fen and virtually the entire surface area was affected by dredging activities. Surveys of the fen prior to mining indicate that the site was occupied mostly by shrub communities dominated by Cornus spp., Rosa palustris, and other woody species. However, shrubs are infrequent at the present time. Post-disturbance surveys documented a total of 208 vascular plant taxa, including 22 species listed as rare in Ohio. Several species are present which are disjunct from areas in the state where they normally occur, or are not known elsewhere in western Ohio.
23313138|Pubescence in Oxalis grandis Small was analyzed as a constellation of characters describing the numbers, types, orientations, and lengths of hairs on different regions of the plants. Pubescence is a complex character whose components vary independently with no obvious geographical or ecological correlates. Hirsute plants occur sporadically throughout the range of the species, but extreme expression of the entire suite of pubescence characters is restricted to one population. A correlation analysis indicates that pubescence in Oxalis grandis is most likely under complex genetic control and is therefore valuable as a taxonomic character. An analysis of pollen size utilizing plants from two populations representing extremes in pubescence shows significant differences between flower morphs. For corresponding morphs, pollen from the population with pubescent plants is larger. These studies have demonstrated high levels of intraspecific polymorphism within Oxalis grandis.
23313142|Somatic chromosome numbers are reported for nine species and one variety of Callitriche (Callitrichaceae). The following new reports are included: 2n = 20 (C. nuttallii, C. marginata), 2n = 40 for one of four populations of C. heterophylla var. heterophylla, 2n = 40 (C. trochlearis), 2n = 10 (C. peploides, C. terrestris).
23313141|Both aerial and underwater pollination systems (hypohydrophily) occur in Callitriche (Callitrichaceae), and as such the genus can serve as a model system in which to probe questions concerning the evolution of hypohydrophily from aerial pollination systems. Evidence from scanning and transmission electron microscopy reveals strikingly different exine thickness in the pollen of four aerially flowering species (C. heterophylla var. bolanderi, C. marginata, C. peploides, and C. stagnalis), which have a distinct sexine layer (0.551.1 m thick), in comparison with that of the hypohydrophilous C. hermaphroditica. The exine of the latter species is rudimentary (<0.1 m thick) in pollen of the annual form of the species, and virtually absent in the perennial form. The degree of exine reduction in pollen of C. hermaphroditica relative to that of the aerially flowering species contrasts with the otherwise general morphological similarity observed among the flowers of the respective species.
23313137|In North America the Carex petricosa group has generally been considered to consist of three species, C. petricosa and C. franklinii in western Canada and Alaska, and C. misandroides in eastern Canada. In addition a number of other species and varieties have been described in the past fifty years, but these have generally not been given formal recognition by subsequent authors. A morphological study of herbarium specimens of this group led to the conclusion that all of these taxa should be treated as a single species. The western and eastern populations differed in the proportion of flowers that were distigmatic. Western plants were mostly tristigmatic or had not more than 50% distigmatic flowers. Eastern plants were mostly distigmatic or had more than 50% distigmatic flowers. Consequently two varieties were recognised in C. petricosa, var. petricosa from the west, and var. misandroides (Fernald) Boivin from the east.
23313140|Horizontal starch gel electrophoresis of isozymes was conducted on samples from the single currently known Massachusetts population of Cypripedium arietinum (ram's head lady's slipper) and two populations of C. acaule (pink lady's slipper). No genetic variation was detected at 27 presumptive loci in the C. arietinum population and only slight variation among 26 and 19 presumptive loci, respectively, in the C. acaule populations. Levels of polymorphism and heterozygosity in all populations were exceedingly low for animal pollinated obligate outcrossers. Genetic distance between the C. acaule populations was also low. Yearly and possibly overall effective population sizes in C. acaule and C. arietinum may be low due to low flower production and/or fruiting rate. Low levels of intrapopulation variation may thus result from genetic drift and founder effect, as proposed for C. acaule by Gill (1989). Low variation between C. acaule populations, though, indicates that genetic bottlenecks in ancestral populations may also have contributed to low species-level variation, as proposed by Case (1994) for Michigan populations of C. acaule, C. arietinum, C. candidum, and C. reginae. These results suggest that low genetic variation in declining Cypripedium populations may not be anthropogenic. These populations may have been genetically depauperate throughout much of their existence prior to human disturbance. Habitat loss, plant collecting and demographic stochasticities are, at least in the short term, more significant threats to Cypripedium populations than is a relative lack of genetic variation.
23313100|The seaweed floras from the Goleta Slough and adjacent coastal sites near Santa Barbara, California are compared with several coastal and estuarine habitats within the southern Gulf of Maine. One hundred fifty-two taxa are described from the Goleta-Santa Barbara area, consisting of 104 Rhodophyta, 22 Phaeophyta and 26 Chlorophyta. Four of these taxa represent modest range extensions within the state (i.e., Farlowia conferta, Giffordia hincksiae var. californica, Lomentaria caseae and Prionitis australis, while two others found within the Slough (Capsosiphon fulvescens and Microspora pachyderma) are significant additions to the marine flora of the Pacific Coast. The patterns of species richness and composition at four contiguous southern California sites showed strong contrasts due to local environmental variability, with the highest numbers of taxa (117 taxa or 77%) occurring at the sand-abraded nearshore Goleta Point site and the lowest within the shallow Slough (26 taxa or 17%). The depauperate flora of this small arid salt marsh habitat is dominated by ephemeral green algae (16 species) and Salicornia virginica, with ten other seaweeds (i.e., 7 reds and 3 browns) only occurring just upstream from its mouth. By contrast, estuarine seaweed floras within New England usually have much higher numbers of red algal taxa, their "open coastal" floras often extend much farther inland (2.08.5 miles) and seaweed standing stocks are usually dominated by fucoid brown algae. The similarity of the Slough's green algal flora to New England's estuarine vegetation is striking, with most of the latter sites exhibiting floristic affinities of 50% or more. The analogous distributional and abundance patterns of ephemeral green algae (Cladophora sericea and Enteromorpha compressa) and the California horn snail (Cerithidea californica) suggest several important interactions between seaweeds and snails, plus several other invertebrates and birds.
23313101|The northern adder's-tongue fern, Ophioglossum vulgatum var. pseudopodum (Blake) Farw. (Ophioglossaceae), occurs in five known populations in Massachusetts and has been designated as threatened by the Massachusetts Natural Heritage Program. The autecology, population biology and population genetics of O. vulgatum var. pseudopodum were analyzed during the summer of 1992. The distribution of each population was mapped, associated vegetation sampled, and permanent plots established for long-term study. Isozyme electrophoresis was employed to assess variability within and between populations. The historical distribution of the species in Massachusetts was examined based upon herbarium specimens. Each of the known Massachusetts populations is in an early successional site with a unique history of disturbance; sites include pasture, a power line right-of-way, and abandoned beaver meadows. Four of the five populations are small, ranging from 1 to 109 sporophytes. All specimens subjected to isozyme analysis were monomorphic for all loci examined. The implications of the spatial and temporal distribution, population size, and low genetic variability of Ophioglossum vulgatum var. pseudopodum are discussed. Management considerations for the preservation of this and other early successional species are suggested.
23313102|A putative tri-specific hybrid Diphasiastrum (Lycopodiaceae) is described from a collection in northern Vermont and is figured in a line drawing. The hybrid is morphologically intermediate between its probable parents, D. digitatum and D.  sabinifolium. This is the first flat-branched hybrid lycopod believed to involve three parental genomes. In light of its limited occurrence (a single clone), it is not given an epithet.
23313417|Carex oronensis, Orono sedge, is Maine's only known endemic plant species. From 1916 through 1986 only one individual was collected. From 19861998, we and others found 58 populations and approximately 2862 reproductive individuals in early successional habitats, almost exclusively in the Penobscot River drainage. Of extant populations, 80% have < 20 plants, and 22% have only 12. In a Principal Coordinates Analysis with 22 morphological variables and 95 individuals, C. oronensis separated completely from C. bebbii, C. ovalis, C. scoparia var. tessellata, and C. tincta. Canonical Discriminant Analysis resulted in 100% classification for 19 individuals of C. oronensis. Carex oronensis differs from the four other taxa especially in perigynium features: narrow wings, lack of abaxial nerves, glossy texture, rust-colored blotch (68% of sample), and lack of basal sponginess about the achene. Species status is appropriate for C. oronensis because it is fertile, its offspring are identical to the parent, and it is morphologically distinct. Because its distribution is wholly north of the Wisconsin glacial boundary and it is not clearly adapted for long-distance dispersal, the species appears to have arisen in Maine. Hay transport by the lumber industry could account for the spread of C. oronensis within the Penobscot River drainage and its confinement there. Mowing after seed dispersal in mid-July appears to benefit populations.
23313420|The unusual gross morphology of Cladonia leporina provided the basis for early lichenologists to classify it separately from other species with red apothecia. Their hesitation to include C. leporina with other red-fruited species was based on its ascyphose, abundantly branched thallus, which did not match the characteristic cup-shaped morphology of species that were known in the early nineteenth century. Cladonia leporina was compared by its author with C. rangiferina, which was later recognized within the genus Cladina. The concept of a group to accommodate all of the red-fruited taxa in Cladonia arose during the nineteenth century. Its morphological parameters were subsequently broadened to include both branched and unbranched species. Contemporary lichenologists have classified C. leporina within section Cocciferae, in which all of the Cladonia species with red apothecia are recognized regardless of morphology. Similar to other branched species with red apothecia, the morphology and morphogenesis of C. leporina suggest that this species is allied with taxa outside of section Cocciferae.
23313418|The North American Platanthera aquilonis Sheviak has long been known to autopollinate. Pollinia rotate forward and downward out of the anther sacs and contact the stigma. Previous experimental evidence has indicated that this movement is effected by gravity. In addition to the movement of whole pollinia, flowers are often found in which continuous streams of pollen massulae emanate from anther sacs and seemingly pour down onto the stigma. Experiments with cultivated plants have shown that water droplets can collect in the centers of flowers of this species. These sometimes draw a sheet of massulae out of an anther sac either onto the surface of the droplet or into its interior. As the droplet evaporates, the massulae are deposited as a continuous layer from the anther sac onto the stigma. It is suggested that in nature dew may function to produce the observed pollen streams.
23313421|Species of the algal genus Vaucheria routinely leave "seed banks" of propagules in riparian sediments for regrowth during optimal conditions in the habitat. Muds containing propagules were collected at different times of the year from four freshwater riparian habitats in central and eastern Connecticut, sites previously known to have as many as six Vaucheria species living sympatrically in the space of just 36 cm2 of floodplain sediment or stream bank. Muds from each site were allowed to thoroughly desiccate in the laboratory. Desiccated mud samples were rehydrated after prescribed periods of time, and then cultured under optimal conditions in an incubator. Eight freshwater species appeared variously in the cultures demonstrating a tolerance to desiccation of 63383 days with V. undulata, V. prona, and V. frigida surviving the greatest periods of treatment.
23313419|Females in dioecious species are generally expected to have higher rates of photosynthesis than are males of the same species. This sexual dimorphism is believed to evolve to compensate for higher costs of reproduction in females relative to males. However, some studies have shown that males in dioecious species have higher rates of carbon assimilation than females. The current study measures photosynthetic rates in males and females of the same genotype in the gender-switching species, Arisaema triphyllum. Males were found to have higher photosynthetic rates on a per unit area basis. However, females had greater overall carbon assimilation rates because of their significantly greater leaf area. Photosynthesis in the current study was measured at flowering; presumably developing embryos were not acting as carbon sinks at this time. Arisaema triphyllum has a corm (an underground storage organ) that may be the primary sink for carbon. A regression including only females reveals a significant inverse relationship between pseudostem diameter (a proxy for corm size) and photosynthetic rate; as corm size increased, the photosynthetic rate decreased. This suggests that in very large females having greater stored resources, the corm is not as strong a sink as it is for smaller females, at least during the flowering phase of the growing season. For smaller females however, photosynthetic rates do appear to be sink-limited. There was no relationship between corm size and photosynthetic rates among males. Overall, males and females appear to have different patterns of assimilation, at least early in the growing season.
23313469|Short's goldenrod, Solidago shortii (Asteraceae), is extant from a single locality in Blue Licks, Kentucky. Field studies demonstrated that this endemic is a morphologically variable taxon, inspiring two questions. First, is the taxon known as S. shortii from Blue Licks the same species as originally described by Torrey and Gray from an extirpated population at the Falls of the Ohio River, Kentucky? Second, what is the extent of the morphological variation within and among populations of Short's goldenrod at Blue Licks? These questions were addressed through Principal Components Analysis (PCA), Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA), and standard whole-plant herbarium specimen comparisons. Whole-plant comparisons with other members of Solidago subsection Triplinervae revealed diagnostic characters suitable for the delineation of S. shortii. All specimens of S. shortii from both the Blue Licks and Falls of the Ohio localities shared diagnostic character states. For morphometric purposes, specimens representing two sympatric goldenrod species (S. ulmifolia and S. nemoralis) and one close phylogenetic relative (S. canadensis var. scabra) were sampled from the same locality as S. shortii. Vegetative and floral characters were analyzed for all four taxa. Specimens of S. shortii from the Blue Licks vicinity formed a continuous cluster in PCA with specimens from the Falls of the Ohio, a cluster which was distinct from those formed by the other three species. In DFA, the Falls of the Ohio specimens were imbedded in the cluster formed by the Blue Licks specimens. Thus, the taxon at Blue Licks is indeed S. shortii, as established by morphometric analysis and whole-plant comparisons. In terms of interspecific variation, S. shortii at Blue Licks exhibited a similar or greater range of variation than either of the two more common Solidago taxa found at Blue Licks, S. canadensis var. scabra and S. nemoralis. The range of morphological variation exhibited by S. ulmifolia was slightly greater than that of S. shortii. These data also indicate a greater variability within and among Blue Licks populations of S. shortii than otherwise might be expected for a species of highly restricted distribution, and have major implications regarding management policies.
23313470|The morphology and habitat of a dwarf moss-like or muscoides-like fucoid brown alga were studied in the Brave Boat Harbor salt marsh of York-Kittery, Maine, U.S.A. using transect studies and transplant experiments. The plant, which lacks a holdfast, forms a dense embedded turf amongst sparse Spartina patens populations in the high marsh, particularly on well-drained sandy sediments near the Harbor's mouth. The plant's dichotomously branched fronds were smaller than those previously reported for muscoides-like populations from Europe (mean = 13.2 mm long, 1.1 mm wide, and 0.1 g damp-dried weight), while they had a similar dominance of marginal hair pits or cryptostomata. Transplantation of in situ Fucus spiralis from the lower to the upper marsh resulted in enhanced fragmentation, stunting, proliferation, and reduced reproduction. Reciprocal transplantation of the muscoides-like Fucus from upper to lower elevations caused enhanced frond length and proliferation. Based upon detailed transplant and morphological studies, we conclude that the muscoides-like Fucus plants from Brave Boat Harbor represent a phenotypic variant of F. spiralis, caused by detachment, extensive proliferation, and subsequent degeneration of detached fragments. The plant's dwarf morphology is primarily linked to a series of unique environmental conditions (desiccation and low nutrients), plus the type of attached parental material available. Thus, the dwarf muscoides-like Fucus in Europe and some Northwest Atlantic sites may be derived from F. vesiculosus, while in Brave Boat Harbor the parental material is F. spiralis. An analogous pattern is also evident between Ascophyllum nodosum and its detached ecad scorpioides, with the presence of dwarf specimens and the occurrence of a conspicuous morphological continuum between the two plants.
23313471|Chromosome numbers are reported for 238 individuals of 79 taxa and one hybrid from 19 genera from western Canada and the western United States. The majority of the reports are for asters (109) reported in this paper under the generic names Canadanthus, Eucephalus, Eurybia, Oreostemma, Sericocarpus, and Symphyotrichum (including Virgulus) and goldenrods (97) under Solidago and Euthamia. Nearly all counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; some reports are first counts for one or more of the four Canadian provinces and territories and thirteen western states of the United States sampled. The following first reports are included: Eurybia conspicua (Aster conspicuus), 2n = 126; Solidago simplex var. nana, 2n = 18; Symphyotrichum falcatum var. falcatum, 2n = 30; and S. yukonense, 2n = 10. The following new combinations are proposed: Heterotheca sessiliflora var. echioides, H. sessiliflora var. fastigiata, and Oreostemma alpigenum subsp. haydenii.
23313468|Buckleya (Santalaceae) is a hemi-parasitic, shrubby genus with two species in China, one in Japan, and one in the southeastern United States. Phylogenetic relationships among these species are controversial and have not been tested using molecular data. In this study we used sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA to test previous phylogenetic hypotheses. Two sister species pairs are well supported: B. distichophylla plus B. graebneriana, and B. lanceolata plus B. henryi. Sequence differences and morphological characters support the recognition of B. lanceolata and B. henryi. Sequence divergence between B. distichophylla and B. graebneriana is twice as high as that between B. lanceolata and B. henryi. These results are most consistent with the treatment proposed by Carvell and Eshbaugh. Biogeographically, one of the Chinese species (B. graebneriana) is most closely related to the eastern North American species (B. distichophylla), while the other Chinese species (B. henryi) is allied with the Japanese species (B. lanceolata). Maximum likelihood analyses do not reject clock-like evolution of nrDNA ITS spacers in Buckleya, and divergence times may date to the Late Miocene and Pliocene.
23313432|Saint John River Valley Hardwood Forest (SJRHF) is a regionally threatened northern disjunct plant assemblage of the central St. John River Valley and associated tributaries of southwestern New Brunswick and northeastern Maine. Two centuries of land clearance have reduced this assemblage to less than 1% of its original extent. Remaining stands, especially of more mature trees, support 31 regionally rare vascular plant taxa and are at risk due to increased cutting. Assessment of the effect of recent disturbance on SJRHF has been hampered by limited distributional information; past surveys were wide-ranging but nonsystematic. This study describes results of a systematic habitat-based survey for SJRHF remnants across 2000 km2 of western New Brunswick. One hundred and twenty one stands were assessed for the presence of rare vascular plant taxa and disturbance. Fifty-four previously unknown stations with one or more rare SJRHF taxa were identified. Two new taxa were discovered for the province and one provincially extirpated taxon was re-located. One hundred and fifteen of 121 stands showed evidence of tree harvest. Within the last two decades, 46% of the surveyed sites had been fully or partially clearcut or converted to potato fields. Ongoing stand loss suggests that conservation measures are required to maintain remnant assemblages. In situations where reserve formation is not possible, occurrence of SJRHF herbs, including rare taxa, in previously select-cut stands indicates that modified low-intensity harvest strategies may not be incompatible with their persistence.
23313433|Six new taxa from Utah and one from northern Arizona are described and one new nomenclatural proposal is presented, as follows: Erigeron huberi S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; Salvia columbariae var. argillacea S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; Astragalus lentiginosus Douglas ex Hook. var. trumbullensis S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, var. nov.; Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Rydb. var. fumariensis S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, var. nov.; Oenothera murdockii S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; Aquilegia desolaticola S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.; A. fosteri (S. L. Welsh) S. L. Welsh, comb. nov.; A. loriae S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood, sp. nov.
23313434|For nine years I studied the life cycle, demography, and reproductive biology of a woodland herb, Geranium robertianum, in central Massachusetts. These plants are facultative biennials that typically flower in the year after germination. Of 408 seeds experimentally sown in natural habitat, 26% gave rise to seedlings within six years. Of 1352 marked, naturally occurring seedlings, 53% survived to the end of their first growing season, 13% of plants alive at the end of their first growing season survived to year two, and 54% of these flowered. Plants germinating in early spring were more likely to survive to the end of year one and to flower than those germinating later in the year. Low summer rainfall appeared to reduce summer survival and low winter temperatures combined with little snow cover seemed to reduce winter survival. Floral structure and development, pollen-ovule ratios, and pollinator activity all suggest that plants of this species are highly self-pollinated. Herb Robert is one of only a few biennials that occupy undisturbed forest habitat.
23313431|A comparison of species richness at 51 coastal and estuarine sites in southern Maine is given, encompassing the area from Cape Neddick, York, to Fort Foster, Kittery, and including the Brave Boat Harbor salt marsh (York/Kittery). A total of 148 taxa was recorded, which is relatively high compared to other coastal or estuarine areas in northern New England. Seaweed populations exhibited three major distributional patterns: coastal (41%), coastal-estuarine (51%), and estuarine (8%). Perennial species dominated open coastal and outer estuarine locations, while annuals were most conspicuous at inner estuarine sites. Twenty-nine taxa were restricted to a single site (2% occurrence), whereas 19 were found at 2136 sites (4171% occurrence). Diversity in Brave Boat Harbor's main tidal channel was relatively high (83 species), presumably because of coastal and estuarine influences, diversity of habitats, and limited anthropogenic impacts. Six new or uncommon seaweeds were recorded from Brave Boat Harbor, including the invasive green alga Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides, the green algal epiphyte Urospora curvata, the tubular opportunistic brown alga Melanosiphon intestinalis, the entangled or partially embedded ecads Fucus vesiculosus ecad volubilis and F. spiralis ecad lutarius, and a dwarf embedded moss or "muscoides-like" Fucus. The prolific growth of psammophytic populations of F. spiralis on sandy bluffs at Brave Boat Harbor is also unique, as it typically grows on hard substrata within contiguous muddy estuaries. It was most abundant in the outer third of the Harbor, along with its detached ecad lutarius. Ascophyllum nodosum ecad scorpioides and F. vesiculosus ecad volubilis grew commonly as detached or buried populations in the interior parts of the Harbor, while the "muscoides-like" Fucus was found on outer high sandy marsh surfaces.
23313443|Complete abundance-annotated botanical inventories of managed and unmanaged forested areas provide critical baseline data for the long term monitoring of floristic diversity. Such data are essential in identifying species at risk of local or regional extirpation, in tracking rates of exotic invasion, and in the evaluation of species diversity effects arising from natural and anthropogenic disturbance. The reaction of forest herbaceous species to disturbance, and their subsequent recovery rates, have been little studied to date. This study documents the complete floras of seven experimental watersheds of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, compares their relative floristic characters, and provides baseline data for long term diversity monitoring at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest. The two watersheds having undergone experimental clearcuts in the recent past were found to differ significantly in elements of the herbaceous understory. These differences were not reflected in tree data and suggest that forest management policies based on tree recovery times may underestimate true floristic recovery periods, and threaten diversity over the long term.
23313442|Forty-three species and two subspecies of Sphagnum are reported for New Hampshire, including fifteen species and one subspecies documented from herbarium records and recent collections. Diversity at county and biophysical subsection (ecoregion) levels is presented and areas that remain undercollected in the state are highlighted. New Hampshire has a great diversity of Sphagnum species, reflecting the diversity of climatic, geologic, and environmental characteristics of the state. Several species with restricted distributions are discussed, and habitats critical to these species are described for future conservation efforts.
23313444|Quantitative investigations of vegetational composition and structure in 15 beaver-impacted wetlands in Franklin and Hampshire Counties, Massachusetts, were conducted between 1980 and 1995. Four wetland types were identified based on species composition. Five distinctive physiographic zones, each with a characteristic assemblage of plant species, and three successional pathways were observed in the study sites. While soil moisture is clearly a strong influence on plant community structure and composition in beaver-impacted wetlands, hydrological dynamics including frequency, duration, and extent of flooding appear more influential than depth to water table.
23313455|Jaltomata hunzikeri, a rare shrub of the coast of the department of Lima, Peru, is described and shown in a photograph. Hebecladus sinuosus, transferred as J. sinuosa, is a shrub that is widely distributed in the Andes. Saracha lobata and S. sordideviolacea are placed in synonymy with J. dentata.
23313457|This article includes a report of nomenclatural novelties in the genus Atriplex, which were determined as appropriate following preparation of a summary revision of the genus for the Flora of North America Project. Subgeneric novelties include: Atriplex subgen. Obione, stat. nov. and Atriplex subgen. Pterochiton, stat. nov. Sectional or subsectional taxa are: Atriplex subgen. Obione sect. Pleianthae, sect. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Graciliflorae, stat. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Saccariae, stat. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Argenteae, stat. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Truncatae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Wolfianae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Pusillae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Arenariae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Leucophyllae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Obione subsect. Californicae, comb. nov.; Atriplex sect. Phyllostegiae, comb. nov.; and Atriplex sect. Covilleiae, sect. nov. New varietal combinations are: Atriplex gmelinii var. alaskensis, comb. nov.; A. glabriuscula var. acadiensis, comb. nov.; A. glabriuscula var. franktonii, comb. nov.; A. saccaria var. cornuta, comb. nov.; A. saccaria var. asterocarpa, comb. nov.; A. argentea var. longitrichoma, comb. nov.; A. argentea var. rydbergii, comb. nov.; A. powellii var. minuticarpa, comb. nov.; A. wolfii var. tenuissima, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. minuscula, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. depressa, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. subtilis, comb. nov.; A. parishii var. persistens, comb. nov.; A. cordulata var. erecticaulis, comb. nov.; and A. coronata var. vallicola, comb. nov.
23313458|A classification and key to Asian, Australian, and Pacific Oleandra is presented to complement studies of Pichi-Sermolli (Africa) and Tryon (the Americas). Six species are recognized in this large area. Many species that have been proposed are evidently local variants and not recognized here.
23313456|Pavonia bahamensis (Malvaceae) is a shrub that is endemic to the southeastern Bahama Islands. Here I present the first detailed description of its pollination biology. On San Salvador Island, P. bahamensis appears to be pollinated exclusively by two bird species, Bananaquits and Bahama Woodstars. This pollination dependence was dramatically demonstrated in one season when hurricanes decimated these bird populations, and pollen deposition and fruit set of P. bahamensis was significantly reduced. However, the lack of pollination limitation of fruit set during two other flowering seasons and the relatively low pollen/ovule ratio (607) suggests that pollination of P. bahamensis by these birds is generally reliable. Flowers show traits typical for a bird pollination syndrome, except that the corolla is green. Flowers are held horizontally on the shrub, rather than vertically, suggesting that passerine birds (Bananaquits) rather than hummingbirds have been the most effective pollinator and major selective agent for the floral traits in this species. Individual Bahama Woodstars are ineffective pollinators, depositing few or no pollen grains on stigmas per visit; however, they maintained pollination in one season when visits by Bananaquits were infrequent, and they contributed to the reliability of pollination for this endemic species.
23313459|A floristic inventory of the Waccasassa Bay State Preserve in southwestern Levy County, Florida was conducted from April 1996 to December 1997. The 12,488 ha (30,849 acres) Preserve yielded vouchers for a total of 2 charophytes, 24 liverworts, 29 mosses, 43 macrolichens, and 576 vascular plants. Of the vascular plants, there is 1 lycopsid, 12 ferns, 1 cycad, 4 conifers, and 555 angiosperms, 178 of which are monocots. Sixty-nine species are nonindigenous, and 73 species are recorded for the first time from Levy County. Seventy-two species are at or near their northern or southern limits, 18 species have disjunct distributions or very restricted ranges in Florida, and 16 species are Florida endemics or near-endemics. Five natural plant communities, as well as ruderal areas, were recognized based on field observations: tidal marsh, coastal hydric hammock, freshwater pools, basin swamp, and mesic to scrubby flatwoods. Treatment of the coastal hydric hammock as a single highly variable community, as opposed to a mosaic of intermixed communities, was supported by a limited quantitative analysis.
23314647|The composition and structure of vegetation in beaver wetlands located in Franklin and Hampshire Counties of western Massachusetts were studied from 1980 to 1995. A flora of 231 vascular plants was recorded within fifteen selected field sites including seven new county records and one state-listed species (Ophioglossum vulgatum var. pseudopodum). Relatively few species (5.6% of the total flora) were introduced. Factors contributing to high vascular plant diversity included 1) steep hydrological gradients created by beaver dams; 2) spatial heterogeneity caused by beaver artifacts, human structures and geological features; and 3) temporal heterogeneity resulting from beaver activity and hydrological fluctuations. While beaver activity has helped maintain regional vascular plant diversity in western Massachusetts since the reestablishment of beaver populations in the 1920s, current increases in beaver densities may pose a threat to later successional wetland species.
23314644|Five new species of Verbesina are described, V. biserrata, V. clarkae, V. maldonadoensis, and V. pichinchensis all from Ecuador, and V. perijaensis from Colombia.
23314646|The structure, composition, and floristics of understory swamp forest vegetation in Ned's Ditch, a segment of a regularly flooded oxbow in Northampton, Massachusetts, has been investigated at intervals from 1973 through 1996. The forest canopy is dominated by Acer saccharinum in association with Quercus palustris and Fraxinus pennsylvanica; these species are regenerating despite the deaths of a number of trees between 1975 and 1985. The shrub stratum, dominated by Cephalanthus occidentalis, has remained relatively unchanged. In the herbaceous stratum, species abundances fluctuate from year to year in relation to flooding and other aspects of hydrology with aquatics such as Lemna minor increasing during wet years and annuals, particularly Bidens spp., growing to maturity in times of drought. The abundance of Osmunda regalis and Onoclea sensibilis has remained relatively constant over the 23 year period, but tree seedlings have become increasingly important though few have been recruited to the upper strata. Overall, emergent and floating hydrophytes in the herb stratum have tended to decline although the composition of the flora of the herb stratum continues to strongly resemble the flora of adjacent marshes. These observations suggest that preserving and successfully managing Ned's Ditch and similar floodplain forests will require the maintenance of species of diverse ecological requirements adapted to a range of habitat conditions.
23314645|A field experiment tested whether seed maturation in Canada mayflower (Maianthemum canadense) was pollen limited and whether ramets flowering for the first time differed from ramets flowering for the second time in the number of seeds that they matured. Addition of pollen increased the number of seeds matured by ramets and therefore seed maturation was pollen limited. No difference in the number of seeds matured by ramets flowering for the first time and ramets flowering for the second time was detected and thus previous flowering did not appear to affect current seed maturation. There was a positive relationship between the number of seeds matured by ramets and the total weight of these seeds. This relationship did not differ between ramets flowering for the first and second times.
23313382|Nonindigenous vascular plant species have been introduced, intentionally or unintentionally, since Europeans landed in what is now New England some time in 1496. We know little about the native flora of New England at that time. John Josselyn's New England Rarities Discovered recorded both the native and European plants he saw during his two visits to southeastern Maine and is the earliest report on the flora of what is now New England. Subsequent writers, such as Manasseh Cutler, also documented both the native and increasing number of non-native species that became naturalized in this region. This paper discusses both the intentional and nonintentional introductions from Europe and the later introductions from eastern Asia. Various modes of unintentional introductions such as ballast plants and agricultural "stowaways" are presented. Species that are native to other regions of North America and that have naturalized in New England are mentioned. Currently, over 1000 vascular plant species that are not considered indigenous to the region exist in the New England flora. A few introductions have become so aggressive in their establishment around New England that they are now acknowledged as invasive species. Early botanical works and herbarium records are used here to document arrivals and changes in the flora.
23313384|In a New Jersey QuercusFagusAcer saccharum forest (Drew University Forest Preserve), the exotic tree Norway maple (A. platanoides) is a major and growing presence in all size classes. Norway maple, long one of North America's favorite shade trees, is invading nature preserves in New Jersey and elsewhere. Research in the Drew Forest Preserve shows that the forest is not a tight, resilient unit that repels invasions. Norway maple does not rely upon disturbance or edges. Norway maple seedlings are shadetolerant and abundant, far outnumbering sugar maple and beech seedlings in the heart of the forest preserve. An analysis of population size and age structure shows that Norway maple trees date back to 1915 or earlier and are present in all subsequent age classes. Spatial studies show clumped distributions for Norway maples as for other plant species but show no restriction to edges. In the understory, species richness is significantly lower beneath Norway maple than under sugar maple or beech, and most stems under Norway maple are additional Norway maples. A restoration experiment (with tree removal plots and seedling removal plots) was begun in 1998 in a patch of 75-year-old sugar and Norway maples; this unusually simple two-species area will elucidate the competitive interaction over time. Other invasive species also penetrate relatively undisturbed forest; Lonicera japonica, Alliaria petiolata, Berberis thunbergii, and Wisteria floribunda are present alongside Norway maple in the Drew Forest Preserve. Nor is disturbance needed to admit exotic pathogens or insect pests that attack native trees. The threat to the eastern deciduous forest is grave. If the forest is not sufficiently resilient to weather the onslaught of intentional and accidental introductions, then intervention is urgently needed.
23313379|The lotting surveys from northern New England and New York provide a unique opportunity to derive quantitative documentary evidence on past forests. Due to the distinctive "proprietory town" land tenure system, northern New England has an extensive and virtually untapped archive of land division surveys done prior to settlement (17631820). I searched archives throughout Vermont, New Hampshire, and northern New York and located records from 179 towns documenting 48,260 individual trees across the region. Surveyors used 131 separate vernacular names representing at least 49 recognizable species. This collection of town-wide witness tree relative frequencies is a consistent and unbiased empirical estimate of the composition of the natural vegetation before confounding land use. Five ubiquitous taxa (beech, spruces, maples, hemlock, birches) comprised 79% of the witness trees. Beech (32%) consistently dominated the region with greater than 60% of the trees in some towns. Spruce (14%) was the second most abundant species and found throughout the region. Maples (12%) were consistently distributed with peak abundance in Vermont. Hemlock (12%) had a patchy distribution with pockets of abundance, including the eastern Adirondacks. Birches (9%) were a species group with higher abundance in the mountains or to the north. White pine was consistently uncommon with very low (<1%) abundance on the uplands. A dramatic "oakbeech" tension zone or ecotone separated the oakpine vegetation in the major southern valleys from the sprucemaplebeech composition northward. The central tendency was toward sprucehardwoods with distinctive variants in the north, the Taconics, and the Champlain Valley. Major fires and blowdowns were equally rare and affected only 0.5% of the region. Fire was frequent only in the Hudson-Champlain corridor and windthrow was a low-level background disturbance. The most dramatic changes documented over the past 200 years have been the decline of beech and the profound effects of human land use.
23313383|To prevent species from going extinct and to restore locally extinct species to conservation areas, conservationists have been attempting to create new populations of rare and endangered species. Such efforts are still at an early stage, with the basic methodology still being developed and many efforts resulting in failures or only modest success. The purpose of this work was to develop some general rules about how to carry out reintroduction efforts using four methods to create many new populations of eight perennial species. Our results demonstrate that the chances of success were greater when planting seedling and adult material rather than sowing seeds on the sites. Using larger adult material was more successful than using seedlings. Adult transplants also flowered and fruited right away, in contrast to plants derived from seeds, which rarely flowered even after several years. Digging up the site to expose the soil and reduce competition prior to sowing seed did not result in a greater establishment of seedlings. At many sites no plants survived at all, or success was low. These results emphasize the difficulties of establishing new plant populations. To increase the rate of success, attempts should utilize many sites, numerous seeds or plants, and various methods in order to develop a workable methodology for the species in question. Because of the difficulties of establishing new populations, conservation of rare and endangered species should first protect existing populations and only secondarily rely on reintroductions to ensure species survival.
23314639|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the families of Monocotyledons except Poaceae and Cyperaceae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. The 325 of the 329 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms) treated are mapped based on specimens in the major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with primary emphasis on the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in recent manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23314235|A qualitative floristic survey of Wallace Woods, Linesville, Pennsylvania, was conducted during the growing seasons of 20052007. The 12.9 ha tract is situated in the western portion of Crawford County, within the Northwestern Glaciated Plateau Section of the Appalachian Plateaus Province. Wallace Woods has been the property of the Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology through the University of Pittsburgh since 1962. Seven habitats were delineated within this site: 1) Upland HemlockHardwoods Forest, 2) Elevated Alluvial Woodland Terrace, 3) Golden Saxifrage Woodland Seep, 4) Skunk Cabbage Swamp, 5) Alluvial Creek Floodplain, 6) Riparian Creekbank, Gravelbars, and Mudflats, and 7) Culturally Derived Ruderal Roadside. The vascular flora consisted of 384 specific and infraspecific taxa in 229 genera from 83 families. Eighty (20.8%) taxa were exotics. Plant division representation was one Equisetophyta, three Lycopodiophyta, 15 Polypodiophyta, two Pinophyta, and 363 Magnoliophyta (97 Liliopsida, 266 Magnoliopsida). The largest five families were the Asteraceae (40), Poaceae (37), Cyperaceae (32), Rosaceae (23), and Fabaceae (12). Twenty-one taxa (5.5%) were new records for Crawford County.
23314234|Field and herbarium research has revealed three newly recognized introduced and naturalized mosses in the northeastern United States. Rhytidiadelphus squarrosus, as that name is often applied in eastern North America, consists of a widespread common native species, R. subpinnatus, a carpet-forming moss of wet conifer and conifer-hardwood forest, and R. squarrosus in the strict sense, an introduced and naturalized moss that appears to be infrequent in eastern North America and restricted to weedy habitats such as lawns. Kindbergia praelonga is documented to occur on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts, in lawns in Nantucket town, indicating that it is a naturalized member of the bryoflora. There may also be native populations of this moss elsewhere in eastern North America, but this is unconfirmed. A moss of the southeastern and midwestern United States, Funaria flavicans, has been found with mature sporophytes in flower pots at a retail nursery on Nantucket Island in circumstances indicating it is an adventive. It may be a waif, or possibly a member of the naturalized bryoflora of Massachusetts, if in the future populations outside cultivation are found. New occurrences of a European moss, Psuedoscleropodium purum, from Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and in other places in eastern North America (Nova Scotia and North Carolina) add substantially to the previously known distribution of this moss. These new collections were in part from residential lawns and similar habitats outside of cemeteries where most of the previously known occurrences were concentrated, which may indicate that this moss is spreading.
23314233|A taxonomic survey is presented for Leucophysalis. The genus is of interest because L. grandiflora has the northernmost distribution of any Solanaceae in North America and because of its possible link to certain Asian species of the family. A key to species, synonymy, and a discussion of generic relationships is included.
23314230|Calamagrostis perplexa is a New York State endemic grass species, hypothesized to be of hybrid origin, that previously was known only from a single locality. We provide a summary of its taxonomic history, report new New York records and ecological information for the taxon, and include a principal components analysis and key characterizing morphological variation in C. perplexa and its putative close relatives C. canadensis, C. porteri, C. rubescens, and C. scribneri. Calamagrostis perplexa is now known from two extant populations and a third population of unknown status; it remains a New York state endemic.
23314231|A survey of oligohaline and mesohaline tidal marshes along the upper reaches of eight tidal rivers in the Great Bay Estuary of New Hampshire was conducted to document the occurrence of eastern grasswort, Lilaeopsis chinensis, a state-listed, rare species. Historical sites were visited to assess the presence, absence, or significant population changes of this rare coastal species. We re-located four of five historically documented element occurrences, noted the plant's potential expansion on several rivers and a decline at three other sites, and identified a new occurrence on a river system with no prior documented accounts. The results suggest that overall, L. chinensis has been relatively stable for the last 60 years, although the loss of plants at three of the sites suggests it is threatened by continued development (dams and tidal restrictions) and associated impacts to water quality.
23314229|Recently, the native shrub or small tree Aralia spinosa has been reported from the northeastern United States farther north of its traditional range, while the Asian shrub A. elata has been reported to be naturalizing across the same region. Herbarium and field studies have clarified the current ranges of A. spinosa and A. elata in the eastern United States, with almost all recent reports of A. spinosa in the northeastern United States north of Maryland and Delaware being based on misidentifications of A. elata. Aralia elata is well established and rapidly spreading throughout all 25 counties in the New York metropolitan area. The most reliable characters for separating the two species are the length of the central inflorescence axis, fruit size, and seed size. Many herbarium specimens of these woody Aralia species cannot be confidently identified to species because they lack or have incomplete inflorescences/infructescences. Proper preparation of voucher specimens requires at a minimum the collection of the proximal portion of the inflorescence/infructescence.
23314232|Alvars in the vicinity of Enterprise, Northwest Territories, had 87 species of vascular plants. Of these, 14 were frequent or at least locally abundant, including: Juniperus horizontalis, J. communis var. depressa, Geum triflorum var. triflorum, Carex richardsonii, Populus tremuloides, Elymus trachycaulus subsp. trachycaulus, Koeleria macrantha, Saxifraga tricuspidata, Artemesia campestris subsp. borealis, Senecio lugens, Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, and Galium boreale. Of the trees comprising the surrounding forest, only Populus tremuloides and Pinus banksiana were common in the open areas. The cliff tops had fewer species but they also had some species of arctic and high boreal affinity that were absent from the alvars. Associations characterized by Deschampsia caespitosa occurred in lower areas of alvar that collect run-off, whereas higher areas were characterized by a variety of plants including Carex richardsonii, Elymus trachycaulus, and Geum triflorum. Cracks in the limestone pavement in elevated areas were occupied by Pinus banksiana and Juniperus communis. Approximately 12% of the species present were rare and/or restricted, including Avenula hookeri, Carex filifolia, and Dodecatheon pulchellum. Compared to the alvars of the Great Lakes region, the alvars and cliff tops of Northwest Territories had a much higher percentage of species that were also found in the Beringian region of northwestern North America. Higher numbers of boreal, arctic, and cordilleran species also contributed to the distinctive nature of Northwest Territories alvars, based on clustering of similarity coefficients from species presence or absence data. The alvar flora of Northwest Territories is believed to have been established in the region of Great Slave Lake between 10,000 and 8000 years ago, prior to invasion of the boreal forest. At this time, the northwestern Beringian and Cordilleran floras met the retreating tundra and prairie floras from the south in an expanding ice-free corridor. The relict flora of Northwest Territories alvars and cliff tops includes species of the Beringian steppes and tundras such as Plantago canescens, species of the central North American plains such as Geum triflorum, and many species that could have originated from the prairie-like habitats of either region. This unusual relict flora, originating in early postglacial times, is now isolated within the present boreal forest that spread through the region approximately 8000 years ago.
23314242|The published images in Mark Catesby's Natural History are compared with the original watercolors now preserved in the Royal Library at Windsor Castle, England. This comparison has allowed for a more exact evaluation of the 174 plants illustrated by Catesby, resulting in determination of all plant species but one. The typification of most plant names is given in detail, with full bibliographic citations. Most non-plant organisms associated with the plant images are also identified and their nomenclatural status discussed. Catesby plates are newly designated here as lectotypes or neotypes for the following plant names: Cassine paragua Mill., Dracontium foetidum L., Echites umbellatus Jacq., Ficus citrifolia Mill., Fraxinus caroliniana Mill., Gleditsia aquatica Marshall, Hibiscus tiliaceus L., Ilex caroliniana Mill., Ipomoea catesbaei G.F.W. Mey., Laurus sassafras L., L. winterana L., Magnolia virginiana L. var. foetida L., Malva abutiloides L., Menispermum carolinum L., Passiflora cuprea L., Platanus occidentalis L., Quercus incana W. Bartram, Q. virginiana Mill., Rhizophora mangle L., Vanilla mexicana Mill., and Zanthoxylum clava-herculis L. As a result of this review, conservation proposals are being considered for two plant names (Quercus nigra L. and Plumeria alba L.) while rejection proposals are being prepared for one plant name (Smilax lanceolata to maintain S. smallii Morong). Two animal names (Eruca maximacornuta Edwards, an earlier name for Bombyx regalis Fabricius, the basionym of Citheronia regalis, the regal moth, and Papilio carolinianus Edwards, an earlier name for P. marcellus, the basionym of Protographium marcellus or Eurytides marcellus, the zebra swallowtail) are hereby suppressed as neither name has been accepted over the past one hundred years.
23314243|Gentiana latidens, previously described by House as a variety of G. saponaria, is here raised to specific rank. This species is endemic to the Balsam Mountains and nearby ranges in western North Carolina. It is most similar to G. clausa, from which it differs most notably in its larger flowers with larger, more variable calyx lobes and less tightly closed corollas that taper more gradually toward the summit.
23313758|An analysis of the vascular epiphytes of El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve was made based on eight years of field work and herbarium data. Four hundred and sixty five species and infraspecies of vascular epiphytes from 131 genera and 31 families are listed. Approximately 9% were found to be true epiphytes, whereas 0.65% were accidental epiphytes. Orchidaceae was the most species-rich family, although the genera Peperomia, Tillandsia, and Polypodium were the most rich in epiphytes.
23313759|The two names proposed by C. C. Huang in 1991, Atalantia fongkaica and Fortunella bawangica, were not validly published because the herbarium in which the types were deposited was not specified. These names are validated here.
23313757|A floristic inventory of vascular plants for The Nature Conservancy's Tiger Creek Preserve and Saddle Blanket Scrub Preserve, on the Lake Wales Ridge, Polk County, Florida, was conducted from August 2004 through February 2008. The 2308 combined hectares of the Preserves yielded 553 taxa, of which 54 are non-native, 37 are at or near the southern or northern limits of their ranges in Florida, and 24 are new Polk County records. Fifty-five taxa endemic to Florida were found, of which 27 are restricted to Florida peninsular scrubs or scrub/sandhill ecotonal habitats. Nine of these taxa are restricted to four or fewer counties. Twenty-seven are listed in Florida as endangered, threatened, or of management concern, and 18 are listed federally. Twelve plant communities are characterized: scrub, scrubby flatwoods, sandhill, xeric hammock, mesic flatwoods, wet flatwoods, bayhead, seepage slope, depression marsh, floodplain wetlands, blackwater stream, and ruderal. Descriptions and photographs of the plant communities are provided.
23313756|Plants growing on seabird-nesting islands are uniquely adapted to deal with guano-derived soils high in N and P. Such ornithocoprophilous plants found in isolated, oceanic settings provide useful models for ecological and evolutionary investigations. The current study explored the plants found on Mount Desert Rock (MDR), a small seabird-nesting, oceanic island 44 km south of Mount Desert Island (MDI), Hancock County, Maine, U.S.A. Twenty-seven species of vascular plants from ten families were recorded. Analyses of guano-derived soils from the rhizosphere of the three most abundant species from bird-nesting sites of MDR showed significantly higher (P < 0.05) NO 3 - , available P, extractable Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn, and significantly lower Mn compared to soils from the rhizosphere of conspecifics on non-bird nesting coastal bluffs from nearby MDI. Bio-available Pb was several-fold higher in guano soils than for background levels for Maine. Leaf tissue elemental analyses from conspecifics on and off guano soils showed significant differences with respect to N, Ca, K, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, and Pb, although trends were not always consistent. Two-way ANOVA indicated a significant interaction between species and substrate for Ca, Mg, Zn, and Pb tissue accumulation, showing that for these four elements there is substantial differentiation among species found on and off of guano soil. A compilation of species lists from other important seabird-nesting islands in the region suggested an ornithocoprophilous flora for northeastern North America consisting of 168 species from 39 families, with Asteraceae (29 taxa; 17.3%), Poaceae (25 taxa; 14.9%), Polygonaceae (10 taxa; 5.95%), Caryophyllaceae (9 taxa; 5.4%), and Rosaceae (9 taxa; 5.4%) as the most species-rich families. The taxa were predominantly hermaphroditic (69%) and perennial (66%) species, native (60%) to eastern North America.
23314193|The serpentine-substrate effect is well documented for vascular plants, but the literature for bryophytes is limited. The majority of literature on bryophytes in extreme geoedaphic habitats focuses on the use of species as bioindicators of industrial pollution. Few attempts have been made to characterize bryophyte floras on serpentine soils derived from peridotite and other ultramafic rocks. This paper compares the bryophyte floras of both a peridotite and a granite outcrop from the Deer Isles, Hancock County, Maine, and examines tissue elemental concentrations for select species from both sites. Fifty-five species were found, 43 on serpentine, 26 on granite. Fourteen species were shared in common. Twelve species are reported for the first time from serpentine soils. Tissue analyses indicated significantly higher Mg, Ni, and Cr concentrations and significantly lower Ca:Mg ratios for serpentine mosses compared to those from granite. Soil analyses demonstrated significant differences between the two substrates.
23314195|A floristic survey of a polje lakebed, which is full in the spring but drains completely as the season progresses, revealed a community of small mud-bottom plants including the globally rare Coleanthus subtilis, not previously recorded from Northwest Territories, Canada. The newly discovered site is 1077 miles NNW of its nearest North American location in southern British Columbia, which is the northern edge of a region of occurrence including southern British Columbia and the Columbia River in Washington and Oregon. The lakebed flora included four zones of vascular plants. Coleanthus subtilis was confined to the lowest level mud-bottom community, which had been exposed for the shortest period and included a rich assemblage of annuals including Juncus bufonius, Limosella aquatica, and Ranunculus hyperboreus. The lakebed flora included mostly widespread boreal species, and C. subtilis may be included in this category. It appears restricted to specific montane and boreal areas by its requirement of pronounced seasonal inundation in a cool climate. Coleanthus subtilis may have persisted at the Washington and British Columbia locations, near the limit of the continuous montane glaciation, since early postglacial times. The occurrence in Northwest Territories may be either a result of dispersal from unglaciated areas of Beringia nearby to the west or from the south. Although it has sometimes been considered introduced in the United States parts of its North American range, it is here considered native at all of its North American sites on the basis of: (1) its restricted and unusual habitat; (2) global rarity; (3) suffusive rarity, which is known to lead to mistaken assumptions of introduction; (4) occurrence in botanically rich regions and close association with rare native species; (5) relatively early year of collection; (6) distribution corresponding to a well recognized native pattern; (7) lack of evidence of spread to anthropogenic habitats; and (8) the fact that it is easily overlooked by early collectors as a result of only appearing at intervals of several years when water levels have dropped sufficiently.
23314194|Serpentine outcrops are model habitats for geoecological studies. While much attention has been paid to serpentine outcrops worldwide, the literature on eastern North American serpentine and associated biota is scant. This review examines the available literature, published and unpublished, on geoecological studies conducted on serpentine in eastern North America, from Newfoundland through Qubec and New England south to Alabama. Most serpentine outcrops in the region have been mapped, but there have been few intensive mineralogical and pedological investigations. The limited soil analyses available suggest elevated levels of heavy metals such as Ni, near-neutral pH values, and Ca:Mg ratios < 1, characteristic of serpentine soils worldwide. Botanical studies to date have largely focused on floristic surveys and the influence of fire exclusion and grazing on indigenous vegetation. To date, 751 taxa of vascular plants belonging to 92 families have been reported from serpentine outcrops in the region. Two taxa, Agalinis acuta and Schwalbea americana, are federally endangered in the United States while many others are listed as rare, endangered, or imperiled in one or more states or provinces. Globally, six species, Adiantum viridimontanum, Minuartia marcescens, Pycnanthemum torrei, S. americana, Scirpus longii, and Symphyotrichum depauperatum are listed as imperiled (G2) while one species, Agalinis acuta, is listed as critically imperiled (G1). Cerastium velutinum var. villosissimum is the only recognized serpentine endemic plant for eastern North America while Adiantum viridimontanum, Aspidotis densa, M. marcescens, and S. depauperatum are largely restricted to the substrate. Based on current distributions, we propose that A. viridimontanum and M. marcescens be considered endemic to serpentine substrates in eastern North America. Studies on cryptogams list 165 species of lichens and 146 species of bryophytes for the region. None of the species found appear to be restricted to the substrate. Compared to other regions of the world, ecophysiological and evolutionary investigations are scant. Biosystematic investigations are restricted to the taxa Adiantum aleuticum, C. velutinum var. villosissimum, and S. depauperatum. Plant-soil relations, especially the capacity to hyperaccumulate metals such as Ni and the ecological consequences of metal accumulation, are also under explored. One report from eastern Canada lists Arenaria humifusa, M. marcescens, Packera paupercula, and Solidago hispida as hyperaccumulating Ni although the findings have yet to be confirmed by subsequent investigations. Overall, serpentine geoecology in eastern North America remains largely unexplored.
23313223|Recent herbarium and field studies have added 38 species and deleted 192 species from the flora of Vermont. The additions include 25 recently discovered species and 13 species based on older records that have been overlooked or misinterpreted. Ten additions are rare native species. Four of these are currently listed as state Threatened or Endangered species. The additions bring the total flora of Vermont to approximately 1933 species. The 192 deleted species, if included in the flora, would increase this number by 10%. The deletions include misidentified and misinterpreted species, cultivated plants incorrectly listed as naturalized, and many species that lack vouchers altogether. The geography of the added and deleted records suggests that many of the added species may be recent immigrants, and that many of the unvouchered species are highly unlikely in Vermont and are probably mistakes. A review of the number of species that have been deleted from the seven previous Vermont floras suggests that the apparent error rates of these floras have ranged from 0.3% to 5.4% of the species listed by each flora, with an average error rate of 2.4%.
23313226|Eriogonum codium (Polygonaceae: Eriogonoideae), a low, matted, cespitose perennial with tomentose flowers and achenes found on the Hanford Nuclear Reservation (the Hanford Site), Benton Co., Washington, U.S.A., is described as a new species. It belongs to the same group of matted perennials in the subgenus Eucycla as E. chrysops but has a cymose-umbellate inflorescence similar to E. cusickii. The tomentose flowers and achenes readily distinguish the new species from all of its near relatives.
23313224|We discovered a population of Thorea violacea in the upper Hudson River of New York State during September 1994. The same site was barren of Thorea the following June, but two and a half months latera year after the initial collectiona large population of thalli, some over a meter in length, was again present. This seasonality may account in part for the seeming rarity of this large, conspicuous alga. Thalli presumed to represent the Chantransia phase of the Thorea life cycle occurred on rocks at the same location with the same phenology. The Hudson River site represents the first confirmed North American locality of T. violacea north of Texas and the most northerly North American locality of the family Thoreaceae. Characterization of the chemical and physical conditions at the study site suggests broader environmental tolerances (lower specific conductance, greater water flow, colder water regimes) of this group than previously known.
23313225|Amelanchier nantucketensis, Nantucket shadbush, thought to be restricted to coastal Massachusetts and Long Island, New York, is now also known from Maine, Maryland, inland Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Nova Scotia. Distribution is greater in part due to a wider circumscription of the species; A. nantucketensis intergrades with and therefore includes A. stolonifera f. micropetala. The 41 extant populations reported here each consist of up to 13 individuals, grow in early successional sites, and almost always occur with other Amelanchier species. Conservation at the state level is recommended for A. nantucketensis, which should be included in administrative rare plant lists. Protection of local populations would be best effected by controlling vegetation to maintain an early successional stage.
23313227|Taxus canadensis (Canada yew) in Hanover, New Hampshire, was studied to determine the relative importance of site factors, deer browsing, and past landuse in determining its distribution. Data indicate that the species' distribution is strongly linked to habitats with high soil moisture and low solar radiation (e.g., concave and/or north-facing slopes). Taxus canadensis is less abundant on slopes and in habitats with southern exposure. Deer browsing is greater on south-facing than on north-facing slopes and higher under deciduous than under coniferous canopies. Species associations do not indicate a restriction of Taxus canadensis to sites of particular (canopy) successional status, but land-use data suggest that it may be absent from areas which have been recently logged. Taxus canadensis is more abundant in Hanover than in sites in north-central Massachusetts, suggesting that suitable habitat for this species may increase with latitude.
23313214|The distinctive features of Fragaria multicipita Fernald, including small size, multicipital habit, floral aberrations and absence of runners to a greater or lesser degree, are symptoms of strawberry multiplier disease resulting from mycoplasma infection. Direct evidence of the disease in F. multicipita plants was obtained through graft inoculation using normal F. chiloensis which developed increasingly pronounced multiplier disease-like symptoms after three months. Plants referable to F. multicipita were not confined to specialized habitats. The chromosome number of 2n = 56 obtained from five small multicipital plants representing four locations was the same as that widely reported for the F. virginiana complex in North America. These observations suggest that F. multicipita is only a diseased form of F. virginiana, despite the stability of its distinctive traits in cultivation and the potential adaptive nature of these traits on cool disturbed rivershores. Accordingly, the new combination, Fragaria virginiana Duch. ssp. glauca (S. Wats.) Staudt f. multicipita (Fern.) Catling & J. Cayouette, is proposed.
23313213|As part of the process of closing Fort Devens in north central Massachusetts, an intensive two year survey of vascular plants growing in the undeveloped area (6700 acres) of the fort was completed. A total of 857 naturally occurring taxa in 394 genera and 121 families were identified, including 18 rare taxa and 29 county records. The unusual diversity of taxa for the area is due to several factors which include land use history and the physical setting, as well as management practices and military activity which created or maintained early and mid-successional habitats.
23313211|Sterility of lake cress results from uncertain factors and may be a significant element in the decline of populations over the past century. The inability of lake cress (Neobeckia aquatica) to produce viable seeds restricts its dispersal to vegetative fragments which are transported less effectively over long distances. We obtained mitotic counts of 2n = 24 for individuals from seven populations of lake cress, a species for which the chromosome number was unreported previously. In context of chromosome number distribution in the Brassicaceae based on literature reports for 192 mustard genera, the base number of tribe Arabideae (in which lake cress is placed) and of all genera presumed to be closely related to lake cress is x = 8. The presence of 24 chromosomes indicates that lake cress is a triploid derived from an x = 8 chromosomal series. Highly sterile triploid hybrids (2n = 3x = 24) have also been reported in several genera related to lake cress. The extremely well-developed system of vegetative reproduction in lake cress may partially compensate for its sexual sterility. The discovery that lake cress is triploid offers a specific explanation for its sterility and discloses special considerations for the conservation of this rare species.
23313215|Vaccinium stamineum L. (deerberry) is a widespread species in the United States that reaches its northern limit in the Niagara Falls and Thousand Islands area of southern Ontario, Canada. Only five stations occur in Ontario, with the most extensive populations being found within St. Lawrence Islands National Park. Dry, open, rocky woods, with a history of fire, are the preferred habitat for this species in Canada. Whereas the largest stations are currently under government protection, their proximity to existing trails, a lack of seedling recruitment, and encroachment by later successional vegetation suggests that this species could become extirpated if the factors affecting its vulnerability are not reversed. For these reasons V. stamineum is recognized as a threatened species in Canada.
23313216|Allelopathic effects of Lantana camara L. foliar leachates and dried leaf amendments on Ipomoea tricolor Cav. radicle growth, shoot emergence, and plant biomass were examined over a 50-day period. Aqueous leaf extracts of L. camara decreased radicle growth of Ipomoea but germination percentage was not inhibited. Dried leaf residue in soil growth media delayed shoot emergence from soil. Plant biomass after 50 days was not affected by the presence of L. camara soil amendments. Leaf extracts in petri dishes were more inhibitory than was dried leaf material in soil. These results indicate the presence of phytotoxic compounds in L. camara. Allelopathic effects of these compounds are significant during early germination of Ipomoea, while plants older than 2 weeks appear unaffected. In the soil environment allelopathic effects are minimal, possibly due to chemical binding, microbial action, or both.
23313212|Recent books covering the flora of Washington admit only one species of Lesquerella, L. douglasii S. Watson, to the flora of the state. A different, undescribed species of this genus has been recognized from recent collections. The new species was first collected in 1883 but the specimens from that gathering are incomplete and they were never appropriately utilized. The new species is named L. tuplashensis and it is compared with L. douglasii, its nearest relative.
23313154|Chromosome numbers were determined for 54 individuals of Newfoundland Antennaria representing 8 species: A. cana (2n=56), A. columnaris (2n=56), A. confusa (2n=56), A. eucosma (2n=56), A. gaspensis (2n=56), A. howellii (2n=56), A. pulvinata (2n=56), and A. staminea (2n=56). The tetraploid determinations for populations of both A. eucosma and A. howellii (reported as A. neodioica) support previous determinations for these two species. Chromosome number determinations for all other species represent first reports.
23313156|Peatlands, while ecologically interesting and abundant in the northeast, have gone largely unstudied in New Hampshire. This baseline study focuses on a vegetation analysis of the vascular flora of Pequawket Bog, Ossipee, New Hampshire. A total flora of 109 species, including Eriophorum angustifolium, an endangered plant species for the state of New Hampshire, was documented for the bog. Using stratified random sampling, 287 plots from 10 transects were sampled for percent cover of vascular plant species. Five vegetation cover types and nine subtypes were determined using the computer classification program TWINSPAN. The five cover types include: a Nymphaea odorata cover type, a Carex lasiocarpa cover type, a Chamaedaphne calyculata-Woodwardia virginica cover type, a Chamaedaphne calyculata-Vaccinium oxycoccos-Eriophor um virginicum cover type, and an Acer rubrum-Vaccinium corymbosum-Lyonia ligustrina cover type.
23313155|Forty-six native or naturalized species, varieties, or hybrids are reported as additions to Dowhan's Preliminary Checklist of the Vascular Flora of Connecticut. These represent 21 native taxa and 25 apparently naturalized taxa. Each taxon is presented with a brief history of its discovery in Connecticut. Dates are presented for the earliest known voucher specimen for each addition.
23313158|Urtica chamaedryoides is reported for the first time to Cuba.
23313157|The discovery of the Marsh Sow-thistle (Sonchus palustris) growing in the Waterloo Region of Ontario, Canada is reported.
23313203|Plants of the natural hybrid of Drosera anglica Huds. and Drosera linearis Goldie were discovered in a fen in Chippewa County, Michigan and are herein reported for the first time. Leaf aspects of the hybrid are intermediate between the parents and are best expressed as a leaf blade length/width ratio. Multiple measurements of the ratio in the parents and putative hybrid indicate an intermediate state. Chromosome evaluation indicates 2n = 30 (D. anglica 2n = 40, D. linearis 2n = 20 in the literature). Pollen viability is very low and no seeds are produced in the plants. The corolla is slightly larger in the hybrid than in either parent. In the field, the hybrid appears very vigorous and grows on two low mossy hummocks in a calcareous fen. In culture in the greenhouse, the hybrid plants show heterosis and leaf out and flower earlier in the season than the putative parents.
23313204|The chromosome number of Saxifraga gaspensis Fern., a taxon frequently included in the circumpolar species S. nivalis L., or considered a variety, was determined on material from Mount Logan, Gasp Peninsula, and found to be 2n = 40. As the chromosome number of S. nivalis is 2n = 60 (about 30 data from diverse countries), it seems that the plant described by Fernald in 1917 is specifically different. The authors suggest that S. gaspensis could be a stabilized relictual hybrid between S. nivalis and the closely related diploid species S. tenuis (Wahlenb.) H. Smith, 2n = 20, or a polyploid originating from S. tenuis.
23313202|This taxonomic treatment of Arabis (Brassicaceae) in Canada, Alaska and Greenland recognizes 30 species. A comprehensive key is provided for these species and 8 varieties. Four new species are described: A. boivinii G. Mulligan, sp. nov.; A. calderi G. Mulligan, sp. nov.; A. codyi G. Mulligan, sp. nov.; and A. murrayi, G. Mulligan, sp. nov. In addition, many other taxa are recorded for the first time for this area. Cytological studies available for 45 North American and Greenland species of Arabis are summarized and discussed. Thirty-six of these species have the basic chromosome-number of x = 7 and some have diploid, triploid and even tetraploid chromosome races. The Arabis species being treated here can reproduce sexually and/or by agamospermy.
23311169|The distribution, pollination ecology, and habitats of representatives of the Orchidaceae which occur naturally in New Hampshire, USA are discussed. The information was compiled from historic records and new field studies.
23314554|Chromosome numbers of one or more individuals from 269 collections of Aster pilosus were determined from throughout the range of the species. Two cytotypes were commonly encountered: 4x and 6x (x = 8). In var. pilosus, tetraploids and hexaploids were allopatric for the most part. Hexaploids occurred in the northwestern portion of the species' range. Intervarietal and infravarietal pentaploids encountered came from interface areas. All plants of A. pilosus var. pringlei (including var. demotus) were hexaploid and occurred in the northeastern portion of the range of the species. Only 3 plants were found to have supernumerary chromosomes. Two plants were putative heptaploids. In comparison, diploids have been found in the 3 related species A. porteri, A. depauperatus, and A. parviceps. First reports: A. parviceps, 2n = 16; A. pilosus var. pilosus, 2n = 35 and 2n = 42; A. pilosus var. pringlei, 2n = 48 + 28 supernumeraries and 2n = 56; A. pilosus var. priceae, 2n = 32.
23314551|The Antennaria Parlinii polyploid complex is a widespread species occurring throughout deciduous forests of eastern United States and southern portions of adjacent Canada. This group consists of two variable subspecies, ssp. Parlinii and ssp. fallax. The complex is composed of both sexual and agamospermous populations with distinct geographic distributions. Crosses were made in all combinations among several sexual diploid species of Antennaria that morphologically resemble members of the A. Parlinii complex to aid in identifying its diploid ancestors. The hybrids were then compared by principal components, cluster, and discriminant analyses, to the naturally-occurring polyploids. Results indicated that A. Parlinii s.l. was of multiple hybrid origin involving three sexual diploid species, Antennaria plantaginifolia, A. racemosa, and A. solitaria.
23314550|The Tusket River valley in southwestern Nova Scotia has many rare Atlantic coastal plain plant species. Sixteen lakes were examined for some specific rare shoreline plants: seven lakes through which the Tusket River flows and nine similar-sized lakes adjacent to or discharging into the Tusket River. The seven Tusket River lakes had significantly more rare species (P = 0.01): the richest shoreline floras occurred lowest in the watershed (P < 0.02). Two environmental factors which could produce these distributions are water level fluctuations associated with the Tusket River and presence of different glacial tills. Shoreline species such as Coreopsis rosea and Sabatia kennedyana are threatened by the disruptive effects of cottage development and all-terrain vehicle use.
23314555|Chromosome numbers in 39 species of Sedum Section Sedum and Subgenus Sulcus range from n = 11 to n = ca. 100, with about 38 different numbers known and no basic or ancestral number apparent. Dysploidy and/or polyploidy, up to 12-ploidy, occur within most of the more widespread species, and B-chromosomes were found in seven species. Common chromosome numbers are n = 12 (four species), n = 1819 (ten species), and n = 34 (nine species), with each of these numbers including some species that are similar and obviously related. Many crosses have been attempted, with some success, and in several cases pairing of the chromosomes in hybrids provides useful evidence regarding degree of relationship between parents. Most species occur as relatively small, scattered populations in restricted pioneer habitats; evidently this distribution has promoted rapid evolution of morphological and cytological diversity.
23314549|Spicebush in two Massachusetts populations is a species in which a basic dimorphism exists with equal numbers of male plants and female plants that are sexually constant and vegetatively similar. A low percentage of individuals have both male and female flowers.
23314556|Trifolium stoloniferum, the running buffalo clover, has apparently disappeared from most of its historical range and was considered to be possibly extinct. Two small extant populations have been recently found in West Virginia. Both populations are on disturbed floodplains, are threatened by human activity, and remain the only known extant populations. Circumstantial evidence suggests the disappearance of Trifolium stoloniferum is linked to the elimination of bison from its range.
23314548|Nineteen dunite and serpentine (ultramafic) areas in Vermont were explored for rare vascular plants. Twenty-one new stations or re-locations for Adiantum pedatum var. aleuticum, Arenaria macrophylla, Kalmia latifolia, Lycopodium selago, and Thelypteris simulata are reported and the distribution of ultramafic areas in Vermont is mapped. Characteristic vegetation on dunite outcrops below 2000 feet elevation is described. Threatened or endangered classification of the rare species is discussed. Lycopodium selago is proposed as a threatened species in Vermont.
23314553|Over a period of 52 years (193384) 43 annual surveys were made to monitor changes in the abundance and distribution of eelgrass (Zostera marina) at Cape Ann, Massachusetts. Intensive observations were made throughout the length of the Annisquam Tidal River and adjacent coves in Annisquam Harbor. After the epidemic of eelgrass disease (193032), eelgrass persisted only as a small patch in Goose Cove. Gradually additional patches appeared in the Annisquam System and a peak was reached in 1971-72, then eelgrass declined during 197377, with a recovery during 197882. This recovery was followed by almost total disappearance again in 1984. Fluctuations in annual precipitation, with consequent changes in salinity, were not always related to changes in eelgrass abundance. Wet years were favorable for the growth and spread of eelgrass, but with the exception of drought years related to a general epidemic along the north Atlantic coast (1930 and 1941), dry years did not retard eelgrass recovery at Cape Ann.
23314557|Mertensia maritima and Sagina nodosa ssp. nodosa are uncommon in Maine. S. nodosa ssp. borealis is considered rare. The results of a survey of 13 islands in Machias Bay show seven previously unreported stations for M. maritima and five each for S. nodosa ssp. nodosa and S. nodosa ssp. borealis. Variability in the characteristics used to separate the two subspecies of S. nodosa was found.
23314552|Red pine, the rarest coniferous tree species in Newfoundland, was earlier known from only eight locations of unknown ecological and mensurational characteristics. This study identifies 20 stands in three distinct geographic areas. Stands range from a few trees of varying density to those exceeding 100 ha containing several thousand trees. Red pine is found principally on coarse-textured sands and gravels of glacial outwash or lake bottom material, but is not entirely thus restricted, as two stands (Charles Arm and near Birchy Lake) are growing on bedrock or shattered bedrock with some mor humus cover. Repeated large wildfires around the turn of the century and more recently in 1946, 1961, 1977 and 1979, gravel extraction, and severe competition from more shade-tolerant coniferous trees have contributed to its decline.
23314566|The Seabrook Dunes, located in Seabrook, New Hampshire, represents the largest coastal sand dune remnant in the state. In 1982, a floristic inventory was conducted at this backdune community that documented 141 vascular plants. Special attention was given to nine rare species: Artemisia caudata and Puccinellia paupercula var. alaskana, rare; Ammophila breviligulata and Salicornia bigelovii, threatened; and Hudsonia ericoides ssp. tomentosa and Salicornia virginica, endangered. Three other endangered species, Arenaria peploides var. robusta, Aristida tuberculosa and Cyperus grayii occur in New Hampshire only at the Seabrook Dunes. The Seabrook Dune's populations of Ammophila breviligulata, Hudsonia ericoides and Salicornia virginica represent the most significant populations for these taxa in New Hampshire. The vegetation was described, mapped and classified into seven types: sunken forests, dunegrass, tall thickets, short shrub thickets, wet swales, salt marsh and drift-line.
23314569|The chromosome numbers of 245 individuals representing 145 taxa as well as hybrids from 21 genera are reported. The sample includes taxa with chromosomal base numbers of x = 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9. The following numbers are first reports for the taxa: Aster chilensis Nees, 2n = ca. 96; A. gormanii Piper, 2n = 9II; A. ledophyllus var. covillei (Greene) Cronq., 2n = 9II; A. perelegans Nels. & Macbr., 2n = 9II; A. radulinus Gray, 2n = 18. Supernumerary chromosomes were found in Aster prenanthoides T. & G., Erigeron inornatus Gray var. inornatus, Gutierrezia sarothrae (Pursh) Britt. & Rusby, Haplopappus venetus (H.B.K.) Blake, Lessingia nemaclada Greene, and Macheranthera commixta Greene.
23314575|The epizoic alga Basicladia vivipara is reported from Cook County, Illinois. Observations with regard to its growth and general morphology are compared to the type description.
23314574|The diatom Gomphonema angustatum var. sarcophagus (Greg.) Grun. is reduced to synonymy and the description of the nominate variety emended.
23314573|Betula alleghaniensis, B. cordifilia, and B. papyrifera from the Lake Superior region of Minnesota were compared morphologically in order to infer whether B. cordifolia is likely to be a hybrid of the other two species. Multivariate distance relationships based on 11 characters from leaves, pistillate catkins, or fruits suggested that such a hybrid status for B. cordifolia is unlikely. Chromosome counts from the literature are also inconsistent with this hypothesized hybrid ancestry.
23314563|The surviving trailside colony of Potentilla robbinsiana has declined in both number of reproducing plants (14.1%) and in area occupied (15.8%) during the period 19731983. Major causes of this mortality were hiker disturbance, drought, and frost heaving. Hiker impact has recently been reduced by increased regulation and the relocation of a short segment of the Appalachian Trail. Drought-caused mortality is largely limited to seedlings. Frost heaving is believed to be the most important current cause of mature plant mortality, especially in years of reduced snowfall. At the same time, frost heaving is believed to play a key role in slowing the invasion of other alpine plants, thus benefitting P. robbinsiana.
23314571|The correct name for Cyperus albomarginatus, a pantropical and warm-temperate sedge, is shown to be C. flavicomus Michaux.
23314565|Patterns of morphological variation within the genus Caulophyllum are documented by principal components analysis, which supports the recognition of C. giganteum and C. thalictroides in eastern North America, and C. robustum in eastern Asia. The two North American species are sympatrically distributed and reproductively isolated by staggered flowering times. Analysis of mixed populations of C. giganteum and C. thalictroides from northern Ohio further demonstrates the morphological and phenological divergence between these two species.
23314568|Veronica beccabunga L., indigenous to Eurasia, was introduced into North America toward the latter part of the nineteenth century. Originally confined to the East Coast of the United States, the range of the species has expanded to include seven states and two Canadian provinces. Historical evidence implicates ballast disposal in the initial introduction of the species, although multiple introductions may have occurred. Compared with other non-indigenous aquatic plants, the spread of V. beccabunga has been slower and less conspicuous. Interspecific competition with the native flora may have kept the progress of the species in check. The presently known distribution of V. beccabunga is mapped for North America. The species is dispersed mainly by plant fragments dislodged during periods of high water flow.
23314567|An inventory was made in the summer of 1982 of 42 vascular plant species previously identified as rare, threatened, or endangered in the coastal regions of seven New Hampshire towns. Field work was conducted to confirm historical records and investigate appropriate habitats for new sites. Of the 42 species, 14 are considered rare, 11 threatened, 13 endangered and 4 are believed to be extirpated from this area. Forty-eight new sites are reported, 12 of which are new town records.
23314570|Carex caesariensis was previously hypothesized to be a C. trichocarpa  C. walteriana hybrid, and has been variously treated as a species, as a hybrid, or has not been recognized at all in floras covering northeastern North America. Scatter diagrams and discriminant analysis suggest that it is a C. trichocarpa  C. lanuginosa hybrid. The diagnostic character combination includes perigynia with relatively short beaks (1.32.1 mm) and relatively short teeth (0.71.3 mm), elongate true sterile culms with nodes, and sheaths red-tinged at the apex and red-dotted on the inner band. Described originally from New Jersey, C. caesariensis is newly reported from Pennsylvania.
23314572|Carex jamesii Schwein. is reported new to Minnesota. The Carex flora of the state now stands at 143 species. The area where carices from four floristic provinces intermingle is illustrated and discussed as to its apparent relationship to Carex jamesii and other areas of floristic transition in the Great Lakes region.
23314589|A white-flowered variant of painted trillium, Trillium undulatum, is described as forma enotatum. The new form is distinguished from forma undulatum by lack of a red blaze near the base of the petals. It is known from three populations in the southern Appalachian Mountains of Georgia and North Carolina.
23314586|The first documented field observation of Malaxis paludosa in Minnesota since 1938 is reported. Herbarium specimens confirm the occurrence of the species in five counties in the state; three represent newly published records. The species occurs in Alaska, Canada and Eurasia. Description of the habitat and list of associated species is provided. One site is reported where M. paludosa grows sympatrically with its congeners M. unifolia and M. monophyllos.
23314590|Eight species of Monnina are known to occur in Central America: M. costaricensis Chod., M. crepinii Chod., M. guatemalensis Chod., M. saprogena Donn. Sm., M. sylvatica Schlecht. & Cham., M. xalapensis H. B. K., and two new species, M. ferreyrae Taylor and M. parasylvatica Taylor, described herein. Monnina xalapensis is treated here as a widely ranging and variable species that includes M. pittieri Chod. and M. latisepala Blake. Reports of the occurrence of M. pterocarpa DC. and M. brachystachya Griseb. in Central America have not been confirmed.
23314591|The genus Ribes has not been monographed on a worldwide basis since 1907, and this revision of sect. Grossularia is the first in a series of studies on this economically important genus. In the present study over 11,000 herbarium specimens were examined and extensive fieldwork conducted. Herbarium specimens examined provided detailed information about variation on a broad geographic scale in addition to allowing the distribution of each species to be plotted. Herbarium based studies were supplemented with field studies that provided an understanding of the variation within the section at the population level. Ability to contrast the intrapopulational variation indicated by field studies with broad interpopulational variation found from herbarium specimens allowed the assignment of taxonomic rank with confidence. Field studies were conducted through most of the range of the section in North America. A sample of herbarium specimens representing most of the variance within the section was analyzed by multivariate numerical taxonomic methods. The seventeen species recognized in sect. Grossularia in North America by Berger in 1924 are reduced to nine species, one having five subspecies, one with two varieties, and one with three varieties. The subspecies represent new combinations and one of the varieties has been re-established.
23314587|Morphologic features of the spikelets of Aristida intermedia Scribn. & Ball and A. longespica Poiret were compared using principal components and stepwise discriminant analyses. Major phenetic overlap existed between the two taxa. Central awn and lateral awn lengths were the best discriminators angle could not be used effectively. A single species with two varieties is proposed, var. longespica and var. geniculata (Raf.) Fern.
23314583|Talinum appalachianum Wolf, known from only one station in Alabama, is not distinct from T. parviflorum Nutt. Plants of T. parviflorum were sampled from Texas, Arkansas and Kansas and were compared with T. appalachianum. Plants of the four populations had the same chromosome number (2n = 24), very late diurnal anthesis, and were predominantly self-pollinating. Population means for four floral traits overlapped: petal length, number of stamens, style length and number of ovules. Talinum teretifolium Pursh appears to be an allotetraploid derivative of T. mengesii Wolf and T. parviflorum. Crosses between the latter two species produced sterile hybrids similar to T. teretifolium in floral morphology and pattern of diurnal anthesis. Fertile polyploid flowers, which developed after colchicine treatment, produced fertile offspring when crossed to T. teretifolium, selfed or sibbed.
23314588|The correct name for the grass known as Aristida affinis (Schultes) Kunth in the United States is A. palustris (Chapman) Vasey, A. affinis being a synonym of A. purpurescens Poiret. The taxonomic relationship of A. lanosa Muhl. ex Elliott and A. palustris was assessed using principal components and stepwise discriminant analyses. The two taxa are clearly distinguished by a combination of several vegetative and spikelet structures and are not closely related phenetically.
23312808|Kejimkujik National Park lies near the headwaters of the Mersey River, in the center of southwestern Nova Scotia on the Atlantic Upland. Lakes and streams are numerous; in this glaciated area, granite, slate and greywacke areas are represented, along with numerous drumlins. Distributions of coastal-plain plants in this protected area are discussed. Maps of Hydrocotyle umbellata L. and Cephalanthus occidentalis L. are given as examples of plants that are rare or unknown in the Tusket River valley.
23312802|The Appalachian Vaccinium erythrocarpum and the SE Asian V. japonicum are morphologically indistinct and share a similar chromosome number (n = 12). Their flavonoid profiles are also quite similar; however, the two taxa do show some difference in their capacity to accumulate derivatives of the two flavonols kaempferol and quercetin: V. japonicum accumulates both, while V. erythrocarpum accumulates only quercetin. Reciprocal crossing experiments between the taxa produce fertile hybrids. Therefore in the absence of a potential genetic barrier and no morphological gap, the reduction of these vicariads to subspecies is warranted. Consequently V. erythrocarpum subspecies japonicum, comb. et stat. nov. is proposed.
23312805|Differences in reproductive ecology and floral characteristics were investigated in three sympatric species of peatland orchids. Arethusa produced the highest percentage of flowers but the lowest percentage of seed capsules while Pogonia showed the opposite pattern. Calopogon had an intermediate percentage of flowers and a low capsule set. The pollination biology of these three species is discussed.
23312804|Naturally refrigerated (algific) talus slopes provide microclimates suitable for disjunct or relict populations of plants and invertebrates. Of 39 species of bryophytes collected on four of Wisconsin's largest algific slopes, one-third were restricted to cold air vents. Distribution of species on these slopes appears to be influenced by perennially stable air temperatures and condensate occurring at outflow vents. The moss Seligeria donniana is new to Wisconsin.
23312801|Aster section Biotia is an eastern North American group of asters having a base chromosome number of x = 9. Phenetic analyses of isozyme gene frequency data show that the species native to the eastern deciduous forest region, Aster divaricatus (2n = 18), A. chlorolepis (2n = 36), A. schreberi (2n = 54), and A. macrophyllus (2n = 72) are very closely related and perhaps form an increasing polyploid series. Isozyme data reveal that the two species whose ranges are restricted to the Piedmont, A. mirabilis (2n = 18) and A. jonesiae (2n = 54), are very closely allied and are more distantly related to the previous group. The endemic and midwestern A. furcatus (2n = 18) is isozymically most unlike the other species in the section. Isozyme data do not rule out the possibility that the hexaploids, A. schreberi and A. jonesiae, originated by retrogressive polyploidy rather than by progressive (increasing) polyploidy. The hypothesis that A. chlorolepis arose from A. divaricatus by autopolyploidy is supported by the electrophoretic data. The relationships of the diploids to one another and the mode of origin of A. macrophyllus are not clarified by the isozyme analyses.
23312809|In 1989, Eupatorium leucolepis var. novaeangliae was discovered growing on the northeast shoreline of North (Big) Hog pond in Sandwich, Barnstable County, Massachusetts. This record is the first for the species in Barnstable County, and represents the easternmost site in its range.
23312807|Carex polymorpha is a rare sedge of eastern North America, currently a candidate for Federal listing. Populations in Maine and Massachusetts were studied to establish a scientific basis for population monitoring, management, and protection. We examined potential and actual fecundity, and used pollination experiments to test hypotheses regarding breeding systems. Sexual reproductive characters were compared with the common species, C. vestita. Studies of vegetative reproduction of C. polymorpha included determination of rhizome growth patterns, above- and below-ground biomass, organ dimensions and dynamics of shoots in permanent plots. Both vegetative growth and sexual reproduction appear to be correlated with canopy closure. Numbers of flowering shoots, flowers and seeds appear to be limited by light availability. Both the number of achenes and the percent seed set per flowering shoot are similar in Carex polymorpha and C. vestita. Density of vegetative shoots and of leaf and rhizome sizes are also correlated with canopy cover: biomass production appears to be limited by light levels. Shoot dynamics are correlated with light and microhabitat type. The least stable shoot populations are in disturbed, open sand sites, while shoot populations in undisturbed, open canopy sites have high turnover rates but stable sizes. These results suggest that canopy management may be critical to maintenance of vegetative and sexual reproduction in established populations of Carex polymorpha.
23312806|Approximately 200 species in the family Compositae have been collected in the Guianas (Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana), South America. Members of the tribe Heliantheae s.l. collected in the Guianas or expected there are listed, and a key to the genera is provided.
23312803|Hymenoxys herbacea (comb. nov.), a federally-listed, threatened species endemic to Illinois, Ohio, and Ontario, has been treated formerly as H. acaulis var. glabra. Hymenoxys herbacea is a self-incompatible aneuploid with x = 14, genetically and morphologically separable from H. acaulis. The nomenclatural history of this taxon is summarized.
23312756|In North America the genus Primula has several representatives in section Aleuritia Duby and section Armerina Lindley. These sections were originally treated as related subsections in the large section Farinosae Pax. Their members have been the subject of much misinterpretation, particularly in arctic and boreal North America where few collections and no modern systematic treatment existed. North American members of these two sections are reviewed here with particular attention to the arctic and boreal taxa. Section Aleuritia (x = 9) is represented by 4 diploid species: P. alcalina, P. anvilensis, P. mistassinica, and P. specuicola, and 4 polyploid species: P. borealis (4x), P. incana (6x), P. laurentiana (8x), and P. stricta (14x). Section Armerina (x = 11) is represented by a diploid species, P. nutans (formerly P. sibirica), and a tetraploid species, P. egaliksensis.
23312755|Carex albolutescens and C. longii (section Ovales) are considered conspecific by some authors. A survey of herbarium material revealed that they are morphologically distinct and simply represent a misapplication of species names. On the other hand, C. albolutescens is easily confused with a third species, C. festucacea. Diagnostic characters useful in identifying these three species are reviewed and new ones suggested. A species key and descriptions are provided.
23312752|In a common garden experiment, three morphological characters, corolla lobe length, corolla lobe width, and degree of leaf dissection, reliably distinguished the three varieties of Phacelia dubia as well as the closely related P. maculata. The taxonomic merit of P. dubia var. interior was confirmed by this analysis, but prior reports that this taxon is dwarfed in habit were not verified. Significant intravarietal variation among populations occurred in P. dubia var. georgiana and P. maculata, two taxa endemic to granite outcrops in the southeastern United States. The occurrence of P. dubia in South Carolina was documented, but the varietal identity of these populations remains unclear; these plants probably represent an incipient variety.
23312754|The two forms of abiotic pollination, hydrophily and anemophily, exhibit contrasting taxonomic, ecological and phylogenetic patterns. Anemophily is widespread among angiosperms whereas hydrophily occurs in only one dicot and seven monocot families. Ecological limitations of hydrophily likely parallel those of anemophily, yet the processes involved in the former are not well understood. Although hydrophily is in all probability polyphyletic, the phylogenetic relationships among hydrophilous groups are unresolved. Specialization in reproductive structures that accompany hydrophilous pollination makes the recognition of homology difficult, thus phylogenetic hypotheses in groups in which hydrophily occurs are tentative. Hydrophily and anemophily are both geographically widespread, yet the general trend of decreasing incidence of anemophily with decreasing latitude is lacking in the distribution of hydrophily. This contrast may be associated with markedly different geographic patterns of species richness in aquatic versus terrestrial habitats.
23312753|Acicarpha tribuloides Juss. (Calyceraceae) has a natural distribution in southern Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, and northeastern-central Argentina. This species has also been collected in the United States, and Small (1933) reported it as being naturalized in northern Florida. Recent herbarium studies reveal that Acicarpha tribuloides occurred as a ballast plant in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Alabama and Florida. Small's account was based on two specimens collected by Curtiss in 1885; no specimens of Acicarpha tribuloides collected after 1888 are known. Acicarpha tribuloides appears to be a well adapted weed in South America based on its abundance, multiple adaptations for dispersal, and on its ability to invade disturbed habitats and cultivated fields. This species may have failed to become naturalized in the United States due to: (1) climatic and edaphic barriers; (2) inability to compete with native and naturalized species; (3) low reproductive capacity.
23312751|Reproduction in populations of Asclepias quadrifolia and A. syriaca was examined at a western Vermont study site. While both field and forest populations of A. syriaca appeared to be heavily pollinated by Apis spp. and Strymon spp., observed pollinia insertion rates for the locally rare A. quadrifolia were among the lowest reported for the genus. Pollen and resource availability together are shown to closely account for the observed fruit production of <.007 fruits per A. quadrifolia flower. Comparisons of data for A. quadrifolia in Missouri, where the species is common, suggest that reproductive limitations may be an important factor contributing to the scarcity of A. quadrifolia in Vermont.
23312790|A two-year field study (1987 and 1989) of mixed populations of Goodyera repens, G. tesselata, and G. oblongifolia and a study of relevant herbarium material showed that the flowering sequence of these three species is different in Thunder Bay District, Ontario, from what has been reported for several areas in somewhat more southern regions. The sequence in more southern regions is G. tesselata to G. repens to G. oblongifolia. The sequence in this northern area is G. repens to G. tesselata to G. oblongifolia. As G. tesselata arose through hybridization of the other two species, this latter sequence could have important consequences for the reproductive biology of the group.
23312796|The only record of Salix pellita in New York is based on a single sterile herbarium specimen. Visits to the collection locality revealed that the specimen is misidentified, and the taxon remains undocumented in the state flora.
23312791|The vascular plant type collection in MU consists of 439 sheets of mainly North American specimens representing 419 taxa. Many of the sheets are from the non-Ohio holdings of Oberlin College (OC). A brief history of the MU collection and a complete listing of the specimens are given, with annotations correcting mistakes in protologues or monographic accounts involving a few of the specimens.
23312788|Based on previously published biosystematic data, we conclude that variation in the Stellaria longipes group is due to a complex interaction of phenotypic plasticity and genetic variability. Only a single species (S. longipes) is recognized, with two intraspecific taxa, Stellaria longipes subsp. longipes and S. longipes subsp. arenicola, comb. nov.
23312794|Dodecatheon frenchii is reported for Alabama. Its location in the northwest portion of the state represents the most southerly distribution for the species.
23312789|The authorship of Cymophyllus and Cymophyllus fraseri is corrected to Mackenzie ex Britt. Cymophyllus fraseri, hitherto referring to Fraser's sedge, is considered to be a taxonomic synonym of the following new combination: Cymophyllus fraserianus (Ker-Gawler) Kartesz & Gandhi.
23312787|A new, pale form of Pedicularis groenlandica Retz. (elephant's-head lousewort) from Churchill, Manitoba is described as forma chlorina Staniforth, Maycock & Svoboda. Individuals of this form lack the normal reddish anthocyanin pigment found throughout foliage, stems and flowers of the type variety. Six mature plants possessed old infructescences that predated their discovery by three years. These structures, together with the observation of numerous seedlings and presence of developing seeds in capsules, suggested that the colony is well established. Information regarding a new far-northern record of the white flowered form (f. alba Cody) of P. lanata Cham. & Sch. is provided.
23312786|Recent systematic work on the Adiantum pedatum L. complex has demonstrated that the serpentine maidenhair fern in eastern North America, to which the name A. pedatum L. var. aleuticum Rupr. has traditionally been applied, is a disjunct member of the western North American lineage, a lineage divergent at the species level from the typical maidenhairs of the eastern woodlands. Also present in eastern North America is a previously unrecognized tetraploid species, the allopolyploid derivative of a sterile hybrid between the serpentine and the typical maidenhair ferns. Here a description of the new species is provided and a new combination is proposed for the western North American maidenhairs, including the disjunct serpentine populations in eastern North America. Although phenotypic plasticity, the existence of the previously unrecognized allotetraploid, and the presence of backcross hybrids have obscured species boundaries, the three species in North America are morphologically distinct and can be reliably separated using non-technical characters.
23312864|The flora of the Monomoy Islands has been sporadically investigated from 1932 to 1989. Previous plant species lists and herbarium vouchers were reviewed and compared to floral inventories during 1981, 1983, 1984, 1985, and 1989. A master plant list was then developed that noted the abundance and general distribution of each plant species, as well as possible misidentifications from previous studies.
23312861|We describe the relationships between vegetation patterns, depth of sediment accumulation, and distance to shore in Arcadia Bog, a small moat bog in Belchertown, Massachusetts. A Fringe Moat community occurs primarily where sediment depths are 02 m and at 010 m from shore. Shrub Thickets are least restricted in their distribution, occurring at 030 m from shore above 010 m of sediment. The true bog community (Dwarf Tree/Shrub) is divided into two typesTamarack/Spruce centered at 1525 m from shore above 711 m of sediment and Spruce/Tamarack at the deeper, more distant central portion of the basin (2040 m from shore, 1013 m depth). This community is uncommon in central Massachusetts. Variations in surface-water pH suggest that the distributions of at least some species may be influenced by nutrient availability. Additional studies would be required to determine the relationship between physiographic location and water chemistry and flow, the ecological factors most likely controlling vegetation patterns in Arcadia Bog.
23312865|The continued increase of logging roads makes interior Washington County, Maine, more readily accessible to the botanist. Ten species are reported for the first time from Washington County, including eight native species, one introduced species, and one hybrid. Several of these species are considered rare in Maine. Sawtelle Heath in Baileyville (Woodland) is suggested for further study.
23312866|Juncus vaseyi is an addition to the native flora of Vermont. A small population is vulnerable to human activities and natural succession in the Lake Champlain Valley of northwestern Vermont. It is recommended for state endangered species status.
23312863|The forest on a 6 hectare island in Halfway Pond is dominated by Fagus grandifolia, Tsuga canadensis and Pinus strobus. This composition contrasts with the vegetation around the pond, which is predominantly Pinus rigida and Quercus ilicifolia. Most large trees on the island are 150200 years old, with a few 300-year-old Nyssa sylvatica. Growth ring analyses indicate that a hurricane in 1944 was the most significant disturbance event in the last 130150 years. Additional evidence suggests that the present composition and structure of the island forest reflect selective logging of large trees in the 18th and early 19th centuries. Comparisons of the island's flora with fossil pollen spectra from nearby sites (Patterson and Backman, 1988) suggest that the distinctive vegetation on Halfway Pond Island has been maintained for centuries and is not representative of regional pre-settlement forests, which were predominantly white pine and oak. Fire has probably always been less frequent on the island than on the surrounding landscape, a factor that would account for these differences in composition.
23312862|An account with keys, illustrations, and distribution maps of the three species of North American Aconogonon (= Polygonum sect. Aconogonon) is given. Epidermal anatomy of the leaf and pollen morphology are also briefly studied. One new variety, A. phytolaccifolium var. glabrum S.-P. Hong, is described. Two new combinations proposed are A. hultenianum var. lapathifolium (Cham. & Schlechtend.) S.-P. Hong and A. davisiae var. glabrum (Jones) S.-P. Hong. Two species names are relegated to synonymy. A neotype for A. hultenianum var. lapathifolium (Cham. & Schlechtend.) S.-P. Hong, and a lectotype for A. davisiae (Brewer ex A. Gray) Sojk are selected.
23314252|To determine whether Eleocharis tuberculosa var. pubnicoensis should be treated as a variety or as a form, herbarium material from throughout eastern North America and plants in southern Nova Scotian populations were examined. The variety pubnicoensis with smooth achene bristles was found to be confined to Great Pubnico Lake in Yarmouth County, southwestern Nova Scotia. Correlation analysis of population samples from 4 of 5 Nova Scotian lakes suggested that 4 of 5 characters associated with smooth bristles are actually a consequence of immaturity of fruiting spikes, and the remaining character is not significantly correlated. Discriminant analysis using the same characters of the same populations indicated that groupings based on bristle type were less significant and had higher misclassification rates than those based on spike maturity (based on disarticulation) and water depth. Due to a lack of confidence in a genetically based ecological and geographic integrity and a single morphological character, it seems most appropriate to treat pubnicoensis as a form.
23314254|Seed coat morphology is examined in 16 taxa of Gentianopsis, Pterygocalyx, and Gentianella, including representatives from 14 taxa of Gentianopsis, to resolve inconsistencies in previous reports and make new observations using a low vacuum mode of SEM. Four characters are proposed to describe variation in seed coat morphology of this group: (1) the outer periclinal walls of testa; (2) sculpting of inner periclinal walls; (3) seed shape; and (4) seed length. The distinctive papillate seeds of many species of Gentianopsis are the result of inflated outer periclinal walls of testa cells. In some species, the outer periclinal walls of the testa are collapsed inwards, revealing previously unreported sculpting on the inner periclinal walls. Seeds are irregularly angular-ovate or fusiform in Gentianopsis and discoid in Pterygocalyx. Seed length varies from 0.22 to 1.0 mm. These data provide another line of evidence for phylogenetic relationships of Gentianopsis and Pterygocalyx to other members of Swertiinae, and illuminate the affinities of fossil seeds from New England that have been assigned to Gentianopsis.
23314253|Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to determine whether populations of the global rarity Scirpus longii (Long's bulrush) are vulnerable to loss by introgression of genetic material from the weedy S. cyperinus (woolgrass). Shoots from 104 Scirpus plants were obtained from 10 sites in the watershed of the lower Medway River in Nova Scotia, Canada. A putative site of introgression (a seasonally flooded bog) was divided into five subsites: one large stand of vegetative plants and four patches of annually flowering plants clustered at one end of the site. Thirty-five dominant DNA markers were found among individuals from all sites and eight species-specific markers were identified for each of the two species. Nineteen different combinations of species-specific markers were present in the 39 individuals from the site of introgression, and, as expected for introgression, there was strong correlation (r = -0.80, p < 0.0001) between the numbers of the two types of markers. The vegetative and flowering subsites had distinctive hybrid indices: 0.76 and 0.27 of S. longii genome, respectively. The former indicates that S. cyperinus contributed about one-quarter of the genetic material of the plants from the subsite that accounts for more than 99% of the Scirpus at the site of introgression. Hybrid indices also show evidence of introgression in two of the 12 plants obtained at one of the presumed S. longii sites. Our results indicate that gene flow has occurred between S. cyperinus and S. longii at two S. longii populations, hybrid plants are capable of sexual reproduction, and Long's bulrush in Nova Scotia is vulnerable to loss by introgression. Conservation at the landscape level is needed to suppress anthropogenic disturbances that might allow S. cyperinus to threaten the genetic integrity of S. longii.
23314251|Tree species composition of hardwood forests of the northeastern United States corresponds with soil chemistry, and differential performance along soil calcium (Ca) gradients has been proposed as a mechanism for enforcing this fidelity of species to site. We conducted studies in a southern New England forest to test if surface-soil Ca is more important than other factors in determining survival of seedlings of six common canopy tree species. Our hypothesis was that the calcicole species Acer saccharum and Fraxinus americana would show elevated survival rates at higher Ca levels, and that the calcifuge species A. rubrum, Fagus grandifolia, Quercus rubra, and Tsuga canadensis would show lower survival at high Ca. Other factors examined were 1) exchangeable magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), and aluminum (Al); 2) understory light availability; and 3) identity of overstory tree species. In one study, seedlings were transplanted into plots fertilized with Ca or Mg sulfate and survival was measured over 2 years. In the other study, 1-year or 2-year survival of naturally established seedlings in stands dominated by mature trees of one of the six study species was followed. Fertilization with Ca or Mg did not affect survival of planted seedlings, but ambient exchangeable Al was strongly negatively correlated with survival of F. americana. Of the three species with sufficient naturally established seedlings, exchangeable Al plus a proxy for light (overstory tree identity) were the most important determinants of survival. Survival of A. saccharum declined and A. rubrum and F. grandifolia increased at higher levels of exchangeable Al. This pattern is consistent with the positions of these species along the soil gradient. We conclude that soil chemistry effects on seedling survival play a role in establishing the soil relationships characteristic of these species as adults, but that Al is more important than Ca in establishing these effects during the seedling stage.
23314701|Puccinellia rupestris, British alkali grass or stiff saltmarsh grass, is a European halophyte that has only been documented in North America between 1867 and 1880 from coastal zones of New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. We documented Puccinellia rupestris from southern Ohio along an annually salted roadside habitat in 2007. Our collection represents the fourth United States record and the first vouchered report of this taxon from North America in 127 years. The stable population of this exotic grass demonstrates its ability to migrate inland from a coastal environment and become a newly established member the Ohio vascular flora.
23314700|The seaweed flora from James Bay, Canada is compared with three contiguous northeastern Canadian Arctic areas (Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, and the Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area extending northward to the Arctic Ocean). A conspicuous reduction pattern was evident with 131 taxa recorded for the Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area, 106 for Hudson Strait, 81 from Hudson Bay, and 44 in James Bay. The Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area has a more rocky open coastal environment and higher salinities than James Bay, which is more highly sedimented and impacted by hydroelectric development and freshwater discharge. The Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area (3230.5) has a higher mean number of shared taxa (90.0  18.4 SE) than James Bay (37.6  2.7 SE), while Hudson Strait and Hudson Bay have intermediate values of 78  14.1 SE and 64  9.2 SE, respectively. The combined flora from the four areas consists of 164 taxa, including 49 red, 65 brown, 1 chrysophyte, and 49 green algae. Fifty of these total taxa (31%) were only found in one area, with 25 occurring between Ellesmere Island and Baffin Island, 13 within the Strait proper, and 6 in both Hudson and James Bays. Strong habitat and salinity gradients, as well as the great distances between collection sites and the haphazard nature of collections may have contributed to these restrictive patterns. Cheney's (1977) floristic ratio documents that all four geographies (including their composite flora) have cold water floras. Four new distributional records are documented from James Bay: Chaetomorpha minima, Elachista fucicola, Phyllophora pseudoceranoides, and Spyridia filamentosa. The cryptogenic taxon Spyridia, which has unclear origins, is a warm-water disjunct in the northwestern Atlantic previously known only from one site in Nova Scotia and a few locations in southern Maine/New Hampshire but mostly south of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. A single introduced species (Dumontia contorta from Europe) is recorded from James Bay and the Ellesmere-Baffin Islands area, while none are documented from the other areas.
23314699|Andropogon gerardii (Big Bluestem) is a dominant grass of the North American tallgrass prairie. It is also found in remnant populations in the eastern United States, including North and South Carolina, often in association with other species with prairie affinities. We characterized eight A. gerardii population sites across various physiographic regions of North and South Carolina. A total of 362 quadrats (1 m  1 m) were sampled during the 20062008 growing seasons for species occurrence and site and quadrat frequency. Associated species were assigned a commonness index (CI). A Srensen's Community Coefficient was used to determine floristic similarities among the sites. In addition, soil samples in three quadrats were sampled at each site at three depths (010 cm, 1120 cm, and 2130 cm) and analyzed for pH; organic C and N contents; extractable P, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, Mn; and CEC (cation exchange capacity). A total of 306 vascular plant species was identified comprising 64 families, including 99 (32%) graminoids. There were 61 (20%) Poaceae and 63 (20%) Asteraceae. Species per quadrat ranged from 1 to 13 with a mean of 5. Andropogon gerardii had the highest CI value (5900), followed by Rubus spp. (1260). Community Coefficient values were < 0.5 for all pairings between sites, indicating high divergence in species composition among even nearby sites. There were 14 rare or watch-listed species identified, including the federal endangered Helianthus schweinitzii at Troy Prairie. A total of 153 (50%) of the species had been previously described as occurring in prairie-like associations. Soil pH values varied from 4.8 to 6.9 among the sites and depths. Ca and Mg nutrient values were also highly variable. Andropogon gerardii was found at high frequencies across all sites, indicating its broad tolerance for a variety of edaphic conditions.
23314697|Calcareous fens are wetlands fed by calcareous groundwater and with predominantly low (< 1 m) vegetation. They are critical habitat for rare species, and development of tall vegetation alters this habitat. Our purpose was to better understand how human activities influence the fen habitat. In 1997 in eastern New York and northwestern Connecticut we located 25 fens using soil maps and field surveys, and delimited these sites using 73 indicator plants classified a priori as fen species, disturbance species, or non-fen woody species. In three plots in each fen we measured species cover, water table depth, organic matter, total inorganic nitrogen, groundwater pH and conductivity, and described land use on and within 100 m of each fen to identify the conditions that may lead to fen degradation. Total inorganic nitrogen correlated most significantly with plant species composition. Fen-species richness was negatively correlated with nitrogen, whereas non-fen woody species richness and cover were positively correlated with nitrogen, suggesting that nitrogen inputs contribute to dominance of tall vegetation in fens. Richness of disturbance indicator species was negatively correlated with soil organic matter. Thus, fens with mineral soil layers may be more susceptible to dominance by non-fen species. Percent cover of disturbance indicator species was greater in fens near public roads. Cover of Lythrum salicaria, an invasive weed, was positively correlated with land-use intensity and was greater near public roads. The use of soil maps, indicator plant richness and cover, inorganic nitrogen, water table, and soil organic matter may be an efficient method for locating, delimiting, and assessing the ecological status of fens.
23314698|The Adirondack Mountains of New York State hold some of the southernmost communities of alpine vegetation in the eastern United States. Containing the greatest concentration of rare and endangered species in New York State, this 12,000-year-old ecosystem is important to understanding the ecological history of northeastern North America. In order to monitor floristic and vegetational shifts over time, 11 permanent transects were established in 1984 on four summits (Wright, Algonquin, Boundary, and Iroquois) of the MacIntyre Range in the Adirondack High Peaks region. Using the point-intercept method, all 11 transects were sampled in 1984, 1994, 2002, and 2007. Vegetation composition changed significantly over the 23-year period, with an overall decrease in bryophytes/lichens and an increase in vascular plants, indicating that vascular plants were replacing bryophytes, particularly in areas not disturbed by hikers. Community similarity was high among all transects, and increased with time for vascular plants as they became more abundant, indicating a successional convergence. Compositional shifts may also reflect effects of global warming and atmospheric deposition on alpine plant communities.
23314680|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the taxa of Magnoliidae and Hamamelidae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. Of the 227 taxa treated (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms), all are mapped based primarily on specimens in major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with most data derived from the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in standard manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23314678|A new species, Dicerandra fumella, is described for the Florida panhandle and adjacent Alabama and compared with other taxa in the D. linearifolia complex. An extensive hybrid zone between this new species and D. linearifolia var. robustior is located in the Marianna Lowland, west of the Apalachicola River in Florida. Dicerandra linearifolia, given the superfluous name "Ceranthera linearifolia" by Stephen Elliott nearly 200 years ago and the type for his Ceranthera, can no longer be considered pandemic to the southeastern coastal plain of the United States.
23314679|Stylisma pickeringii var. pattersonii (Convolvulaceae) is endangered in Illinois and Iowa, and occurs in scattered populations in other states. During 1999 and 2000, two insect species previously unreported from Illinois were observed visiting its flowers. This study was undertaken to survey additional insect visitors, as well as to characterize the plant community where S. pickeringii occurs. The objectives were to survey: 1) floral traits (anthesis and flower density) of S. pickeringii, 2) associated plant species, and 3) insect visitor characteristics. Floral traits were determined and associated plant species surveyed in Mason County (degraded hay field on private property) and Henderson County (dry sand prairie at the Big River State Forest), Illinois. Insects visiting flowers were collected at 10:00 a.m., 12:30 p.m., and 3:00 p.m. during June, July, and August in 2001 and 2002. Individual flowers lasted one day and remained open for 68 hours. Peak flowering occurred from early to the middle of July when S. pickeringii was the dominant species in flower. Henderson County contained a greater diversity of native plant species with less bare ground and fewer non-native species than the Mason County site. Forty-seven insect species were observed visiting S. pickeringii flowers. Most frequent visitors were Apis mellifera (Hymenoptera: Apidae), Bombylius fraudulentus (Diptera: Bombyliidae), and Heterostylum croceum (Diptera: Bombliidae). The diversity of visiting insects was higher earlier than later in the day, in July and August than June, and in Henderson than Mason County.
23314670|We performed a comparative study of the vascular flora of a serpentine outcrop, Pine Hill, and that of a granite outcrop, Settlement Quarry, from Little Deer Isle and Deer Isle, respectively, Hancock County, Maine. We established four transects along a gradient from exposed to forested areas within each outcrop. Plants were recorded for presence and percent cover from circular plots along each transect. Soil and tissue samples were collected to examine soil-tissue elemental relations. One hundred thirty-two taxa were recorded from serpentine and 89 from granite. Fifty-seven taxa were shared by both sites. Species richness ( diversity) and diversity indices (Shannon-Weaver and Simpson) suggested significant differences between sites and within sites. Principle Component Analysis suggested substrates differed significantly between sites and between exposures within sites. Tissue analyses suggested intraspecific variation with respect to tissue elemental concentrations, especially in Achillea millefolium, Oenothera biennis, Prunus virginiana, Selaginella rupestris, Spiraea alba var. latifolia, and Vaccinium angustifolium. Serpentine populations of many taxa showed low tissue Ca:Mg ratios (< 1) and high Ni concentrations. Two-way ANOVA showed significant substrate  species effects for several elements, including those that typically characterize serpentine substrates (Ca, Mg, Cr, Ni), suggesting significant genetic variation within species with respect to substrate. Finally, we compared our species list for Pine Hill with a plant survey done at Pine Hill and five additional serpentine sites of Maine in 1977 and provide a list of 285 vascular plant taxa from 62 families for serpentine in Maine.
23314671|The Allegheny River Islands Wilderness (ARIW) consists of seven islands located along 90 km of the Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River in northwestern Pennsylvania. I surveyed riparian plant communities in the ARIW to provide an inventory of the species composition and distribution of the alien flora and to identify species of potential management concern. Forty alien plant species (17.8% of the total surveyed flora) were tallied from 42 survey sites across the seven islands of the ARIW. The largely herbaceous floodplain scour community supported the greatest number of alien plant species (35 species; 18.9% of the community flora), followed by the Acer saccharinumPlatanus occidentalis floodplain forest community (23 species; 16.8% of the community flora) and the P. occidentalisCarya cordiformisUlmus rubra floodplain forest community (14 species; 12.4% of the community flora). Ten alien plant species (24.4% of the alien flora) occurred across all three community types. The alien flora of the ARIW included a range of species with varied ecological impact potential, distribution across plant communities, and difficulty of control. Potential control strategies for alien plant species in the ARIW must address the influence of an altered hydrologic regimen as well as control protocols for specific species on the islands and surrounding river corridor.
23314672|The vascular flora of Timber Island, the largest undeveloped island in Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, was surveyed, and a vegetation analysis conducted. The island was found to have 187 vascular plant species, none of which are listed as rare or endangered for the state. The combination of tree species found throughout Timber Island indicates a forest type characteristic of the Central New Hampshire region. In the vegetation analysis, abundance and frequency data were recorded from 106 study plots and analyzed using a two-way indicator species analysis program (TWINSPAN). Six cover types (CT) were defined: Pinus strobusGaylussacia baccata CT, Fagus grandifoliaOstrya virginiana CT, Pinus resinosaGaylussacia baccataVaccinium angustifolium CT, Tsuga canadensis CT, Acer rubrumDulichium arundinaceum CT, and Ruderal CT. Two additional cover types were recognized through qualitative field observation alone: Shoreline CT, and Vernal Woodland Pool CT. While not included in the floristic analysis, twenty-four bryophyte species were documented on the island, 15 of which are new records for Belknap County. A modified Line Intercept Analysis, employed to quantify ground cover, showed that herbaceous plant and bryophyte cover was sparse (7% each), with duff and leaf litter covering 74%, exposed rock outcrop 8%, vernal pools 3%, and 1% disturbed or bare soil. Soil analysis revealed a weak correlation with cover type. Two indices of similarity, Srensen's Index and the Simple Matching Index, were utilized to compare the vascular plant flora of Timber Island to three other island floras in Lake Winnipesaukee: Rattlesnake Island, Bear Island, and Three Mile Island. Srensen's Index showed a 50.0% similarity with Bear Island, 51.1% with Rattlesnake Island, and 52.7% with Three Mile Island. The Simple Matching Index showed higher levels of similarity: Bear Island, 51.66%; Rattlesnake Island 59.51%; and Three Mile Island 65.59%.
23312479|First Minnesota records or confirmation of older records for the following angiosperms are reported: Ruellia humilis, Asclepias hirtella, Asclepias stenophylla, Aster pilosus, Shinnersoseris rostrata, Solidago bernardii, Draba norvegica, Butomus umbellatus, Polanisia jamesii, Paronychia fastigiata, Commelina erecta, Sedum integrifolium, Eleocharis rostellata, Myriophyllum spicatum, Hamamelis virginiana, Scutellaria parvula, Utricularia resupinata, Allium cernuum, Sphaeralcea coccinea, Coralorrhiza odontorhiza, Poa paludigena, Spartina gracilis, Dodecatheon media, Lysimachia quadrifolia, Saxifraga cernua, and Viola nuttallii. Phytogeographical and historical information supplementing these reports is also given. Specimens upon which the reports are based are cited.
23312480|Twenty-six species and subspecific taxa within the pennate diatom genera Cymbellonitzschia Hust., Hantzschia Grun., and Nitzschia Hass. are described from the Highland Lake District of northeastern Wisconsin. Line drawings, occasional morphological comments, and general information on their distribution within the lake district are also provided.
23312477|The genus Brassica, a native of Eurasia, has long been considered to have been introduced to the New World by European settlers around 400 B.P. (years before present). Recent examinations of charred seeds from buried fire hearths at three archaeological sites in central Maine reveal that Brassica kaber (DC.) Wheeler (charlock) occurred in the region as early as 8000 B.P., and was abundant and widespread by 2000 B.P. These findings are consistent with those from several other archaeological excavations in the northeastern United States.
23312481|Currently, Kentucky's two native Trifolium species, T. stoloniferum and T. reflexum, are each known from only one locality. Historical records indicate that T. stoloniferum was widespread on moist, fertile soils in the Bluegrass Region, and that T. reflexum occurred on drier or less fertile soils in the fomer Big Barrens Region and the Shawnee Hills. Many old records are from areas with open woodland or grassland disturbed by Indians and buffalo (Bison), and recent records are mostly from roadsides or trails through woods. The decline of these species may be attributed to changes in disturbance and consumer patterns since settlement. In cultivation, T. stoloniferum is a vigorous perennial, easily propagated from stolons, but it requires moist, fertile soil, and is sensitive to competition and herbivory. Trifolium reflexum grows more slowly and is typically biennial. The chromosome number of T. soloniferum, reported here for the first time, is the same as other eastern North American species (2n = 16).
23312478|The validity of the taxon Scenedesmus smithii Teil. and others is questioned. A strain of S. denticulatus Lagerh. was grown in cultures and variability observed. Forms were identified in these cultures which could be identified with published taxa: S. smithii Teil., S. denticulatus var. fenestrata (Teil.) Uherkov., S. denticulatus Lagerh. f. crassispinosus Hortob & Nmeth, and S. arcuatus f. spinosus Hortob. & Nmeth. Scenedesmus denticulatus plants from the Fox and Rock Rivers of Illinois are illustrated.
23312482|Southwestern New Brunswick, including the Passamaquoddy Bay area, is located in one of the richest marine environments in North America. A concentrated algal survey of this area comprising 50 littoral and sublittoral sites was undertaken in July 1986. Habitats investigated included estuaries, saltmarshes, saline lakes, sheltered and wave-exposed rocky shores, sublittoral bedrock, sediment and animal substrata. A species-poor flora was recorded, comprising 171 algae (45 Chlorophyceae, 58 Phaeophyceae and 68 Rhodophyceae) out of 352 species known for eastern Canada. Five species new to eastern Canada were detected: (Callocolax neglectus, Hildenbrandia crouanii, Phyllophora crispa, Sphacelaria caespitula and Chaetomorpha capillaris). The Halicystis ovalis gametophyte phase of Derbesia marina was also recorded for the first time. The paucity of algal species in the Passamaquoddy region was probably due to regional conditions (low sea temperatures: 8C offshore, 11C inshore) and/or local conditions (littoral blanketing by Ascophyllum nodosum, sublittoral grazing by Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis).
23312408|Type specimens are designated for J. Lunell's names in Adicea Rafinesque, A. fontana, A. opaca, A. deamii and A. nieuwlandii, all but one of which were based on multiple specimens. Adicea deamii and A. nieuwlandii are now considered synonyms of Pilea pumila (L.) A. Gray. Adicea opaca is considered synonymous with A. fontana under the name Pilea fontana (Lunell) Rydberg.
23312411|A new species, Spiranthes nebulorum Catling & Catling, is described. It occurs in southern Mexico and Guatemala on open, grassy or rocky slopes and in bogs at elevations of 20003150 m. Comparisons with related species are provided along with a distribution map and a key to Spiranthes sensu stricto in southern Mexico and Guatemala.
23312412|Carex hypsipedos C. B. Clarke (Cyperaceae) is reported for the first time in Argentina and Bolivia, where it grows in alpine meadows. Carex phalaroides Kunth var. parvula Rud. Gross, which was described from northwestern Argentina, is here considered to be conspecific with C. hypsipedos.
23312409|Diploid chromosome counts (2n = 26) are reported for the first time in Acer heldreichii and A. trautvetteri (section Acer) and in A. hyrcanum, A. opalus, A. pentapomicum, and A. syriacum (section Goniocarpa). Acer velutinum (section Acer) was a newly discovered tetraploid (2n = 52). The diploid numbers of A. caesium (section Acer) and A. monspessulanum (sectionGoniocarpa) and the tetraploid number of A. pseudoplatanus (section Acer) were confirmed. Chromosome counts may now be used to verify suspected hybrids between diploid and tetraploid taxa.
23312410|Chromosome numbers were determined from somatic material for 153 individuals representing 16 taxa from western North America. First counts (2n = 56, 70) are reported for Antennaria stolonifera Porsild. The remaining counts (2n = 28, 42, 50, 60, 70, 112, ca. 120, ca. 130, and ca. 140) support previous reports and are presented without comment.
23312413|Solidago latissimifolia Miller, herein lectotypified, is an older name for the plants currently known as S. elliottii Torrey & Gray and S. elliptica Aiton. Nomenclatural histories of the species are analyzed, and leaf characters of several similar goldenrod species are compared. Lectotypification of S. latifolia Linnaeus and the current custom of tracing European Solidago cultivars to American indigenous ancestry are discussed. Solidago aestivalis Bicknell replaces S. rugosa var. sphagnophila Graves. Endangerment prospects of S. latissimifolia are presented.
23312414|Hydrolea, a genus of purple- and white-flowered semi-aquatic herbs and shrubs, was last revised in 1913. After examination of available herbarium specimens, SEM of seed coat morphology, and fieldwork in Mexico, Venezuela and Ecuador, a monograph of Hydrolea is presented. In this treatment, two sections for the genus are maintained. Eleven species are recognized, with one species having three varieties.
23312407|Previously undescribed variation in the floral morphology of Podostemum ceratophyllum Michx. is reported. The numbers of tepals and anthers per flower are shown to differ widely among five selected populations in the northeastern United States. Per flower variation in tepal number ranges from one to seven, and of anthers from two (typical) to seven. Genetic rather than environmental factors are postulated to be responsible for this variation. Vegetative reproduction and the autogamous breeding system may be important factors in maintaining floral polymorphism.
23312435|Triglochin maritimum L. is a circumboreal aggregate species complex comprised of a number of different cytotypes. Numerical analyses of morphological variation in plants from eastern and central North America and Europe indicate that two species, T. maritimum and T. gaspense Lieth & Lve, can be recognized. Triglochin maritimum is a polymorphic species, of wide distribution that is characterized by densely flowered racemes, erect leaves that are shorter than the scape, and by its long stigmatic papillae. Triglochin gaspense, restricted to coastal marshes of the Maritime Provinces and the State of Maine, is distinguished by its lax racemes, arcuate leaves that are longer than the scape and its short stigmatic papillae. Differences in habitat preference lend further support to this classification.
23312431|The origin, subsequent migratory history and present-day distribution of Euphrasia stricta J. P. Wolff ex J. F. Lehm. is presented along with its taxonomic description. Introduced into eastern Maine during the 18th or 19th centuries, its range has expanded westward to southcentral Ontario and northward to the Gasp Peninsula of Qubec. In North America, the species is readily characterized by its erect, cuneate, narrowly ovate to ovate-lanceolate glabrous leaves and bracts possessing long aristate teeth.
23312434|Seven varieties of Senecio streptanthifolius Greene are recognized based on morphological characters, flavonoids and chromosome numbers. Four new combinations are made and two new varieties described. The results of a cluster analysis incorporating morphological and flavonoid characters are compared with those from one using only morphological characters. The addition of flavonoid characters permits a better definition of taxa in most cases.
23312430|Pilea howardiana is described and illustrated from Parc National Pic Macaya in the Massif de la Hotte of Haiti. The species is compared to its presumed closest relative, P. formonensis, from which it differs primarily in its smaller size and herbaceous (vs. suffrutescent) habit, gray-green (vs. tan) older stems, shoots that are more densely pubescent, leaves with flat to slightly adaxially impressed (vs. strongly impressed) veins, and stipules lacking a prolonged chartaceous apex. Both species are known only from the Morne Formon region, an area of exceptional endemism.
23312432|Sympatric populations of Chimaphila maculata and C. umbellata exhibit sequential flowering at a study site in Massachusetts. Each shows a positively skewed flowering curve typical of species with a synchronous onset of flowering. Although Bombus bimaculatus, B. perplexus, and B. vagans visit both species of Chimaphila, differences in pollinator preference may prevent interspecific pollen transfer during a short overlap in flowering time. These differences in phenology and pollinators are sufficient to prevent interbreeding, as experimental hybridizations show that the two species are fully interfertile.
23312433|Evaluation of systematic relationships in Arnica subgenus Arnica show that the complex consists of seven species. No new taxa have been proposed; however, names of several previously recognized taxa are treated as synonyms. Arnica augustifolia, A. frigida, and A. lonchophylla, each consisting of two subspecies, are extremely polymorphic and variable in chromosome number. Arnica louiseana, A. rydbergii, A. fulgens and A. sororia are morphologically distinct. A taxonomic revision of the subgenus includes descriptions, keys, synonymies, distribution maps, and a discussion of phylogenetic relationships.
23312398|Potamogeton lateralis is believed to be one of the rarer pondweeds of North America. Evidence is provided indicating that P. lateralis is in fact described from two disparate elements, P. vaseyi and P. pusillus. The morphological characters of P. lateralis fit well within the range of these two species.
23312400|Ranunculus spitzbergensis (Nath.) Hada, the hybrid between R. lapponicus L. and R. pallasii Schlecht., is reported for the first time from North America. Four sites in Quebec and one in central District of Keewatin are recorded. Habitats are described, and the characters by which the hybrid may be discerned from the parents are presented. Synonymy is given and the two parents are placed in the same subgenus, Coptidium.
23312399|Four hundred fifty specific and subspecific taxa of vascular plants are known from the Gateway National Recreation Area. These taxa are included in 80 families. The largest families are the Compositae (66 species) and Gramineae (66 species). One hundred sixty-two plants (36 percent) are exotics. Families with large numbers of exotic species are the Cruciferae (71 percent), Leguminosae (64 percent), and Caryophyllaceae (62.5 percent).
23312397|Papaver californicum, the only annual species of the genus Papaver native to North America is described and mapped. Because of the annual habit, color of filaments and valvate capsules it is placed in a section of its own, sect. Californicum Kadereit, which is described here. The species is suggested to have differentiated from the same stock as the perennial arctic-alpine sect. Meconella.
23312401|Vernonia Schreber subsect. Chamaedrys Cabrera consists of sixteen species of woody or suffrutescent perennials from southern South America. The inflorescence is either corymbose-paniculate or thrysoid-paniculate with numerous small- to medium-sized heads containing 430 florets. The delimitation of various infrageneric groups in Vernonia, as a result of a taxonomic study of Vernonia subsect. Chamaedrys, is presented. Species excluded from subsect. Chamaedrys are transferred to other subgeneric groups. Chemosystematic, palynological and cytological data utilized in the development of a taxonomic revision of Vernonia Schreber subsection Vernonia Cabrera are presented along with the results of hybridization experiments. A key to the series, subseries and species of Vernonia subsect. Chamaedrys is given along with descriptions, geographic distributions and ecological information.
23312396|A population of Panax quinquefolium was decimated by ginseng diggers in 1979, although most components of the climax forest community remained unaltered. After five years, 79% of the population size had been restored of which 25% were flowering plants; from these, 47 fruits matured. By 1985, 39% of the population consisted of flowering plants. The most logical assumption is that a majority of the new population originated from an in situ seed bank holding sufficient viable seeds to re-establish a large portion of the population until plants of the "new population" had become reproductive. Seeds of this herbaceous perennial apparently remained dormant and viable in the soil for at least five years, thus providing an adaptive mechanism for population restoration following major disruption and perhaps also adverse seasonal environmental conditions.
23312709|Spiranthes from isolated wetlands in Santa Cruz and adjacent Cochise Counties, Arizona, which in the past have been cited as S. graminea Lindl., differ from that species in several floral and vegetative characters and in chromosome number; they are readily separated from it by their few-septate trichomes. The more northern S. diluvialis Sheviak is larger-flowered with more ringent flowers and different flower and sepal orientation. The morphological and cytological features of the Arizona plants indicate that they represent a distinct species, described here as S. delitescens Sheviak. The cytology of this species suggests an origin through hybridization and amphiploidy, but the parental species are not identified.
23312711|Observations of mature Norway spruce, Picea abies (L.) Karst., that developed numerous bisporangiate strobili with proliferation were documented over a period of nine years. Most abnormal strobili had male characteristics at the proximal ends, female characteristics above, and vegetative proliferation at the distal ends. The degree of male, female, and vegetative characteristics varied among the hundreds of bisporangiate strobili observed, and there were many transitional stages. They appeared on one tree during eight spring-flushing seasons, on another during two seasons, and on five trees in the season following two environmental stresses: an insect infestation and a dry period which occurred when primordia were differentiating on developing embryonic shoots within buds.
23312710|Origin of the present vegetation of Berkshire County, Massachusetts, is discussed, with emphasis on glaciation, refugia of floristic elements during glaciation, migration patterns of taxa, and the effect these factors may have had on the present composition of the flora. The vegetation can be divided into five affinity groups: Eastern Deciduous Forest Region including a Southern and Midwestern sub-group, Alleghanian (Glaciated northeast and Appalachian Mountains), Boreal, Coastal Plain and Alien. Many taxa in the county are at or near their northern, southern, or eastern range limits. Selected state-listed rare taxa and common species are used to illustrate possible patterns of migration and limitations of distribution.
23312712|Chromosome numbers were determined from somatic material for 371 individuals representing 25 species of Antennaria from western and arctic North America. Most of the chromosome counts presented confirm previous reports for the respective taxa. Chromosome numbers are reported for specimens of A. breitungii (2n = 56), A. ellyae (2n = 28), A. incarnata (2n = 56) and A. pedunculata (2n = 56) collected from their respective type localities. Chromosome numbers are also reported for A. pulcherrima (2n = 56) and A. rosea (2n = 70) collected from their most northwestern stations in North America.
23312713|Recent collections from Newfoundland have added the following vascular plant species to the native flora of the Island: Brasenia schreberi, Carex tonsa, Dactylorhiza, Isoetes acadiensis, Lysimachia thyrsiflora, Myriophyllum farwellii, Potamogeton foliosus var. foliosus, Prenanthes racemosa, Sagittaria latifolia, Viola lanceolata, and V.  sublanceolata. Other novelties, including Aster ciliolatus, Carex arcta, Eleocharis kamtschatica, Goodyera oblongifolia, Juncus subcaudatus, and Ranunculus lapponicus are based on revisions of herbarium material. Significant changes to the known distribution of Potamogeton spirillus and Utricularia purpurea are also discussed. Additions based on published literature reports are also compiled for Acorus americanus, Atriplex franktonii, A. praecox, A. subspicata, Carex cumulata, C. saxilittoralis, Euphrasia salisburgensis, Juncus ambiguus, Listera  veltmanii, Potentilla bipinnatifida, Potamogeton strictifolius, Puccinellia ambigua and Sagina nodosa ssp. nodosa.
23313115|Two additions to the native state flora were encountered in the Adirondack Mountains of northeastern New York: Gnaphalium sylvaticum and Empetrum eamesii spp. atropurpureum. Both taxa are recommended for state endangered species status.
23313114|A Dream of the Woods is a poem thought to be attributable to Merritt Lyndon Fernald. This poem was recently discovered in the University of Maine Archives. A bibliographic search, queries to students of Fernald, and writing samples were employed to verify the poem's authenticity. A possible scenario of why the poem might have been written and why it went undiscovered is offered.
23313116|Observations on the longevity of Goodyera pubescens evergreen leaves are reported, as are continuing observations of the ecology of Triphora trianthophora.
23313118|The vascular flora of the wetland and graminoid plant communities at Gavin Bog and Prairie Nature Preserve in Lake County, Illinois, is described. A total of 246 vascular plant species and three hybrids was found in four broad community classes: bog, marsh, sedge meadow, and prairie. Three bog communities, low-shrub zone, tall-shrub zone, and forested-bog zone, were recognized. The prairie primarily includes wet prairie and mesic prairie. Fifteen threatened or endangered plant species for Illinois were recorded from the nature preserve including two, Carex brunnescens and Vaccinium oxycoccos, not accurately reported from Illinois before this study. Gavin Bog is an oligotrophic acid peatland in an advanced developmental stage. Although the two major plant families characteristic of acid peatlands in the Great Lakes region, Cyperaceae and Ericaceae, are also the best-represented families at Gavin Bog, little compositional similarity exists between Gavin Bog and marsh and other bog/marsh communities in Lake County, Illinois. A total of 5.7% of the vascular flora at Gavin Bog and Prairie Nature Preserve is alien to North America. One exotic species, glossy buckthorn (Rhamnus frangula), currently dominates the tall-shrub zone in the bog, occurs throughout the forested zone, and is threatening the low-shrub zone. The presence of this species has probably resulted in ecological shifts favoring shade-tolerant species throughout the bog. Ecological consequences of various management options are considered.
23313117|Aster anticostensis is endemic to the Baie des Chaleurs (Gasp), Anticosti Island, and the Saint John and Aroostook River basins (QuebecNew BrunswickMaine). It was long confused with A. novi-belgii. It is found in the geolittoral zone along fast-flowing rivers. Eight sites are known, five of which were rediscovered in 1988. The species is rare throughout its range, but it has a more precarious status (endangered) in New Brunswick and Maine, where the taxon is reported here for the first time. Disturbances of the river banks as a result of human activity and regulation of water flow due to dam construction are the main factors threatening survival of this plant.
23313119|The floras and vegetation of marshes in three large Connecticut River oxbows of differing ages in western Massachusetts were studied and compared in 1974 and again in 1984. Marshes at Hatfield in the most recently formed of the three oxbows occur in zones that parallel much of the old river bank. Marshes in Ned's Ditch, Northampton, an oxbow segment that was cut off from the river around 710 yr. B.P., occur within nine scattered ponds surrounded by swamp forest. Marshes at Whately in the oldest oxbow are confined to the vicinity of a single pond. In all three oxbows, a high marsh is dominated by Onoclea sensibilis and a low marsh by Lemna minor and Nuphar variegatum. Zones of emergent mid marsh vegetation are distinctive at each oxbow. Marshes at the two younger, regularly flooded oxbows share numerous species with the herb strata of adjacent swamp forests and remained relatively unchanged throughout the study period except for an increase in woody seedlings at the Hatfield high marsh. The Whately marshes share few species with adjacent forest; species richness in high and emergent zones of the Whately marshes declined sharply over the decade.
23313120|In 1989, Oxalis violacea and Verbena simplex were rediscovered at Mt. Tom, Holyoke, Hampden Co., Massachusetts, where they were last recorded in 1880. Oxalis violacea is listed as Threatened and Verbena simplex as Endangered by the state of Massachusetts.
23312564|Thomas F. Lucy's original herbarium of "The Upper Susquehanna Flora," fully mounted and labeled for the Elmira Academy of Sciences in the 1890's, has been found at Elmira College. Although Index Herbariorum indicates that BUF contains the largest deposit of the collections of T. F. Lucy, these specimens are Lucy's unmounted duplicates. T. F. Lucy did not die in Elmira, as earlier reported, but had moved to Buffalo and died there in 1906. Based on Lucy's collection, a working herbarium has been established in Carnegie Science Hall at Elmira College. Current research is focusing on updating Lucy's obsolete nomenclature, mapping and localities and collection sites, and identifying the duplicate specimens from BUF.
23312568|Analysis of the plants in the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve shows that large numbers of them are on one or more of the rare plant lists. Twenty-seven families and 106 species known from in or near the Preserve are either endangered, threatened and/or commercially exploited. Species endangered in some way constitute 22.2% of those known from the Preserve. This large number of endangered plants within the Preserve heavily reflects the abundant tropical epiphytic element within the temperate plant communities. Comparisons are made with other southern Florida areas to show the uniqueness of the Preserve flora.
23312567|The effects of prescribed burning experiments on two rare coastal heathland species are described. Fire killed adult Corema conradii Torr., but resulted in abundant seedling regeneration. Ants may be important vectors in the dispersal of Corema fruits. Following a spring burn, both cover and flowering of Helianthemum dumosum (Bickn.) Fern. increased. Seedlings of this species also were more common, especially where cover of Cladonia lichens was reduced. Occasional fire may be necessary to maintain healthy, reproductive populations of these species.
23312565|Schiedeella schlechteriana Szlachetko & Sheviak is described as new. It is distinguished by a lip with narrowly rhombic hypochile and abruptly expanded epichile, dendritically proliferated nerves, and apically-directed auricles. It is compared with related species, one of which, S. valerioi (Ames & Schweinf.) Szlachetko & Sheviak, is formally transferred from Spiranthes.
23312566|A disjunctive range extension of the rare Aster depauperatus (Porter) Fern. is reported for the first time from several diabase glades in north central North Carolina. The species was previously known only from serpentine soils and the North Carolina populations hence represent an extension in both range and habitat.
23312666|Anthers and corollas from fresh flowers of 27 taxa of Solanaceae were separately stored in jars and then smelled. The anthers nearly always produced scents, but the corollas often did not, and when present, the corolla scents were different from those of the anthers. We hypothesize that the anther scents are related to bee pollination and are a basal, conservative feature of the Solanaceae, while the corolla scents represent specializations to attract other pollinators.
23312670|Distribution data are updated for 14 Poaceae taxa considered rare in Vermont 20 years ago. Two of the natives studied, Glyceria acutiflora and Sporobolus asper, are still rare, have lost historical populations, and face potential human alteration of their habitats. They are recommended for Endangered species status in Vermont. Six native species have expanded their range north. Seven native species are now weedy in disturbed habitats. Railroads and roadsides provide habitat and a means of dispersal for the weedy species. Aristida basiramea and Diplachne acuminata are novelties in the Vermont flora.
23312668|We sampled Sanguinaria canadensis L. (bloodroot) rhizomes from 100 eastern U.S. populations to assess variation in the alkaloid sanguinarine. Sanguinarine content varied from 0.6% to 6.3% of rhizome dry weight (mean 2.7%). This variation correlates with latitude, longitude, slope, clay content, litter depth, rhizome size, and fruit size. A regression with latitude, pH, and percent humic matter accounted for 58% of the alkaloid variation among populations. Alkaloid concentrations also vary seasonally. Highest alkaloid levels occurred during flowering and fruiting stages.
23312665|A rare color-form of Cypripedium montanum Dougl. ex Lindl., characterized by clear green sepals and petals and unmarked lip and staminode, is described as forma praetertinctum Sheviak.
23312671|Floristic studies of Seashore State Park, A National Landmark and region of floristic interest for more than a century, are reviewed. The present flora consists of 558 species in 306 genera in 107 families, including several Alleghenian species which reach their southern limit in the park. Changes in habitat have resulted in the loss of numerous species.
23312669|Principal component and cluster analyses, in addition to individual achene micromorphological characters, divide the Carex nigromarginata complex into two groups: achenes of C. nigromarginata, C. floridana and C. peckii have cell central bodies with concave sides while the remaining three taxa have cell central bodies with convex sides. This evidence supports the reduction of C. artitecta and C. physorhyncha to varieties of C. emmonsii (as C. emmonsii var. muhlenbergii, C. emmonsii var. australis and C. emmonsii var. emmonsii, respectively). The six taxa can only be distinguished by significant differences between the achene characters; achene micromorphological data are most useful in dividing the complex into sets of taxa.
23313731|The herbaceous vegetation was studied at one-, three-, and twelve-year intervals following clearing of a pine plantation at the Sand Prairie-Scrub Oak Nature Preserve, Mason County, Illinois. The annual species Setaria faberi (giant foxtail), Bidens bipinnata (Spanish needles), and Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass) dominated the first year. The native perennial grass Dichanthelium villosissimum (hairy panic grass) along with the exotic species Mollugo verticillata (carpetweed) were prominent the third year while Diodia teres (buttonweed) and Eragrostis trichodes (sand love grass) dominated the 12th year. Many native species commonly associated with dry sand prairies were present by the 12th year, but some exotic and native weedy species were still present.
23313734|Species of the alga Vaucheria occur throughout the world growing in and on the surface of marine, brackish, and freshwater sediments. This resilient genus has the ability to survive extreme environmental stresses by depositing hardy, dormant "seed banks" of propagules, mostly commonly oospheres, into the sediments. The present study investigates the effect of extended periods of anoxia on the survival of Vaucheria propagules. Sediment samples from a flooded riparian zone in Ashford, Connecticut, a habitat where multiple species of Vaucheria have been known to grow, were placed in anoxic Bio-Bag chambers for 15 months. Our results demonstrate that three species, V. aversa, V. uncinata, and V. undulata, are able to survive at least five months of anoxia, with V. aversa and V. uncinata surviving one year lacking O 2 .
23313730|Western New York has experienced extensive agricultural land abandonment since the early 1900s. The objectives of this study were to (1) sample plots representing a chronosequence to describe the stages of old-field succession and (2) follow these plots for six years to track year-to-year variation in species composition. Dominant species in the early stages (30 years following abandonment) of succession were Solidago spp. (41% cover) and Rhamnus cathartica (20%). By mid-succession (50 years following abandonment), Rhamnus cathartica (39%) and Fraxinus americana (39%) became more important. Dominant late successional (70 years following abandonment) species included Fagus grandifolia (34%), Ostrya virginiana (24%), and Prunus serotina (15%). Every iteration of sampling included unique species, indicating that new species were continually entering the site, but were not successfully establishing. This pattern mirrors the initial floristic composition model of oldfield succession. However, after several years of canopy closure, the stands appeared to enter an understory-reinitiation stage, which allowed new species to establish and form a mature forest of species that were absent from the early and mid-succession area.
23313729|Champlain beachgrass (Ammophila champlainensis) was described by Seymour in 1966 as endemic to the shores of Lake Champlain in Vermont and New York. Some later authors have recognized it while others have not, or they have treated it at a different rank. In order to resolve the issue of the recognition and appropriate rank, nine characters, including those suggested by previous authors as important to distinguish this taxon, were measured in 457 specimens from throughout the northeastern North American range of Ammophila. A reduced data set of 281 specimens and seven characters was studied using: (1) analysis of variance to determine optimal characters for differentiating geographical groups; (2) scatter plot analysis of optimal characters; (3) principal component analysis to investigate the major trends in pattern of variation without character weighting; (4) discriminant analysis to determine the extent of differentiation using a weighted formula; and (5) linear regression to reveal trends in variation related to size of associated water bodies. The analyses failed to clearly separate the plants from Lake Champlain from other Ammophila populations. However, the Lake Champlain plants were the most discrete of nine natural geographic groups, followed by plants from Lac Saint-Jean, and then plants from the Atlantic coast. None of the geographic groups was sufficiently different to justify recognition of distinct taxa due to the extensive overlap in measurements of characters. Populations adjacent to smaller water bodies, where dunes tend to be smaller and less active, tend to have smaller plants with smaller parts. Plants from Lake Champlain, including those described and identified as A. champlainensis, and all other northeastern populations of Ammophila, are best treated as the single species A. breviligulata.
23313732|Sayres Pond in Champaign County, Ohio, is a characteristic prairie fen remnant. The site harbors an assemblage of wetland plants that are indicative of their fen habitat and at the same time uncommon in west-central Ohio. Although not as species-rich as some larger remnant fens in the region, floristic diversity at Sayres Pond is quite high considering its small area (approximately 1.6 ha surveyed). A total of 102 species in 40 families and 80 genera were documented from Sayres Pond during this study. The flora has a distinct northern component but shows affinities to wet prairies and marshes of the Midwest and Southeast. Six state-listed rare plant species have been reported from the site since 1970, although only three were observed during this study. Comparison to a previous study indicates that over a 27-year period woody species encroached considerably into the fen meadow. Sixty-five of the 120 species (54%) previously reported from the site were not found during this study. The reasons for this loss are not fully understood, but the transition from open meadow vegetation to closed-canopy shrub carr has likely been a major factor in species loss at Sayres Pond.
23313733|During studies of the Campanulaceae for the Flora of Veracruz (Mexico), we found three new records for the state. The resurrection of Centropogon oaxacanus is proposed, and C. wilburii is considered as a heterotypic synonym. Both names were previously known only from the type localities in Oaxaca. Lobelia caeciliae was previously known only from the holotype, which was collected in Chiapas. Lobelia tatea reaches its northernmost limit in the submontane forests of Veracruz. For each taxon, the distinguishing characters and similar species are discussed.
23314165|Several nomenclatural changes have taken place in Platanthera within the past decade, including the recircumscription of species and newly described segregate taxa. Collections in herbaria should be updated to reflect these changes, however Platanthera herbarium specimens are difficult to identify because diagnostic qualitative and quantitative characters present in the field are not always available in dried material. Such a problem is found in P. hyperborea s. lat. from continental North America, which is now known to comprise the diploid P. aquilonis and the putative allotetraploid P. huronensis. Platanthera aquilonis and P. dilatata are commonly regarded as progenitors of P. huronensis. Platanthera hyperborea s. str. is not known to occur in continental North America. I undertook a study to determine if herbarium specimens of P. hyperborea s. lat. and the closely related P. dilatata representing British Columbia populations could be annotated to reflect the current taxonomic treatment. I placed P. hyperborea s. lat. and P. dilatata herbarium specimens into groups using keys and descriptions provided in recent treatments. Principal components analysis (PCA) and ANOVAs were used to determine if groups existed in the data set. The univariate statistics supported the presence of three groups in the data set and individuals of known ploidy helped to confirm that phenetic clusters on the PCA scatterplot corresponded to the appropriate species. Using techniques outlined in this paper, Platanthera herbarium specimens can be annotated to reflect current taxonomic treatments.
23314164|Amelanchier alnifolia var. pumila (Smooth Saskatoon, Dwarf Serviceberry) is reported as new to Canada from the Crowsnest Pass and Castle Mountain regions of the Rocky Mountains of southwestern Alberta. It occurs in open prairie habitat in cool montane parklands. Completely glabrous with prominently toothed leaves, and with a discrete distribution including the Rocky Mountains and adjacent plains, A. alnifolia var. pumila is a distinctive taxon worthy of recognition. At the Canadian sites it occurs with A. alnifolia var. alnifolia and a range of putative hybrids. The Canadian collections are described, and compare well with the type material. A key to the Amelanchier taxa of Alberta and British Columbia is included.
23314163|Little is known about the single reported population of Dirca mexicana. I monitored air temperature from mid-2005 through mid-2007, analyzed pH of soil, used the global positioning system (GPS) to define geographical boundaries of the population, explored for additional populations, and studied aspects of sexual and asexual reproduction in situ and among seedlings in greenhouses. Temperature ranged from -2 to 35.5C, and weekly means were 7.4 to 18.1C. Soil pH was 6.3. No other populations were found at sites nearby with similar slopes and aspects, but a second distinct cluster of plants was found 221 m from the portion of the known population described previously. Numerous individuals of Catasticta nimbice nimbice, a butterfly in the family Pieridae, visited flowers in mid-March, 2007. Drupes were observed in May four of five years, and drupe count per plant was 3 to 131 among individuals with basal trunk diameters of 10 to 46 mm in 2007. Genetic analysis of 45 individuals revealed no putative clones. Drupes of D. mexicana were longer and wider than those of the other two species in the genus, while size of seeds was intermediate. Seedlings isolated from pollinators in a greenhouse flowered for the first time and formed viable seeds during their fourth spring of development, demonstrating the capacity of D. mexicana to self-pollinate or to form seeds via apomixis. These observations improve our understanding of the habitat and reproductive biology of this endemic species.
23314166|Rapid assessment surveys of fouling seaweed populations were conducted at 67 sites between Downeast Maine and Staten Island, New York during August of 2000, 2003, and 2005, plus JulyAugust of 2007. A total of 126 taxa were recorded, including 29 Chlorophyceae, 31 Phaeophyceae, 55 Rhodophyceae, four Cyanophyceae, one Xanthophyceae, and six macroscopic colonial diatoms (Bacillariophyceae). Several species were fast-growing nuisance organisms (e.g., Ulva spp.), while seven were introduced taxa. Four introduced species originated from Asia either directly or secondarily (Codium fragile subsp. fragile, Grateloupia turuturu, Neosiphonia harveyi, and Bonnemaisonia hamifera), two were from Europe (Lomentaria clavellosa and L. orcadensis), and one from the North Pacific (Melanosiphon intestinalis). Neosiphonia harveyi was the most widely distributed introduced taxon, occurring at 48 sites (71.6%), while L. clavellosa and L. orcadensis were only found at 3 sites (4.5%). Repeated observations (i.e., 2000, 2003, and 2007) at three sites in Massachusetts documented a recent rapid expansion of the invasive red alga G. turuturu into the Gulf of Maine through the Cape Cod Canal. The numbers of taxa per site were highest between Maine and Massachusetts (2842 taxa) and lowest (113 taxa) in southern New England and New York, presumably because of increased loading of various pollutants within Long Island Sound and near New York City. The highest mean ( SD) number of taxa per state was recorded in New Hampshire (28.8  8.0) and the lowest in Rhode Island (7.1  3.6). The green and red algae exhibited peak numbers in New Hampshire (i.e. 9.0  3.1 and 11.6  5.1), while brown algae were maximal in New Hampshire (8.2  1.1) and Maine (7.8  3.4) and much lower in Connecticut (1.0  1), Rhode Island (1.1  2.9), and New York (1.2  1.0). Fifty-four species were limited to 13 sites (1.54.7%), while only 7 occurred at > 50% of the sites. The most ubiquitous seaweeds included three opportunistic green algae (U. intestinalis, U. lactuca, and Blidingia minima), two perennial browns (Fucus vesiculosus and Ascophyllum nodosum), and the introduced Asiatic red alga, N. harveyi. Thirty-six taxa were restricted to individual states (31.3%), with Massachusetts exhibiting the highest number of unique taxa (17 or 14.8%) and Connecticut and New York the lowest (one taxon each or 0.9%). Massachusetts also had the highest number of total and mean shared species (86 and 43.3  10.7, respectively), while Connecticut had the opposite pattern (18 total and 15.0  7.5 shared taxa). Cheney's floristic ratio indicated that seaweeds restricted to the north of the Cape Cod Canal formed a cold-water flora, while those limited to the south of the Canal were somewhat less boreal. Most taxa from each state were annuals and exhibited cosmopolitan local distributional patterns, occurring in both open coastal and estuarine sites.
23314156|The vascular flora, natural communities, and natural community system on the Isles of Shoals in New Hampshire and Maine are described based on a combination of historical records dating back to 1614 and a comprehensive survey conducted in 2006. A total of 430 native or naturalized vascular plant taxa from 242 genera and 71 families have been documented on these nine maritime islands. The families best represented in the flora were Asteraceae (58 taxa), Poaceae (49 taxa), and Rosaceae (35 taxa); the largest genera were Carex (9 taxa), Juncus (8 taxa), Persicaria (7 taxa), and Solidago (7 taxa). Forty-two percent of the 430 plant taxa were non-native. Proportions among life forms were 86% herbs, 12% shrubs, and 2% trees. Plant richness for extant taxa totaled 333 and varied from 53 on White Island to 246 on Appledore. Fifteen plant taxa are rare in either New Hampshire or Maine. Fourteen natural communities, two human-disturbed cover types, and one natural community system were described from the nine islands. Eight of the 14 natural communities are extremely rare in New Hampshire; none of the communities are rare in Maine. Appledore, over twice the size of the next largest island, supported all 14 communities and both human-disturbed cover types. Seaveys, the second smallest island, supported just three communities. One natural community system was described, the maritime rocky shore, which characterizes all of the islands in the Isles of Shoals. Although not rare in Maine, this system in New Hampshire only occurs on these islands. Island size was significantly related to vascular plant richness and native plant richness but was somewhat less related to the richness of non-native plants.
23314157|The floristic diversity and vegetation communities of Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow, two peatland complexes of recent origin within the Lake Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge in Coos County, New Hampshire, were investigated. The combined vascular floras of Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow consisted of 178 species, 111 of which occurred in both peatlands. The flora included two state-listed species, Eriophorum angustifolium subsp. angustifolium (endangered) and Listera cordata (threatened). Abundance and frequency data from 617 quadrats along 35 transects were analyzed by two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN) and resulted in the recognition of nine vegetation cover types (CT): Thuja occidentalisAlnus incana CT, the Picea marianaNemopanthus mucronatus CT, the Nemopanthus mucronatusAlnus incana CT, the Rhododendron canadenseNemopanthus mucronatus CT, the Rhododendron canadenseChamaedaphne calyculata CT, the Chamaedaphne calyculataCarex oligosperma CT, the Scheuchzeria palustrisCarex oligosperma CT, the Carex lasiocarpaChamaedaphne calyculata CT, and the Dulichium arundinaceumPotentilla palustris CT. A tenth cover type consisting of aquatic vegetation, the Brasenia shreberiPotamogeton spp. CT, was recognized based on qualitative field observations. Despite the recent formation of these peatland complexes following the construction of the Errol Dam in 1853, the vegetation composition of Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow shares broad similarities with peatlands in New England, the northcentral United States, and adjacent Canada. Leonard Marsh and Harpers Meadow are best classified as oligotrophic to weakly minerotrophic level peatland complexes occupying broad and shallow outwash plains. Historical records, botanical evidence, and patterns in basin topography suggest that terrestrialization and paludification have been critical processes in the post-settlement development of these two large peatland complexes.
23313716|Based on recent and historical collections dating back to the early 1900s, the seaweed flora in Casco Bay, Maine consists of 206 taxa: 55 Chlorophyta, 70 Phaeophyta, and 81 Rhodophyta. In 1911, Frank Shipley Collins recorded 173 taxa from Casco Bay, while 164 taxa were found during recent sampling since 1994. A comparison of the two time periods shows a 77.7% similarity; some plants have apparently disappeared (or are very rare) and others are newly recorded. Eight newly collected seaweeds represent species that are most common in estuarine and shallow embayments and have southern warm-water affinities (e.g., Hummia onusta, Striaria attenuata, Callithamnion corymbosum, Ceramium cimbricum, Chondria baileyana, Polysiphonia denudata, P. elongata, and Spyridia filamentosa); six others represent introduced taxa, including Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides, Ulonema rhizophorum, Bonnemaisonia hamifera and its "Trailliella intricata" stage, plus Dumontia contorta, Lomentaria clavellosa, and Porphyra yezoensis f. yezoensis. The Asiatic red alga Neosiphonia harveyi, which represents another introduced taxon (i.e., 7th), was reported by Collins during the early 1900s. Comparisons of historical and present-day floras at two sites in Harpswell, Maine showed that the percent similarity values were lower and ranged from 41.5% at Basin Cove to 48.9% at Potts Point. At Basin Cove enhanced water motion and the loss of a tidal dam caused increased and altered species composition, while anthropogenic impacts due to a lobster pound diminished the flora at Potts Point. Historical floristic comparisons of seven other areas (Helgoland, Germany; the North Adriatic Sea; Denmark; Mount Desert Island, Maine; Penikese Island, Massachusetts; southern California; and the Florida Keys) are used to evaluate the stability of Casco Bay's flora and the impact of oil pollution. A comparison of Casco Bay's "composite" flora of 206 taxa with several other Northwest Atlantic sites shows that its species richness is approximately the same as that found within the Great Bay Estuarine System of New Hampshire and Maine (216 taxa), while it exceeds Penobscot Bay in mid-coastal Maine (139 taxa), Passamaquoddy Bay in New Brunswick (159 taxa), and several Northwest Atlantic islands (51145 taxa). However, there are fewer taxa than in Newfoundland (254 taxa), the largest insular habitat within the temperate Northwest Atlantic. Casco Bay's seaweed flora is dominated by annuals (i.e., 117 vs. 86 perennial taxa), reflecting its seasonally dynamic habitats and pronounced temperature fluctuations. Annuals or opportunistic forms also dominate the oil-impacted Fore River/Portland Harbor area.
23314207|The nomenclatural history of Cyperus retrofractus (L.) Torr. is discussed. An authentic Linnaean specimen is reinterpreted as the lectotype for the basionym Scirpus retrofractus L. and arguments are made for the reapplication of this name to a species which, since 1906, has been called Cyperus dipsaciformis Fernald.
23314212|New stations or re-locations of historical stations for 15 species of rare plants have been found along the Connecticut and West Rivers in southeastern Vermont. Platanthera flava and Rhexia virginica are proposed as state threatened species.
23314203|A new species, Ilex blancheana, is described from a high elevation cloud forest along the Rivere Blanche, south of Morne la Visite, Massif de la Selle, southern Haiti. This species is distinguished from other tropical American species of Ilex by the combination of small, conspicuously veined, and entire margined leaves with obtuse to slightly emarginate apices, and fasciculate inflorescences of three to nine, four-merous flowers, each with an ovoid and very prominent stigma. The hardwood communities of the ravines and the steep, more or less north-facing slopes at higher elevations in the vicinity of Morne La Visite support a diverse and highly endemic flora, which is known mainly through the field work of Erik L. Ekman.
23314211|Vaccinium sempervirens Rayner and Henderson is assigned to Vaccinium sect. Herpothamnus.
23314209|In Gros Morne National Park, Newfoundland, 43 vascular plant taxa have been identified as significantly rare; they are examined in subgroups of species sharing similar special habitats. These divisions correspond to a general classification of land regions and biophysiographic areas characterizing the Park. Aspects of range pattern, floristic affinity, ecology and community composition of the populations are discussed within each subgroup. Information from sample populations is treated by principal coordinate ordination to illustrate relationships between rare plant communities and abiotic variables.
23314206|The pollination biology of Cypripedium acaule, the pink lady's slipper, was studied by hand-pollinating flowers in the field and by examining pollination and fertilization patterns in naturally occurring populations near Amherst, Massachusetts. Fruit formation in C. acaule appears to be limited by pollinators rather than by other resources. Pollination intensity appears to be independent of floral density.
23314201|The first authentic record in Qubec of Carex oligocarpa is reported in the Ottawa Valley. This discovery, in the Eardley Escarpment, represents a significant outlying northerly station for this rare sedge and is only the seventh known location in Canada. Aspects of the site and forest community are described. The phytogeographic importance of the new record is examined in the context of other unique and rare elements of the Outaouais flora.
23314210|Four species of the genus Cyperus are described, illustrated, and compared to their nearest relatives. These are: C. matudae and C. breedlovei (Subgenus Protocyperus) from the Pacific slope of Chiapas, Mexico; and C. wilburii and C. svensonii (Subgenus Cyperus) from the lowlands of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and from the uplands of Chiapas, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, respectively.
23314208|Thirteen species and two subspecies are recognized in Polygonum section Polygonum in Canada. Four achene types are recognized in the section: smooth, roughened, papillose and striate-papillose. Descriptions, a discussion of comparative features, distributions, chromosome numbers and a key to the species are presented. Two new taxa are described: P. caurianum ssp. hudsonianum and P. franktonii.
23314205|Ten previously unrecorded species of vascular plants are listed for Kent Island, New Brunswick.
23312376|Preliminary to development of a management plan for Candlewood Lake (Fairfield and Litchfield Counties, CT), phytoplankton populations were recorded at several sites from April, 1983 through January, 1984. Vertical phytoplankton profiles were identified and counted to derive seasonal succession patterns and population concentrations. Vertical profiles of nitrate, phosphorus, chlorophyll a, phaeophytin a, temperature, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, and light were also recorded at the sampling sites. Distributions of phytoplankton were seasonal; approximately 104 cells/ml occurred in the epilimnion during summer stratification. The lake was dominated (89%) by blue-green algae (Oscillatoriaceae and Nostocaceae). Diatoms and green algae were important during spring and winter, respectively. Horizontal phytoplankton distributions throughout the lake were similar and correlated well with chlorophyll a concentrations. Nitrate concentrations were generally low (< 0.3 mg NO3/1) to non-detectable during the summer. Total phosphorus was found to be high, averaging 35 g/1 on the surface. Candlewood Lake is thus in an early eutrophic state.
23312380|The nomenclatural application of the name Hedyotis rosea Rafinesque (1817) is discussed. It is concluded that the name applies to the species also known as Houstonia pygmaea C. H. & M. T. Muller (1936). The new combination, Houstonia rosea (Rafinesque) Terrell, is proposed and a neotype is designated.
23312375|The dispersion pattern of aerial shoots of the common marsh reed, Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud., was determined by density counts from a marsh population in southeastern Massachusetts using quadrat methods. Statistical analyses of 0.0625 m2 quadrat data indicated a random dispersion pattern. An aggregated dispersion pattern is indicated by analyses of 0.25 m2 quadrat data. The aggregated dispersion pattern appears to be a reproductive pattern based on the mode of population development of P. australis in which extensive vegetative propagation forms aggregations of aerial shoots. In addition, the number of shoots per aggregate exhibited a logarithmic distribution that conforms to the concept of a viable unit.
23312385|Recent collections of four weedy species of angiosperms native to Eurasia are reported from Hampshire County, Massachusetts. Elsholtzia ciliata and Lepidium perfoliatum are reported for the first time from western Massachusetts. Three collections of Poa bulbosa from the Amherst area mark the first records of this species from New England. Apera (Agrostis) interrupta is reported for the firt time from the eastern seaboard of the United States.
23312384|New stations for Platanthera flava (L.) Lindl. and Triphora trianthophora (Sw.) Rydb. were discovered through field studies in New Hampshire and Maine. A short discussion of habits and ecology is also included.
23312373|The hybrid between Polystichum acrostichoides and P. braunii is common but overlooked in Vermont. Based on a qualitative analysis, the hybrid is structurally intermediate for most traits, but character states are not predominantly medial or nearer to those of tetraploid P. braunii. Indusia of the hybrid are much larger than those of either progenitor, suggesting a summation of development programs for indusial development. Stomates of the triploid hybrids are intermediate and nearer to those of P. braunii in size, but those of diploid P. acrostichoides are unexpectedly larger than those of tetraploid P. braunii. Chromosome counts confirm that the hybrid is commonly triploid, and that non-homologous pairing is high, as reported for other Polystichum hybrids (mean number of bivalents is 21.7). The hybrid is described and named as P.  potteri.
23312379|The grass genus Aristida in the southeastern United States is reviewed. Twenty species are present in the region, all indigenous to the area. New combinations proposed are Aristida purpurescens Poir. var. tenuispica (Hitchc.) Allred and var. virgata (Trin.) Allred.
23312374|Plantago maritima L. and Carex mackenziei Krecz., two seacoast salt marsh species rare at inland stations, are reported from the lower Carrot River valley of east-central Saskatchewan, Canada as new to the flora of the province. Taxonomic considerations for Plantago maritima and phytogeographical observations and comments for both species are included.
23312378|The sweet bay magnolia (Magnolia virginiana L.) from Gloucester, Massachusetts, was almost eliminated by flower collectors in the early 20th century from its one locality in New England. The population appears to have recovered since that time and now consists of approximately 129 multi-stemmed plants which have a total of 1800 stems. Approximately 33% of the plants produced fruits in 1984. Plants have shown a positive growth in height and number of stems in the two-year period, 19821984. No naturally occurring seedlings were evident. The population appears to be persisting through the vegetative vigor of existing plants, some of which may be long-lived. Seedlings grown from seed collected in the Gloucester stand in 1980 and transplanted back into the area in 1982 showed excellent survival (48%) and moderate growth as of 1984.
23312381|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the surfaces of achenes of Carex section Folliculatae and the allied section Collinsiae for systematic relationships. Epidermal patterns were distinctive and consistent for each taxon. Variation of epidermal cells was most evident with respect to size of cell, the number, thickness, and sinuosity of anticlinal walls per cell, and shape of the apex of silica bodies present in two of the taxa. Recognition of Carex lonchocarpa is supported.
23312377|The African Sisymbrium turczaninowii, Lepidium africanum, and L. schinzii and the South American L. bonariense are reported for the first time for North America. The Eurasian S. loeselii and the North American L. austrinum, L. lasiocarpum, and L. oblongum are new to the southeastern United States. All eight species were collected from waste grounds around wool-combing mills in South Carolina. A key to the eastern North American species of Lepidium is given.
23313936|Fruits, seeds and leaves of 48 gymnosperm and angiosperm taxa are reported from 283070 and 268030 year-old riverine sediments located just north of New Haven, Connecticut. Most of the fossils are identified to species, providing refinement of previously available pollen data; several species are not commonly found in Holocene pollen floras.
23313938|Chromosome numbers determined from 49 populations of Chrysopsis mariana (L.) Ell. ranged from diploid to octoploid: 2n = 8, 2n = 16, 2n = 24, 2n = 32 respectively. Seedlings from one 6x population had 59 small supernumerary chromosomes. These counts plus 8 previously reported counts indicate an allopatric distribution pattern of cytotypes throughout the range of the species. All cytotypes were found in Florida, whereas only hexaploids occurred in other parts of the range. Diploids occurred in two disjunct areas of Florida. Tetraploids and octoploids were found only in the northeastern portion of the Florida peninsula.
23313937|In eastern Maine the brightly colored flowers of Primula laurentiana Fern. produce no nectar; their faint but pleasant scent is strongest at the center of the corolla limb in a UV-reflecting, yellow ring called the "bird's eye." During our observations, six species of insects visited the flowers, the most important being the syrphid Helophilus groenlandicus (O. Fabricus) (Syrphidae). Since P. laurentiana is self-compatible, long-homostylous, and its stigmas are receptive when the introrse anthers dehisce, pollen-gathering by insects must lead to some self-pollination. Pollen adhering to pollinators' heads may effect cross-pollination during their flower-constant forays. This breeding system of facultative autogamy is concordant with the relatively low pollen-ovule ratio of about 130 to 1.
23313939|Plants referred in the past to Platanthera leucophaea (Nutt.) Lindl. have been found to comprise two species differing in pollination mechanisms, morphology, and geographic distribution. The more eastern species, P. leucophaea, is lectotypified, and the more western species is formally described as P. praeclara. Relationships of the species are discussed.
23313019|Field work and morphological studies on section Laxiflorae Kunth of the genus Carex L. revealed morphological variation in C. purpurifera Mack. is correlated with geographical distribution. Carex purpurifera appears to consist of two taxa, one found on soils derived from limestone in the western part of the range and the other on non-limestone-derived soils in the eastern part of the range. Morphological differences were retained in greenhouse-grown plants. Pollen mother cell counts of the western populations were n = 17, 18, and 19. The eastern populations were n = 14 only, the lowest recorded in section Laxiflorae. These cytological data support the contention that C. purpurifera consists of two distinct taxa and the newer one, C. manhartii Bryson, has been described elsewhere as a species.
23313018|Species composition, phenology, longevity and distribution patterns of New Hampshire seaweed populations from diverse coastal and estuarine habitats are given. Two hundred sixteen taxa were recorded (58 Chlorophyceae, 66 Phaeophyceae and 92 Rhodophyceae), including 8 new state and/or geographical records and the recent introduction of the green alga Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides to the Isles of Shoals. Each major group of seaweeds showed similar phenological patterns, with summer maxima and winter minima. The Rhodophyceae exhibited the greatest dominance by perennials (67.4%), the Phaeophyceae had an intermediate pattern (45.5%) and the green algae exhibited the greatest dominance by annuals (87.2%). Overall, the open coastal sites were dominated by cold temperate species, while warm temperate or "mixed floras" were more conspicuous in estuarine habitats. Varying phenological and longevity patterns were also evident in coastal and estuarine habitats. Most of the species (67%) occurred in both open coastal and estuarine habitats, while 23% were restricted to the open coast and 7% to estuarine habitats. Several unique distributional patterns were also noted, including contrasting patterns between closely related taxa, parasitic species and their respective hosts, and different life history stages of the same species. Several estuarine taxa represent disjunct populations north of Cape Cod, Massachusetts; they may be relicts of an earlier "hypsithermal" or warm period. The autecology of several disjunct taxa is discussed.
23313355|The reproductive biology of Magnolia grandiflora was investigated at three localities in south Louisiana. Over the 34 day flowering period, the flowers of M. grandiflora exhibited changes in sex expression (protogyny), stigmatic receptivity (self- and cross-compatibility to self-incompatibility), UV reflectance (strong reflectance of the stigmas to strong reflectance of the androphore), and pollinator reward (a hexose-dominated stigmatic nectar to pollen). Although beetles were occasional floral visitors and carried pollen, bees (non-native Apis mellifera and indigenous Lasioglossum bruneri) were frequent floral visitors and were the only floral visitors whose behavior showed any correlation with the array of floral changes that occurred over the 34 day flowering period.
23313353|Floodplain forests on eleven rivers in Massachusetts were surveyed to determine the variation in vegetation and soils across a range of hydrologic, physiographic, and climatic conditions. Quantitative vegetation data collected from 124 plots at 43 sites were analyzed using TWINSPAN and DECORANA (DCA), and six community types were identified. The six types were: Type IRiverine island floodplain forests (Acer saccharinumPopulus deltoidesAcer negundoMatteuccia struthiopteris association); Type IIMajor-river floodplain forests (A. saccharinumP. deltoidesLaportea canadensis association); Type IIITransitional floodplain forests (A. saccharinumArisaema dracontium association); Type IVSmall-river floodplain forests (A. saccharinumFraxinus pennsylvanicaQuercus palustris association); Type VAlluvial swamp forests (Acer rubrumA. saccharinumQ. bicolor association); and Type VIAlluvial terrace forests (A. rubrumCarya ovataPrunus serotina association). The most common herbaceous taxa throughout all community associations were M. struthiopteris, L. canadensis, Boehmeria cylindrica, and Onoclea sensibilis. Results of the classification showed variation in floodplain forest vegetation composition among rivers in Massachusetts corresponding to significant differences in soil mottling, soil texture, presence/absence of a surface organic layer, and soil pH.
23313354|Jaltomata lojae (Solanaceae) of southern Ecuador and northern Peru is described. This species is distinguished by the following features: finger hairs borne by the leaves and stems; a white, broadly infundibular to rotate corolla; exserted stigma; a broad nectary disk; and orange fruits. Corollas change from pale green to white at anthesis. Flowers are self-compatible, herkogamous, and sometimes protogynous. Microscopic, densely staining, multicellular glands that may be osmophores are located on the perianth. Berries are eaten by humans.
23313356|Section Scirpinae, as treated herein, forms a cohesive group of dioecious, unispicate sedges with pubescent perigynia, chromosome numbers of n = 31, and similar leaf anatomy, and possesses a high degree of interfertility between subspecies based on hand-pollinations. Taxa in this section are distributed primarily in North America. Taxonomic problems in the group have been related to the lack of a comprehensive monographic treatment, incomplete descriptions, and a lack of an understanding of the patterns of variation in morphological characters across a wide geographic range. Based on evidence from a previous study using morphology, chromosome numbers, leaf anatomy and surface structure, achene and perigynium micromorphology, interbreeding relationships, ecology, and distributions, five taxa are recognized. The section, as treated here, consists of C. scirpoidea, with four subspecies (ssp. scirpoidea, ssp. convoluta, ssp. pseudoscirpoidea, and ssp. stenochlaena), and C. curatorum. Two taxa, C. gigas and C. scabriuscula, have been excluded.
23313408|The endangered Geum radiatum (Rosaceae) and G. peckii are morphologically similar species and may represent a single taxon. Both are alpine species endemic to the Appalachian Mountains of eastern North America. Geum radiatum is known only from mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee and G. peckii from the White Mountains, New Hampshire, and sea-level bogs in Nova Scotia. Since these species are at risk in Canada and the U.S.A., their taxonomic status is important for determining conservation strategies. Taxonomic identity of these species was investigated using molecular genetic techniques. Forty individual plants from throughout the known range of each species were analyzed using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Cluster analysis and analysis of molecular variance clearly differentiate these species. Retention of the present classification as separate taxa is appropriate.
23313409|Seventy-six species of vascular plants were located in the peatland surrounding Poutwater Pond. The flora included two state listed species, Orontium aquaticum (Araceae) and Arceuthobium pusillum (Viscaceae), which are listed as threatened or of special concern in Massachusetts and which were previously known from the site. Six communities were identified using multivariate analysis. These communities included two Dwarf Shrub communities dominated by Chamaedaphne calyculata, two Tall Shrub communities dominated by either Vaccinium corymbosum and Decodon verticillatus or by V. corymbosum and Myrica gale, and two Forested communities dominated by Acer rubrum and Larix laricina or by Picea mariana. The floristics and communities indicate that this peatland shares broad similarities with other peatlands in the southern part of the glaciated Northeast.
23313410|Over one hundred years of botanical investigation have documented 1180 species, 18 varieties, 1 subspecies, and 40 hybrids, for a total of 1239 taxa, of vascular plants in Caledonia County in northeastern Vermont. These represent 478 genera in 124 families. Formal investigation of the local flora began in the late 19th century. Much of the flora was documented by F. H. Blanchard (18511892), who collected intensively during the 1880s, providing current researchers with a "snapshot" of the flora a century ago. Recent work (19901998) has added 107 species to the county. Six species (Aster brachyactis, Carex ovalis, Crepis tectorum, Orobanche minor, Pulmonaria saccharata, and Veronica filiformis) are reported as new to Vermont. Rare and protected species are well represented with 29 taxa listed as threatened or endangered in Vermont, and another 61 considered rare at the state level.
23313393|Having scoured freshwater habitats throughout Connecticut for more than two years at 151 collection sites, we have discovered the presence of nine species and two varieties of the genus Vaucheria, including four species not previously known from the state: V. prona, V. taylorii, V. uncinata, and V. undulata. In addition, V. compacta, normally found in local estuaries, is reported in freshwater here, and is distinguished from its local freshwater variety, V. compacta var. dulcis. Culture conditions in the laboratory stimulated production of gametangia, allowing for identification of mostly vegetative field-collected samples. A key to the species and varieties is provided.
23313395|Cardamine georgiana is proposed to replace the illegitimate name C. microphylla (Willd.) O. E. Schulz (1903; non Adams 1817). A discussion on the generic limit of Cardamine including Dentaria is presented.
23313392|Studies of three groups of North American Acalypha (Euphorbiaceae) species are presented. Acalypha hederacea and A. monostachya have traditionally been separated by plant sexuality and staminate inflorescence length, but examination of specimens from throughout the ranges of these two taxa show that they do not differ in either character. Acalypha hederacea should be treated as a synonym of A. monostachya. Acalypha lindheimeri and A. phleoides supposedly differ in toothing of the bracts subtending the pistillate flowers and in the shape of the leaf apices. However bract toothing is highly variable among these plants and leaf apex shape varies clinally, with numerous intermediates. Acalypha lindheimeri, based on specimens both geographically and morphologically extreme, should be treated as a synonym of A. phleoides. The A. virginica group has a complex taxonomic history. Taxonomic confusion has resulted from emphasis on characters that are unreliable because they show overlapping variation among the taxa. Five species can be distinguished based on unambiguous, nonoverlapping characters.
23313394|Disturbances have the potential to increase the success of biological invasions. Norway maple (Acer platanoides), a common street tree native to Europe, is a foreign invasive with greater tolerance and more efficient resource utilization than the native sugar maple (Acer saccharum). This study examined the role disturbances from a road and path played in the invasion of Norway maple and in the distribution of sugar maple. Disturbed areas on the path and nearby undisturbed areas were surveyed for both species along transects running perpendicular to a road. Norway maples were present in greater number closer to the road and on the path, while the number of sugar maples was not significantly associated with either the road or the path. These results suggest that human-caused disturbances have a role in facilitating the establishment of an invasive species.
23313396|The geographic relationships among taxonomic groups are important to study to determine patterns of biodiversity and whether or not associations occur between large groups, e.g., birds and vascular plants. This study was undertaken to determine relationships between higher plants and lower plants, specifically vascular plant and lichen floras in nine national parks of the Great Lakes region. No significant relationship was found between vascular plant floras and lichen floras in this area, which spans 1200 km longitudinally, or between an additional 19 areas from North America that were less than 1000 km2 in area. For areas larger than 1000 km2, however, a significant positive relationship existed for 33 areas that span one to approximately 150 million km2. The ratio of numbers of vascular plants to lichens appeared to average just over 6 across the 33 areas. In the Great Lakes parks, between 2830% of either the vascular plant or lichen species were singletons (occurring in only one park), but the parks that contained the most singletons were not congruent: Isle Royale had the most singleton lichens, while Indiana Dunes had the most vascular plant singletons. Fewer lichen species (2%) than vascular plants (4%) occurred in all nine parks. Latitude appeared to explain some of the variation between the two groups: vascular plants decreased with increasing latitude, while lichens increased.
23313329|Morphological variables were analyzed using principal components and discriminant analyses to determine patterns of relationships among populations of Hackelia venusta, a narrow endemic, and H. diffusa var. arida, a relatively common species. The results of the analyses indicate that H. venusta, as currently circumscribed, consists of two discordant taxa with the population from the type locality at a low elevation clearly distinct from high elevation populations that have been assigned to this species. The high elevation populations represent an undescribed taxon. No affinities with either the low elevation H. venusta or the high elevation undescribed taxon were found to exist with populations of H. diffusa var. arida. Both H. venusta and the undescribed high elevation taxon are very narrow endemics and would benefit from well-developed conservation strategies and subsequent management.
23313331|Submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV), Zostera marina and Ruppia maritima, was surveyed and mapped for an inventory of inner Clinton Harbor, Clinton, Connecticut. Transects set at 30 meter intervals were established along the northern shoreline of the inner harbor, and SCUBA was utilized to count SAV short shoot densities. Surveys revealed that the majority of the inner harbor was dominated by nine areas (ca. 11 ha) of low density seagrass beds. In addition, nine areas (ca. 6.5 ha) of high density seagrass beds and ten areas (ca. 5.5 ha) of medium density seagrass beds were located. No SAV was found in the navigational channel or upon the mudflat along the northern shore of the inner harbor.
23313330|Myriophyllum mattogrossense is reported as new to Bolivia. This rare Watermilfoil of the Amazon Basin was previously known only from the original area of discovery in Brazil, one locality in the lowlands of Peru, and one in Ecuador. Notes on morphology, including a terrestrial growth form, and habitat are given, and a key is provided to differentiate the South American taxa of Myriophyllum.
23313332|Little Dollar Lake peatland, a Sphagnum-dominated poor fen peatland complex, has a flora consisting of 36 bryophyte and 93 vascular plant species. Random, quantitative sampling of 279 one-meter-square quadrats along 13 transects on six peatland mats was analyzed by two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN). Based on interpretation of the TWINSPAN analysis, three vegetation cover types and six constituent vegetation phases were delineated. The three cover types were designated as the Calamagrostis canadensis cover type (lagg habitats), the Chamaedaphne calyculata cover type (peatland mat habitats), and the Chamaedaphne calyculataTriadenum fraseri cover type (transitional habitats with evidence of terrestrialization). A fourth association, the Potamogeton confervoidesUtricularia geminiscapa cover type, was recognized based on qualitative field observations and consisted of the aquatic vegetation within Little Dollar Lake. Botanical evidence suggests that terrestrialization and small-scale paludification are occurring in some areas of the peatland.
23314457|Since 1939, when it escaped into the Rideau canal at Ottawa, Hydrocharis morsus-ranae has spread throughout much of southeastern Ontario, southern Quebec, and northern New York State. Over the past fourteen years it has increased its area of occurrence in North America by three times and is now known throughout the Rideau canal system, the lower Ottawa River, the entire St. Lawrence, eastern Lake Ontario, and also at Rondeau Park on the north shore of Lake Erie. It has also become much more frequent in areas from which it has been known for 1020 years. Occurrence in isolated pools suggests effective dispersal and colonization which may involve both seeds and turions. Although H. morsus-ranae differs from most other North American aquatics in having very rounded leaves with five prominent and converging primary veins, these characters do not distinguish it from floating-leaved forms of Limnobium spongia. The recent spread of H. morsus-ranae has resulted in it closely approaching the range of L. spongia, although the present distribution of the latter does not extend north of Illinois in the Mississippi drainage or north of New Jersey on the Atlantic coastal plain. Hydrocharis morsus-ranae differs from L. spongia in having relatively less well developed aerenchyma on the undersurface of the leaf, relatively longer leaf lobes, leaf veins on either side of the midvein less ascending, free stipules in pairs, roots usually unbranched and stolon buds developing one instead of numerous roots initially. Other characters differing between the two taxa are described including flowers, seeds, petiole lengths, and leaf venation. These latter characters are less significant in identification either due to their frequent absence on collected material or qualitative and overlapping nature.
23314456|Tithonia Desf. ex Gmelin is a genus distributed primarily in Mexico and Central America. The present treatment recognizes 13 taxa in 11 species, arranged in two sections. Chromosome counts are reported for 51 populations for 12 taxa of Tithonia. The genus is diploid at n = 17, with two taxa, T. koelzii McVaugh and T. calva var. auriculata La Duke, having B chromosomes. Numerical phenetics were used to help evaluate the morphological variation among the taxa. Fifty-eight characters were measured and evaluated using both cluster analysis and principal component analysis. These analyses resulted in a better understanding of subgeneric, specific, and subspecific groups. Phylogenetic reconstruction techniques were then used to develop hypotheses about the evolutionary relationships among the taxa. Using the phenetic and phylogenetic analyses, a subgeneric classification was proposed consisting of two sections, one of which has three series.
23311921|Malvastrum, a genus of yellow-flowered annual or perennial tropical and subtropical herbs in the Malvaceae, was described by Asa Gray in 1849 to include members of Sida and Malva that did not quite fit into those genera. During the next century the rather ill-defined genus became a repository for over 300 names. Subsequent monographic work brought about refinements in its circumscription that resulted in generic segregates and a core of so-called "true" Malvastrums. After morphological, karyological, phenological, and numerical analyses, the present study accepts seven sections, 14 species, six subspecies, and two varieties in Malvastrum. The following contributions have been made: 1) the citation of all of the names published in Malvastrum together with their present placement and disposition of types; 2) an analysis of the geographic distribution of Malvastrum together with an hypothetical account of the origin and subsequent dispersal of the species; 3) a comparison of the morphology, chromosome numbers, limited hybridization data, and floral behavior within Malvastrum resulting in a proposal of infra- and intergeneric relationships; 4) the inclusion of a revised generic description and diagnostic key to the taxa; and 5) the inclusion of a detailed description, synonymy, and illustration for each taxon, several of which have never previously been illustrated.
23311926|Chromosome numbers are presented for 36 populations of Peruvian Compositae representing 34 species distributed among 27 genera. Of these, 22 are first reports, two new generic counts (Garcilassa, n = 17 pair; Pseudonoseris, n = 12 pair). When appropriate, systematic implications of these data are discussed.
23311923|This checklist provides a field list of the alpine and coastal plain flora of Western Brook Pond and Deer Pond areas in Gros Morne National Park, western Newfoundland. Plants are listed under six major habitat types; including coastal forest, tuckamore, barrens, peatlands, alpine meadow and rocks, cliffs and gullies. A general vegetation profile with main soil types is also given. 1 Cette liste de contrle fournit un rpertoire des flores alpine et de la plaine cotire de Western Brook Pond et Deer Pond  l'interieur du Parc National Gros Morne dans la rgion ouest de Terre-Neuve. Les plantes y sont numrees selon les six principaux types d'habitat: la fort ctire, les tuckamores, les terres striles, les tourbires, les plaines alpines et les rochers, falaises et ravins. Une description gnrale de la vgtation, incluant les principaux types de sol, y est aussi donne.
23310993|A study of synthesized hybrids and wild strains of the species of Mentha has confirmed the origin and parentage of M.  dumetorum Schultes, (M. aquatica  M. longifolia). The study was based on morphology, chromosome number, meiotic behaviour, and pollen and seed fertility. Chromosome numbers of 2n = 60, 72, were obtained for M.  dumetorum. The interspecific hybrids showed 100% sterility correlated with meiotic irregularities.
23313266|Pollination biology, reproductive output, and population structure of male and female plants and flowers of Smilax herbacea were studied in nearly 900 individuals from 11 roadside populations in northeast-central Connecticut over a three-year period. Percentages of either sex did not vary across sites or between years. Reproductive plants represented 60% of an average population and nearly 65% of these were male. Female mortality is suggested as the most likely reason for the strong male bias (2.3  : 1 ). The male plants, although smaller, had twice the number of inflorescences, and 68% more flowers than female plants. Both inflorescence and flower number were significantly correlated with plant size in male plants. This correlation was absent for female plants implying that male plants are less constrained in the number of inflorescences and flowers they can produce. Although site size, population size, and population density of both female and male plants varied significantly across sites, gender and overall plant densities were not correlated with site size. However, a significant interaction was found between the densities of each sex and the site of their occurrence, suggesting that distribution of gender patterns may be influenced by site-specific ecological factors. Smilax herbacea can be characterized as a generalist in its attraction of pollinators. The carrion-like odor produced in tepals of male and female flowers, and the pollen reward of the staminate flowers attract bees, beetles, and flies. Due primarily to their high mobility and good pollen carrying capacity, andrenid and halictid bees and anthomyiid and stratiomyiid flies are considered major pollinators. Minor pollinators include soldier (Cantharidae), long-horned (Cerambycidae), and fire-colored (Pyrochroidae) beetles. Overall fruit set was lower in 1995 than in 1994 or 1996; this likely was due to unusually wet conditions that year. No significant difference in fruit set among populations was detected. Less than 1% of intrapopulational fruit set variation was explained by either site size or by plant density. Male plant densities were not significantly correlated with fruit set across sites. Further more, experimental interpopulational crosses did not significantly increase fruit set. These facts imply resource rather than pollen limitation in female plants.
23313269|The decurrent false aster, Boltonia decurrens (Asteraceae), is a Federally listed, threatened floodplain species endemic to a 400 km reach of the lower Illinois River and adjacent areas of the Mississippi River. The present study was conducted in response to the Recovery Plan for B. decurrens, which called for life history studies to provide information essential to planning management programs for the species. A series of laboratory studies was conducted to determine achene morphology, achene production and germination under a variety of conditions, and the potential for dispersal by water. Boltonia decurrens produces ca. 50,000 achenes per individual, and based on achene viability observed in this study, an average plant is capable of producing ca. 40,000 seedlings under optimal conditions for germination. There was no difference between germination of achenes produced by ray and disk florets; however, achene size had a significant effect on germination and viability, with larger achenes having higher levels of both. Achenes are morphologically adapted for flotation, and germination was not significantly reduced in achenes floated for four weeks. Achenes which were not exposed to light did not germinate, whether they were covered with aluminum foil or with sediment. Results suggest that factors other than fecundity are responsible for the threatened status of B. decurrens. Heavy siltation of river water caused by agricultural runoff, and flood control measures limiting dispersal may have contributed to the decline of the species.
23313268|Canonical discriminant analysis was used to determine: (1) whether Antennaria alpina occurs in North America or not; (2) which character or combination of characters could best be used to distinguish members of the A. alpina and A. media polyploid complexes; and (3) whether infraspecific taxa warrant formal recognition in A. alpina. The results of this investigation indicate that A. alpina does occur in North America. The main morphological distinctions between the two aforementioned polyploid complexes are the presence of scarious tips at the ends of middle to distal peduncular leaves in A. alpina, these being absent in A. media, and the shape of the involucral bracts. The analyses support the recognition of infraspecific taxa in A. alpina. To maintain consistency with other recent revisions of polyploid complexes in the genus, the rank of subspecies (A. alpina subsp. alpina, subsp. canescens, and subsp. porsildii) was selected. In addition to minor quantitative differences, the three subspecies differ with respect to the degree, distribution, and type of pubescence on the basal leaves.
23313267|Callitriche stagnalis (Callitrichaceae) is a widespread aquatic species in the Old World, but an adventive component of the North American flora. Herbarium records are used to document the historical and current distribution of C. stagnalis in North America. It is hypothesized that the species initially established in North American seaports. The earliest collections of C. stagnalis in North America are from coastal regions in New York (1861), Oregon (1871), and New Jersey (1885). Prior to 1925, it is known from only a single noncoastal location (Montana, 1898). The rate of spread of C. stagnalis on the east versus west coast of North America differs. The species was well established on the east coast by the 1920s in New Jersey, New York, and southeastern Pennsylvania. On the west coast, only two locations (Oregon, British Columbia) were known by this time. The current distribution indicates that the species has spread about the same distance in both east and west coastal regions (400500 miles): west coast, from the first documented locality in Clatsop Co., Oregon, to Napa Co., California, and east coast from Mercer Co., New Jersey, to regions of the St. Lawrence River in Quebec. Inland populations (Alabama, Montana, Wisconsin) are anomalous. Seed production is prolific in C. stagnalis and seeds are likely the principal unit of dispersal.
23313348|After decades of neglect, the sedge flora of Barbados was reappraised, beginning with intensive collections made across the island. Twenty-eight species of Cyperaceae from the genera Abildgaardia, Cyperus (including Mariscus), Eleocharis, Fimbristylis, Kyllinga, Pycreus, Rhynchospora, Scleria, and Torulinium are described and illustrated with photographs. Keys are provided to all of the species, as well. Five species are added to the flora of Barbados. Species previously recorded but not found recently are noted.
23313347|Based upon recent collections at 28 sites plus historical data from the last century, the macroalgal flora of Mount Desert Island consists of 41 Chlorophyceae, 50 Phaeophyceae, and 55 Rhodophyceae. Previously, 121 seaweeds were recorded from Mount Desert Island and 113 taxa were found during present sampling. A comparison of the two time periods shows 88 taxa in common or a 75% similarity. Varying percent similarity patterns are evident when historical and present collections at Otter Cliffs (68%), Seal Harbor (43%), and the Seawall-Southwest Harbor areas (54%) are compared. The reduced values for Seal Harbor may reflect anthropogenic effects, while the other values may represent varying levels of taxonomic characterization and/or temporal variability of floras. Pronounced habitat diversity on Mount Desert Island probably causes the relatively low intra-island similarity patterns (x = 36.8  7.6%), while interisland comparisons of other Northwest Atlantic islands are much higher (ca. 51.092.0%, x = 72.3%  6.0%). In comparing species richness around Mount Desert Island, the largest numbers of taxa occur on the exposed coasts at Otter Cliffs and Seawall that experience intense wave activity, while the lowest numbers occur at several sheltered sites. Zonation patterns at three representative sites (exposed Otter Cliffs, protected Otter Cove, and sheltered Thompson Island) show pronounced localized differences. The biological zones at Otter Cliffs exceed mean tidal amplitude, and patterns of species richness there are also higher than at the other two Mount Desert sites. Green algae show the most conspicuous decrease in species richness with increasing shelter. Of the 32 intertidal species in common with a 1928 zonation study at Otter Cliffs, 13 showed a conspicuous reduction in their upper distributional limits (0.5 to 2.0 m), while none showed an upward expansion. Such reductional patterns may reflect either a general warming trend in the Gulf of Maine or the effects of air pollution during intertidal exposure.
23313342|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the Poaceae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. The 338 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms) are mapped based on specimens in the major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with primary emphasis on the holdings of the New England Botanical Club herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in recent manuals and floras for the area, habitat, chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23313363|Drosera filiformis and D. tracyi occupy allopatric ranges, except for one restricted area in northwest Florida. Drosera filiformis is nearly restricted to the Atlantic Coastal Plain; D. tracyi is restricted to the Gulf Coastal Plain. The two species have been found to grow sympatrically in only one limited area. Natural hybrids are unknown. The distribution of D. filiformis is notable for its series of disjunct populations; only three other Atlantic Coastal Plain species are distributed in a similar pattern. The distribution of D. tracyi is continuous and without disjunctions. Many Gulf Coastal Plain species share this pattern, including close relatives of the four Atlantic disjuncts. It is postulated that the Atlantic disjuncts assumed their current discontinuous distributions through a series of short to moderately long dispersal events, followed by a loss of intervening populations. Either the Atlantic disjuncts were derived from their Gulf Coast counterparts, or both geographic groups were derived from a now extinct precursor.
23313366|Carex enneastachya is the only member of section Phacocystis thus far known from northern South America. Carex azuayae, originally described from Ecuador, is here considered to be conspecific with C. enneastachya. Additionally, this note represents the first report of C. enneastachya from Bolivia.
23313365|We examined allozyme variation in five populations of Amelanchier laevis, which is known to be a facultative apomict in Maine, and four populations of a closely allied species, A. arborea. While A. laevis had slightly less genetic variation than A. arborea and less than half the number of multilocus genotypes per population, ranges of these parameters overlap extensively for the two species. Therefore, overall, these two species are comparable in the amount and distribution of their allozyme variation. Both species also had less diversity than expected based on their life history traits. Little interpopulation genetic differentiation occurred in either species, perhaps due to gene flow via avian fruit dispersal. Genetic identities are quite high among populations within each species as well as between the two species. In fact, each A. arborea population was more similar to at least one A. laevis population than to other A. arborea populations. Amelanchier laevis populations were also more similar to populations of the other species except in the case of two of the Maine populations. Recent morphological diversification and/or extensive hybridization in the genus may account for these results. Studies of additional Amelanchier species would indicate whether or not the level and pattern of genetic variation and the high genetic similarities of these two taxa are representative of the genus.
23313367|The seed bank compositions of four different coastal sand dunes on Cape Cod National Seashore (Massachusetts, USA) were characterized and used to predict the potential of seed banks in restoring species diversity in degraded sand dunes. Seedling emergence from sand collected from each site was observed over 15 weeks. A total of 254 seedlings emerged during the study. A single species, Artemisia caudata, was responsible for 85% of the total seedling emergence, and all but one of those seedlings was from a single study site. Overall, seedling emergence and the species diversity of seedlings was low, indicating a low density of seeds in the sand dune substrate. Seedlings emerged from only 20% of the sand samples, indicating that the distribution of seeds in the sand is tightly clustered. The lowest numbers of seedlings emerged from the most severely degraded site which had recently been replanted with Ammophila breviligulata (American Beachgrass). Potential reasons for this clumping of seedlings are discussed, including poor seed dispersal as a result of buried mature infructescences or as a result of wind deposition of seeds in small depressions. The results suggest that the existing seed bank is unlikely to lead to significant increases in species diversity at sites undergoing restoration. Consequently, the importation of sand and its associated seed bank from more mature sites is not a feasible means of restoring diversity because of the low density and species diversity of seeds in the sand at more stable sites.
23313364|Isoetes microvela, sp. nov., is described from cytologically confirmed hexaploid populations from the coastal plain of North Carolina. At least one population grows over thinly-buried calcareous bedrock, a rare condition on the predominantly acidic southeastern coastal plain. It is a large quillwort of periodically inundated and scoured stream banks and shallow water. It is characterized by a densely short-crested to reticulate-tuberculate megaspore ornamentation pattern intermediate in appearance between that of I. appalachiana and I. hyemalis, an exceptionally small velum covering  10% of the heavily brown-streaked sporangium, and by obscurely tuberculate microspores. A key to the Isoetes of the southeastern coastal plain is presented. Isoetes microvela is suspected to represent an allopolyploid derived from the doubling of a sterile triploid hybrid, most likely I. bruntonii (= I. engelmannii  I. hyemalis) or I. appalachiana  I. engelmannii. Isoetes microvela is a rare species, presently known from only two populations.
23314688|Riparian forests of northwestern Pennsylvania's Allegheny High Plateau are often dominated by eastern hemlock, Tsuga canadensis, a tree species under threat from the introduced hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). It is vital to document the structure and composition of these forests before adelgid invasion to understand how they may respond to this disturbance and to provide information useful for future restoration and management efforts. To meet these goals, we compared the composition and structure of old-growth and second-growth stands in a T. canadensis-dominated riparian forest along Henry Run, Cook Forest State Park, Pennsylvania. Tsuga canadensis strongly dominated the large tree stratum of the old-growth stand, followed by Betula lenta and Fagus grandifolia. Tsuga canadensis and Pinus strobus were codominant in the second-growth stand with B. lenta, Fraxinus americana, and Acer rubrum as secondary species. Seedlings and saplings of dominant tree species in both old-growth and second-growth stands were under represented relative to small and large trees, indicating regeneration difficulties. The alien shrub Berberis thunbergii was the only sapling species to occur in the second-growth stand, perhaps a land-use legacy, but was absent from the seedling stratum. We predict that the potential loss of T. canadensis from the canopy at Henry Run may cause a shift in composition to B. lenta and/or P. strobus as these species capture gaps created by dead and dying T. canadensis. However, browsing pressure by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and competition with B. thunbergii may affect regeneration success of specific tree species and ultimately, future forest canopy composition.
23314686|Metal-enriched habitats often harbor physiologically distinct biotas able to tolerate and accumulate toxic metals. Plants and lichens that accumulate metals have served as effective indicators of ecosystem pollution. Whereas the diversity of metal-tolerant lichens has been well documented globally, the literature of metal-tolerant lichen communities for eastern North America is limited. We examined the lichen flora of the Callahan Mine, a Cu-, Pb-, and Zn-enriched superfund site in Brooksville, Hancock County, Maine, U.S.A. Through collections along transects across metal-contaminated areas of the mine, we documented 76 species of lichens and related fungi. Fifty species were saxicolous, 26 were terricolous. Forty-three species were macrolichens, 31 were microlichens. Although no globally rare or declining species were encountered at the mine, two regionally rare or declining species, Stereocaulon tomentosum and Leptogium imbricatum, were found. The species found at the Callahan Mine were mostly ecological generalists frequenting disturbed habitats. Two extensively studied Cu-tolerant lichens, Acarospora smaragdula and Lecanora polytropa, and other known Cd-, Cu-, Pb-, and Zn-tolerant taxa, were found at the site.
23314687|Utricularia resupinata is an Atlantic Coastal Plain relict of the aquatic vascular flora of Indiana and is one of 10 species of bladderwort found in the state. This species was thought to be extirpated from Indiana until it was rediscovered at a historical locality in 2005. We document two additional populations of this species in Indiana and report on the status of all known historical localities in the state. Six palustrine sites in Lake County and nine lacustrine sites in northern Indiana were identified and surveyed; however, no extant populations were found. We provide a historical synopsis of alterations to wetland habitat in Lake County and identify habitat destruction as the main contributing factor leading to the loss of U. resupinata from these palustrine sites. Although suitable habitat appeared to be present at most lacustrine sites, several other factors may be important in contributing to the perceived rarity of this species. Inadequate sampling techniques, which include a tendency to confine searches for this species to shoreline habitats instead of deeper areas of the littoral zone, the use of in-boat aquatic plant survey methods, and an over-reliance on flowering material for identification of a species that seldom flowers, have contributed to a greater perception of rarity than may actually be present. In contrast, competitive exclusion by larger aquatic plants and charophytes may provide an ecological explanation for the rarity of this species in some locations.
23314690|We characterized the morphological variation and algal species associations of the filamentous green alga, Acrosiphonia arcta (distinguishing it from its closely related sister genus Spongomorpha), in two contrasting environments in Nova Scotia, Canada. The habitats differed in seawater salinity and temperature (and fluctuations thereof), substratum, vertical position on the shore, wave exposure, turbidity, and diversity of macroalgae and macrofauna. Acrosiphonia arcta thalli exhibited distinct morphologies in the different environments. Thalli from the open-ocean Whitehead site (Atlantic coast) exhibited the typical A. arcta morphology of profuse, short, curved branches and rhizoids binding the filaments together to form hemispherical to spherical tufts. Thalli from the sheltered Pomquet Harbour Estuary (Gulf of St. Lawrence coast) consisted of matted clumps with extensive rhizoidal growth at the base but little branching otherwise. Acrosiphonia arcta was primarily associated with thick leathery and crustose (coralline) algae at Whitehead. In the Pomquet Harbour Estuary, a less stable habitat than Whitehead, sheet and filamentous algae were in greater abundance with A. arcta than at Whitehead. Damaged apical cells from thalli of both Pomquet and Whitehead A. arcta were able to regenerate new filamentous tips or to give rise to rhizoids, phenomena not previously documented for Acrosiphonia in North America. Morphological variation of A. arcta in different habitats points to its ability to respond to and persist in a wide range of abiotic (and possibly biotic) conditions, and helps to explain its seasonal dominance on the east and west coasts of North America.
23314689|Four parameters were used to determine pollinator effectiveness of floral visitors to two sympatric species of Symphyotrichum (S. lanceolatum and S. lateriflorum): (1) pollinator efficiency; (2) relative abundance of visitors; (3) amount of pollen carried on a visitor's body; and (4) visitor foraging time per capitulum. The most effective pollinators of S. lanceolatum were Apis mellifera (Apidae), Eristalis spp. (Syrphidae), Dolichovespula arenaria, and Polistes fuscatus (both Vespidae). Halictidae (sweat bees) and Tachinidae (Diptera) were also potentially effective pollinators. For S. lateriflorum, effective pollinators included D. arenaria, Vespula maculifrons (Vespidae), Lasioglossum spp. (Halictidae), and A. mellifera, with large syrphid flies also having moderate importance. The Halictidae was the only group of visitors that demonstrated a significant difference in the amount of time spent foraging the floral heads of these two aster species. Despite spending more time foraging the floral heads of S. lateriflorum, halictid bees carried the same average pollen load regardless of the species of Symphyotrichum from which they were collected. Halictid bees, however, are potentially more effective pollinators of S. lateriflorum than of S. lanceolatum.
23314599|In 2008 a calcareous mound fen not listed in the state Natural Heritage Inventory was discovered in south-central Wisconsin. Air photo interpretations and interviews with land users indicated two distinct major historical alterations to this fen: (1) drainage tiling without widespread soil disturbance and (2) plowing with or without direct drainage. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination of survey plots revealed that an assemblage of calciphiles, fen indicators, and wetland generalists persisted in the mound's center, while invasive herbaceous and woody vegetation reached highest cover along the disturbed flanks. Cluster analyses revealed three distinct communities: (1) a fen meadow in the center of the fen, (2) invading shrub-carr in tiled areas, and (3) a weedy/invasive herbaceous community where soil disturbance was widespread. This study lends support to past assertions that drainage can lead to shrub-carr invasion and suggests that widespread soil disturbance can lead to domination by herbaceous invasive plants on fen flanks.
23314598|Typically, non-native invasive plant species are considered a threat to rare native plants, but this generalization may not hold true for rare parasitic plants that depend upon host plants to complete their life cycles. It is essential to know what plant species a particular hemiparasitic species associates with in the field, in order to determine host plant preferences and to make broader inferences about host plants. Pedicularis lanceolata is a hemiparasite that is regionally rare in New England and the southeastern margins of its range, but more abundant in the core of its range in the Midwest. I sought to compare the species associated with P. lanceolata in the core and margins of its range to determine if marginal populations have different associates from core populations. I hypothesized that P. lanceolata may be rare in the eastern United States because it encounters fewer suitable associates, and potentially more competitive invasive species, at the margins of its range than at the center of its range. In each of 22 populations of P. lanceolata I recorded abundances of all vascular plants growing near five focal P. lanceolata individuals. Different suites of species co-occurred with P. lanceolata in different parts of its range, but there were no significant differences across its range in the percent covers of natives, non-native invasives, non-native non-invasives, or species with native and non-native genotypes. These results suggest that non-native invasive species do not pose greater threats to edge populations of P. lanceolata than to core populations. The data suggest that candidates for potential hosts include members of the Asteraceae and Poaceae, Cirsium discolor, Clematis virginiana, Cornus amomum, Eupatorium maculatum, E. perfoliatum, Impatiens capensis, Lycopus uniflorus, and Vernonia gigantea. These data provide baseline data for future manipulative studies on host-preference of P. lanceolata.
23314601|The endangered western prairie fringed orchid, Platanthera praeclara, is found in remnant tall grass prairie in the central plains of North America. Platanthera praeclara is pollinated by several species of hawkmoths (Sphingidae) in Canada. There is minimal overlap between the flight period of hawkmoth pollinators and the flowering period of the Canadian orchid population, with orchids normally flowering at the end of the hawkmoth flight period. This study was designed to determine if orchids produce more nectar and higher concentrations of sugars in the nectar at the beginning of the flowering period coinciding with maximal pollinator flight times. As pollinators are nocturnally active, we also determined if orchids produce more nectar or nectar with increased concentrations of sugars during the night versus the daytime. Nectar sugar concentration and the amount of nectar per flower were highest at the beginning of the flowering period, and significantly decreased as the season progressed. Nectar volume increased in the evening and during the night but sugar concentration remained relatively unchanged. We examined nectar volume and sugar concentration by flower position, as the majority of the flowers encountered by pollinators in the first few days of the bloom period were lower-positioned flowers due to the sequential flowering nature of the orchid. Within the inflorescence, lower-positioned flowers had higher sugar concentrations in comparison to higher-positioned flowers at the start of the flowering period, but sugar concentrations converged as the season progressed. There was no difference in the amount of nectar present in low- or top-positioned flowers. Orchids may show increased nectar sugar concentrations and amounts at the beginning of the flowering period to capitalize on the presence of hawkmoth pollinators.
23314600|We studied the influence of local site characteristics on the abundance of Equisetum scirpoides, a regionally rare, circumboreal species, at five sites in the Deerfield River watershed of Massachusetts, near the southern edge of its range. Equisetum scirpoides was most abundant on north- to northeast-facing, steep slopes (2234), with low total basal area (TBA) and small stem size. While E. scirpoides was always found in association with Tsuga canadensis, plots with high-density E. scirpoides were associated with lower Tsuga TBA than "low density/absent" plots. Average Tsuga and deciduous stem diameter at breast height within "high density" plots was significantly lower than in "low density/absent" plots. Our results suggest that E. scirpoides is unlikely to occur on south-facing slopes and, where it occurs on north-facing slopes, it requires low deciduous canopy cover and frequent disturbance, which exposes mineral soil. Equisetum scirpoides was absent from several similar habitats (i.e., with northerly aspect, steep slopes, clay substrate, Tsuga canopy, and massive bank failure) within the study watershed, suggesting that it has low dispersal capability at that scale.
23314659|Despite nearly a century of research, the systematic relationships among North American pitcher plants in the genus Sarracenia (Sarraceniaceae) remain unresolved. In this study we analyzed pollen morphology of the 11 currently recognized species of Sarracenia and examined how variations in key pollen characteristics relate to our current understanding of the taxonomy of this genus. We used principal components analysis to explore variations in pollen grain size (equatorial diameter and length) and shape (number of colpi) among Sarracenia species, and used cluster analysis to compare systematic groupings of Sarracenia based on floral, vegetative, and pollen characters. We compared these results with a previously published phylogeny based on molecular data. Groupings based on pollen characteristics alone did not align completely with those based on molecular or all morphological data. In clusters based on pollen alone and those using all morphological characters, S. purpurea and S. rosea formed a single group, and S. flava, S. alata, and S. leucophylla grouped together consistently. The pollen morphology of S. jonesii and S. alabamensis differed substantially from that of S. rubra, supporting the current systematic treatment of the genus that recognizes these three taxa as distinct species.
23314662|In taxa with few diagnostic characters, highly variable populations pose a major challenge to delimiting species. This is especially true in Dodecatheon (Primulaceae), which has a notoriously complex taxonomic history. Previous biosystematic studies of Dodecatheon in southern Illinois support the recognition of two species: D. frenchii, a diploid sandstone cliff endemic, and D. meadia, a widespread tetraploid. However, only one morphological character distinguishes them and some experimental evidence suggests that this character may be environmentally induced. Furthermore, authors have disagreed about the nature of morphologically intergrading populations. In this study, we document patterns of variation for fruit and seed characters among populations in southern Illinois, including one atypical, morphologically intergrading population. Different seed shapes help distinguish these taxa, both in southern Illinois and across their larger ranges. We also show that the intergrading population is significantly more variable than others, and describe the occurrence of such populations in other regions where these two taxa co-occur. These two results suggest that localized hybridization between these species may contribute to their complex taxonomic history.
23314663|The seaweed flora of Bras d'Or Lake, Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia is compared with those of the Baltic Sea in northern Europe and five Northwest Atlantic embayments ranging from Pomquet Harbour, Nova Scotia to Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island. Both Bras d'Or Lake and the Baltic Sea have experienced extensive geological and hydrographic changes during the past 15,000 years, which have resulted in limited connections to the open sea, negligible tides, low salinities, and reduced floras. The ecology of these two unique saltwater bodies differs from true estuaries like the York River of Maine, the Great Bay Estuary System of New Hampshire/Maine, and the Merrimack River of Massachusetts, which experience extreme hydrographic and tidal variability. Of the 309 total seaweed taxa recorded from the six Northwest Atlantic embayments, Bras d'Or Lake had the lowest number of red, brown, and green algae (i.e., 83) and shared taxa (mean 61.2  4.9 SE), whereas Narragansett Bay had the highest numbers of total (203) and shared taxa (mean 111.6  20.1 SE). Several taxa were restricted to single embayments, with a few glacial and limnic relicts occurring in Bras d'Or Lake and the Baltic Sea. Nine disjunct warm-water taxa were present in Bras d'Or Lake, with this representing the second highest numbers found in four embayments located north of Cape Cod, Massachusetts; this pattern reflects the characteristics of a shallow inland lake. Eleven introduced taxa were recorded from the various Northwest Atlantic embayments, ranging from two in Bras d'Or Lake to 310 in the other five embayments. The absence of an intertidal fucoid zone in the Lake (and the Baltic Sea) is probably associated with several physical factors, including a lack of tides, extensive ice-scouring, long-lasting atmospheric reductions of sea level, and reduced salinities. By contrast, the occurrence of subtidal fucoid algae within both brackish water habitats is probably due to a lack of strong competition from perennial kelp populations, which have limited tolerances to low salinities. Morphological features of attached submerged fucoids are analogous to those of loose-lying or entangled salt marsh forms, which are usually small, thin, profusely branched, and have extensive vegetative fragmentation. Unique aegagropilous (detached, ball-shaped) populations of Gracilaria tikvahiae also were found at some inland Bras d'Or Lake sites, presumably resulting from ice scouring and detachment.
23314661|We conducted a preliminary floristic study of six vernal pools in Acadia National Park on Mount Desert Island, Maine. Plant species were recorded on three sampling dates from April to October, 2008. Sixty-five vascular plant species from 26 families were recorded. Of these, 27 are considered occasional or uncommon in Acadia National Park: Thirteen species are new reports for vernal pools in the northeastern United States. This represents the first published study of the vernal pool flora of Acadia National Park.
23314660|Geranium dodecatheoides P.J. Alexander & Aedo (Geraniaceae), a new species from the Sierra Blanca in Lincoln Co., New Mexico, is described and illustrated. This new species is related to North American species of sect. Caespitosa R. Knuth, which have dichasial inflorescences and petals that are hairy on the adaxial surface. It is distinguished from other members of Caespitosa primarily by having narrow, reflexed petals.
23314709|A floristic survey of Lauderdale County, Mississippi was undertaken from the spring of 2004 through the fall of 2009 in order to document the flora and describe plant communities from this poorly studied region within Mississippi. A total of 1175 vascular plant species (1206 taxa altogether, including species and infraspecific taxa) was recorded from the county. Oenothera sinuosa and Geranium molle were collected for the first time in the state of Mississippi, and Carex breviculmis was recorded from North America for the first time. One hundred and eighty-six introduced species were recorded in the county. Forty-seven rare and uncommon species, according to the Mississippi Natural Heritage Program special plant tracking and watch lists, were recorded from Lauderdale County and many range extensions and species disjunctions were discovered. We describe nine primary plant communities in the county and discuss the biogeographical importance of the flora of Lauderdale County relative to the rest of the state.
23314710|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the taxa of Caryophyllidae growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. Of the 263 taxa treated (species, subspecies, varieties, and hybrids, but not forms), 261 are mapped based primarily on specimens in major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, with most data derived from the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in standard manuals and floras for the area, habitat, chromosome information, and common names are also provided.
23313236|The species placed in Paralychnophora by MacLeish are returned to the genus Eremanthus, and two related species, E. harleyi and E. santosii, are described as new.
23313235|Uncinia macrolepis and U. tenuis are reported for the first time from Colombia. Additionally, four new Colombian sites are recorded for U. paludosa, previously known from only a single site in the country. A key to the five Uncinia species known to occur in Colombia is provided.
23313234|Dot maps are provided to depict the distribution at the county level of the pteridophytes (Lycopodiophyta, Equisetophyta, Polypodiophyta) and gymnosperms (Coniferophyta) growing outside of cultivation in the six New England states of the northeastern United States. The 171 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties and hybrids, but not forms) are mapped at the county level based on specimens in the major herbaria of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut, with primary emphasis on the holdings of the New England Botanical Club Herbarium (NEBC). Brief synonymy to account for names used in recent manuals and floras for the area, habitat and chromosome information and common names also are provided.
23313258|We surveyed forests in Massachusetts to identify any remaining old-growth stands. We located twenty-eight tracts in western Massachusetts that met our criteria, with one additional site east of the Connecticut River. Hemlock and northern hardwoods in excess of 150200 years dominate most sites, which range in area from 328 ha. Most stands occur on steep slopes and may have escaped cutting due to their inaccessibility. Several potential sites remain to be investigated, but we do not expect that the total area of old-growth forests in Massachusetts will greatly exceed 260 ha. However, less stringent definitions of old growth may include additional sites and greater acreages. Data collected from 26 permanent vegetation monitoring plots provide comparisons with other forests. Basal areas in the old-growth stands are similar to other old-growth forests in New England, from 3442.8 m2/ha; values are only slightly higher than basal areas from nearby second growth forests of the same type. Densities of stems >10 cm dbh in the old-growth plots are 347480 trees/ha, 2540% lower than in second growth forests. No vascular plant species were encountered that were unique to the old-growth stands.
23313257|Ninety-seven taxa of seaweeds were collected from nine islands within the Penobscot Bay area of central Maine, including 25 Chlorophyceae, 34 Phaeophyceae, and 38 Rhodophyceae. The patterns of species richness and longevity (#annuals/#perennials) per island are highly variable, with species richness ranging from only 4 taxa on Allen I. to 65 on Wooden Ball I. (mean = 30.8  23.0 taxa) and longevity ratios varying from 0.331.0 (0.64  28.1). A total of 48 annuals and 49 perennials is recorded throughout the Bay, giving a longevity ratio of 0.98. This value is lower than that found at many open coastal habitats within the Gulf of Maine. An examination of historical collections by J. Hooper and F. S. Collins from the 1800s revealed three unusual coastal records (Stilophora rhizoides, Gracilaria tikvahiae, and Cladophora ruchingeri) and sixteen additional seaweeds that were not encountered in our study. Based upon these historical and present collections, as well as extensive sampling from more than 70 nearshore sites, a total of 139 seaweed taxa is known from the Penobscot Bay area, including 40 Chlorophyceae, 47 Phaeophyceae and 52 Rhodophyceae. In a comparison of seaweed floras from fourteen individual islands, from South Wolf I., New Brunswick, to Penikese I., Massachusetts (including a "composite" of Penobscot Bay Islands), 216 seaweed taxa are documented, including 52 Chlorophyceae, 63 Phaeophyceae, and 101 Rhodophyceae. The highest numbers of taxa occur at Smuttynose I., Maine (136), and Penikese I., Massachusetts (131), and the lowest on Wooden Ball I., Maine (65), Monhegan I., Maine (64), and Kent I., New Brunswick (63). Floristic affinities of individual islands tend to mimic patterns of species richness, with Smuttynose having the highest number of shared taxa (mean = 92.4  20.2) and Kent and Wooden Ball Islands the lowest numbers (mean = 50.8  5.2 and 53.9  6.2, respectively). The seaweed diversity of Penikese Island and nearby environs (187 taxa) is comparable to the entire Gulf of Maine.
23313256|This newly described variety of Heuchera micrantha is characterized by the presence of widely ovate petals, a cyathiform calyx, and in general, a taller inflorescence than the other varieties of H. micrantha. Clearly different from the other varieties of H. micrantha in the shape of the flower, in the greater width of the petal, and in having fewer flowers per lateral branch of the inflorescence, it appears to be distinct at the varietal level. The cyathiform calyx is not found in any other H. micrantha variety. The exserted stigmas and stamens, the size of the flower, the leaf shape, and indumentum are characters held in common with the other varieties of H. micrantha, which place this taxon within our circumscription of the species.
23313246|Hopewell Culture National Historical Park, a unit of the United States National Park Service located in Ross County in south central Ohio, was created to restore, protect, and interpret the legacy of the mound building Hopewell prehistoric peoples. The vascular flora of the park had been estimated to be only 20% known prior to the undertaking of this project. During the spring, summer, and fall of 1995, almost 700 plant specimens were collected by three investigators from five units of the park. Totals of 438 species, 281 genera, and 93 families of vascular plants were discovered, representing 40% of the flora of Ross County, and 17% of the flora of Ohio. Introduced species constituted 32% of the flora. Sixty-five species are new records for Ross County. Two species of special concern, Spiranthes ovalis and Eleocharis ovata, are on the state's threatened and endangered species list. The Hopewell unit had the highest plant diversity of the five units.
23313248|A long-term floristic study of the macroalgae, bryophytes, and vascular plants in the vicinity of Latimer Point, Stonington, New London County, Connecticut was made from 1969 to 1992. Four-hundred twenty-seven taxa were found including 30 marine macroalgae, 12 mosses, 10 ferns and fern allies, 1 conifer, and 374 flowering plants. Five species are reported as new to southeastern Connecticut: Cuscuta pentagona, Eschscholzia californica, Poa palustris, Stachys byzantina, and Viola priceana. Two species listed as endangered in Connecticut are known from the area, Angelica lucida and Ligusticum scothicum, and one species listed as of special concern, Honckenya peploides, is also present. Changes in composition of the terrestrial flora during the 25 year period include the invasion of Ailanthus altissima, Elaeagnus umbellata, and Paulownia tomentosa, an increase in populations of 14 exotic species, and the decline of six native species.
23313245|A set of 372 vegetation relevs was collected from coastal sandplain communities on Nantucket, Cape Cod, and Martha's Vineyard. Sites on Nantucket had the highest average number of rare species and the lowest number of non-native species. We used TWINSPAN to identify major vegetation types from these data. The first division separated the samples into heathlands and grasslands. Heathlands subsequently were classified into two major types: 1) Tall Shrub, including Huckleberry-Scrub Oak (Gaylussacia baccata-Quercus ilicifolia) and Mixed Maritime Shrublands (G. baccata, Myrica pensylvanica, and others), and 2) Low Shrub, including Broom Crowberry (Corema conradii) and Bearberry (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi) Heathlands. The two major grassland types were designated Hairgrass (Deschampsia flexuosa) and Little Bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium), after the dominant taxa. Hairgrass Grasslands included a Beach subtype often dominated by coastal species (Ammophila breviligulata, Hudsonia tomentosa), and a Heathy Grassland that includes many ericads and graminoids. Little Bluestem Grasslands were divided into several subtypes, including Weedy Grasslands with many introduced species, Pennsylvania Sedge Grasslands dominated by Carex pensylvanica, and High Diversity Native Sandplain Grasslands, which included many rare species, few exotics, and high species diversity. We discuss successional relationships among sandplain vegetation types.
23313247|The taxonomy of the Missouri members of the genus Scirpus sensu lato is discussed in light of recent classifications, and justifications are presented for segregating the 26 species into 5 genera: Scirpus sensu stricto, Schoenoplectus, Bolboschoenus, Isolepis, and Trichophorum. Nomenclature of the Missouri taxa is summarized. Three species (Isolepis molesta, Schoenoplectus mucronatus, and Schoenoplectus purshianus) and two putative hybrids (Schoenoplectus acutus  tabernaemontani and Schoenoplectus acutus  heterochaetus) are discussed as additions to the state's flora, and the status of three other recent additions (Schoenoplectus deltarum, Schoenoplectus saximontanus, and Scirpus pedicellatus) is updated.
23314071|The New England Plant Conservation Program (NEPCoP) regional rare plant list, "Flora Conservanda: New England," identifies vascular plant taxa in need of regional conservation. In 1993, NEPCoP established a Listing Committee consisting of representatives of each of the six state Natural Heritage Programs (NHPs) and additional scientists. The most current information on the rare vascular flora of each state, stored at the respective NHPs, was used as the basis of the NEPCoP List. The List comprises 576 taxa in five divisions: Division 1Globally Rare Taxa (57 taxa); Division 2Regionally Rare Taxa (273 taxa); Division 3Locally Rare Taxa (75 taxa); Division 4Historic Taxa (55 taxa); and Division Indeterminate (IND.)116 taxa.
23314720|A new variety of Sarracenia purpurea L. ssp. venosa (Raf.) Wherry is herein described as var. burkii. The variety is confined to the Gulf coastal plain and is characterized by pale pink to lavender petals and a white to pale green-white carpel, the umbraculate portion of the style being most apparent in this respect.
23314724|Morphological investigation of the Chamaesyce deltoidea complex demonstrates a lack of sharp boundaries between the taxa. In combination with distributional data, the observed patterns of morphological variation suggest that the complex is best treated as a single polymorphic species. New combinations are proposed for Chamaesyce pinetorum and C. adhaerens to provide a consistent treatment for the morphological groups within the complex. The current conservation status of each morphological group is reviewed.
23314719|Schiedeella romeroana Szlach., sp. nov., is newly described. It is distinguished by its lack of both rostellum and viscidium. The lip is distinctly divided into a rectangular hypochile with reduced basal auricles and a rounded epichile. It is compared with S. valerioi (Ames & Schweinf.) Szlach. & Scheviak, S. amesiana Garay and S. llaveana (Lindl.) Schlecht.
23314725|Potentilla robbinsiana Oakes ex Rydb. was first collected ca. 1824 by Thomas Nuttall on Monroe Flats in the Presidential Range of New Hampshire. Partly because the plant has always been rare, botanists have searched for, collected, studied, hiked past, propagated, and protected it. This paper documents botanical exploration, taxonomic interpretations, and historical status of P. robbinsiana populations. In the last 160 years, human interplay with P. robbinsiana has gone through roughly three phases of intense interest: discovery, collection and stewardship. In each period, human perceptions of, and reactions to, the rarity of this species have changed. The most significant human impact on the Monroe Flats plants was trail disturbance and zealous herbarium collection in the late 1800's. Even the cumulative removal of over 850 plants (equivalent to approximately half of the population) has not permanently affected the population size or distribution on Monroe Flats. Active conservation over the past 75 years has supplemented the natural resilience of the species. A second tiny and imperiled population on Franconia Ridge, discovered by Edward Tuckerman, Jr. ca. 1840, has never drawn much management or botanical interest.
23314721|Populations of Rhododendron albiflorum Hook. in Colorado are disjunct by ca. 1470 km from populations in the Pacific Northwest. Morphological data showed that plants from the two sets of populations differed in length and width of petals and length of stamens. Genetic identity figures based on analysis of isozyme electrophoresis found Colorado and Pacific Northwest populations to have an  value of .76. These morphological, geographical and isozymic data support recognition of the Colorado plants as Rhododendron albiflorum Hook. var. warrenii (A. Nelson) M. A. Lane, comb. & stat. nov.; the Pacific Northwest plants are Rhododendron albiflorum Hook. var. albiflorum.
23314723|Grasses traditionally assigned to Aristida stricta Michx. include two morphologically and geographically separate species. The name Aristida stricta Michx. corresponds to a taxon confined to North Carolina and the northern tier of counties in South Carolina. A second species, Aristida beyrichiana Trin. & Rupr., occurs from southern South Carolina south throughout Florida and west to Mississippi.
23312984|The second internal transcribed spacer (ITS-2) of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) was sequenced for the three phenotypes of Arisaema ringens (Araceae). These sequences were invariant, and are therefore not systematically informative. However, when considered along with the anatomical, morphological, cytological, and palynological data summarized here, the recognition of intraspecific taxa in A. ringens is not supported.
23312981|Eleocharis species unassigned by Svenson to the series level at the completion of his worldwide monograph were examined utilizing scanning electron microscopy. Acid treated achenes with their cuticle and outer periclinal cell walls removed revealed micro-morphological characters in support of assigning E. squamigera and E. subarticulata to the series Palustriformes, subseries Truncatae. Although the results failed to delegate unequivocally E. albida and E. melanocarpa, additional insight regarding their infrageneric relationship was obtained. An assessment of E. minarum proved to be impossible due to the absence of mature achenes.
23312990|During the last decade the discovery of a number of new plant localities have added additional species to the flora of New Hampshire. Most of those have been native plants, and the new sites are valued records for the data base on rare plants. Three of the additions reported here are aggressive weeds of aquatic habitats, a fourth is an introduction of exotic germ plasm in a wetland habitat. They are less than welcome additions to the flora of the state.
23312982|Three stations of Fragaria multicipita Fernald were rediscovered in the general area of the type locality along Rivire Ste.-Anne in Gasp, Qubec. This taxon has not been accepted as a species by a number of recent compilers and monographers, but the plants retained distinctive features under greenhouse cultivation suggesting that taxonomic recognition may be appropriate, although the appropriate rank is unclear. The distinctive features include small size, small almost stalkless leaflets and a multicipital, more or less runnerless caudex. The plants were confined to dry sandy or silty, open riverine bars. Study of living plants of F. multicipita may help to further elucidate the nature of endemism in northeastern North America. It will also contribute additional information relevant to the classification of strawberries, this in turn providing the information needed for optimal germplasm protection and for increasing the low genetic diversity of strawberries cultivated in North America. Where F. multicipita occurs there is substantial variation in native species of Fragaria, and in situ as well as ex situ protection is desirable.
23312988|Miconia stenobotrys, a member of section Chaenopleura, is considered to constitute a species from a phenetic as well as a phylogenetic standpoint. It occurs widely in the Cordillera Central/Massif du Nord of Hispaniola, growing mainly in forests dominated by Pinus occidentalis. The species is circumscribed broadly, including M. azuensis, M. artibotinensis, M. buchii, and M. leptoneura, as well as populations with very prominently 4-flanged stems from the Parque Nacional Jos del Carmen Ramrez/Loma la Vieja region of the Dominican Republic. A revised description and an illustration are provided, and a list of specimen citations is presented. Miconia stenobotrys is distinguished from its presumed closest relatives, i.e., M. krugii, M. samanensis, and M. zanonii, by its falcate leaves that are slightly to strongly V-folded along the midvein and distinctive elongated inflorescences. It is quite variable in several morphological features, especially in extent of development of U-shaped stem flanges, number of multicellular, long-stalked, gland-headed hairs on the stems and leaves, degree of toothing of the leaf margin, placement of secondary veins of the lamina, and flower size. However, no phenetic discontinuities were discerned among analyzed specimens, and the above listed characters often vary within populations.
23312991|Twenty-three species of Chamaesyce are presently known to grow in Florida. A new key to the Florida species is presented along with notes on taxonomically important morphological characters in the genus and a review of the various names applied to each species.
23312989|Tillandsia fasciculata var. fasciculata is recorded for the first time in Florida. It may be distinguished from the common T. fasciculata var. densispica by longer inflorescence branches and larger floral bracts.
23312987|A total of 72 seaweed taxa were recorded from the York River Estuary, Maine, including 29 Rhodophyceae, 19 Phaeophyceae and 24 Chlorophyceae. A synopsis of several distributional patterns is given, as well as floristic comparisons of the York River with two nearby open coastal sites in Maine (Cape Neddick and Sea Point) and 12 estuarine locations within New Hampshire and northern Massachusetts. In contrast to the Great Bay Estuarine System (New Hampshire/Maine) where coastal species occur upstream to approximately 8.5 miles, a relatively rapid attrition of species occurs within the York River after 23 miles, presumably due to hydrographic variability, the dominance of saltmarsh habitats and reduced availability of rocky substrata. Overall, species composition within the York River compares favorably with several mid-estuarine environments within the Great Bay Estuary as well as saltmarsh habitats of the Hampton-Seabrook Estuary System (New Hampshire). Relatively few of the "southerly" taxa common to the Great Bay Estuary are present within the York River and Hampton-Seabrook Estuary, presumably because of a lack of suitable habitat. Three floristic records of particular interest include the presence of Fucus vesiculosus megecad limicola from the York River Estuary, and the occurrence of Porphyra amplissima and Codium fragile ssp. tomentosoides from southern Maine.
23312985|Canonical variates analysis was used as an analytical technique to document morphological discontinuities among individuals of Antennaria media (n = 63), A. pulvinata (n = 103), A. rosea (n = 64) and A. umbrinella (n = 65). Evaluation of the defined classification criterion indicated that 94% of the specimens were classified correctly. The classification criterion was subsequently used to classify type collections of A. aromatica (n = 26) into one of the previously defined groups. Results based on these analyses as well as previously published information demonstrate that A. aromatica and A. pulvinata are morphologically indistinguishable. The analyses also indicate that A. pulvinata and A. rosea exhibit morphological integrity relative to each other and would best be treated as distinct species. The four species, A. media, A. pulvinata, A. rosea and A. umbrinella, exhibit morphological integrity and should be treated as distinct. A list of synonymy is provided for A. pulvinata.
23312983|Chromosome numbers are reported for 333 individuals of 109 taxa and two interspecific hybrids from among 11 genera. The vast majority of the reports are for Aster sensu lato and Solidago. Many counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; approximately one third of the counts are first reports for a taxon, or ploidy level of a taxon, in one or more of the 26 states of the eastern United States and one Canadian province sampled. The cytogeography and cytotaxonomy of the Aster pilosus, Solidago stricta and S. uliginosa complexes are discussed. The following first reports are included: Aster attenuatus, 2n = 48; A. surculosus, 2n = 36; Solidago latissimifolia, 2n = 18II, 2n = 36, 2n = 27II, 2n = 54; S. patula var. strictula, 2n = 9II; S. pulchra, 2n = 18II.
23312980|The genus Arctomecon Torr. & Frem. is reviewed, its three species, A. humilis Coville, A. californica Torr. & Frem., and A. merriamii Coville, are provided with a diagnostic key, described, and discussions of their peculiar habitat requirements and other pertinent information are included.
23312993|This paper includes the results of investigations leading to a revision of A Utah Flora by Welsh, Atwood, Goodrich, and Higgins, a publication whose first edition published in 1987 is now out of print. The following new taxa and nomenclatural combinations are proposed, based on plants from Utah and from northern Arizona: Mertensia lanceolata (Pursh) DC. var. coriacea (A. Nels.) Higgins & Welsh, comb. nov.; Arenaria rubella (Wahl) J. E. Sm. var. filiorum (Maguire) Welsh, comb. nov.; Zuckia brandegei (Gray) Welsh & Stutz var. plummeri (Stutz & Sanderson) Welsh, comb. nov.; Ambrosia sandersonii Welsh, sp. nov.; Agoseris glauca (Pursh) Raf. var. cronquistii Welsh, var. nov.; Artemisia campestris L. var. petiolata Welsh, var. nov.; Haplopappus lignumviridis Welsh, sp. nov.; Hymenoxys acaulis (Pursh) Parker var. nana Welsh, var. nov.; Senecio castoreus Welsh, sp. nov.; Senecio musiniensis Welsh, sp. nov.; Erigeron sionis Cronq. var. trilobatus (Maguire) Welsh, comb. nov.; Lygodesmia grandiflora (Nutt.) T. & G. var. doloresensis (Tomb) Welsh, comb. nov.; Lygodesmia grandiflora (Nutt.) T. & G. var. entrada (Welsh & Goodrich) Welsh, comb. nov.; Lepidium montanum Nutt. var. claronensis Welsh, var. nov.; Phacelia cronquistiana Welsh, sp. nov.; Phacelia pulchella Gray var. atwoodii Welsh, var. nov.; Astragalus toanus Jones var. scidulus Welsh & Atwood, var. nov.; Astragalus zionis Jones var. vigulus Welsh, var. nov.; Pediomelum aromaticum (Payson) W. A. Weber var. barnebyi Welsh, var. nov.; Trifolium friscanum (Welsh) Welsh, comb. nov.; Mentzelia goodrichii Thorne & Welsh, sp. nov.; Camissonia bairdii Welsh, sp. nov.; Camissonia claviformis (Torr. & Frem.) Raven var. cruciformis (Kellogg) Welsh, stat. nov.; Gilia latifolia Wats. var. imperialis Welsh, var. nov.; Eriogonum corymbosum Wats. var. albiflorum (Reveal) Welsh, comb. nov.; Eriogonum corymbosum var. atwoodii (Reveal) Welsh, comb. nov.; Eriogonum jamesii Benth. var. higginsii Welsh, var. nov.; Eriogonum racemosum Nutt. var. nobilis Welsh & Atwood, var. nov.; Aquilegia grahamii Welsh & Goodrich, sp. nov.; Penstemon franklinii Welsh, sp. nov.; Penstemon humilis Nutt. var. desereticus Welsh, var. nov.; Yucca vespertina (McKelvey) Welsh, comb. et stat. nov.; Allium geyeri Wats. var. chatterleyi Welsh, var. nov.; Spiranthes romanzoffiana Cham. var. diluvialis (Sheviak) Welsh, comb. nov.
23312986|The genus Pelexia Poit. ex Lindl. occurs in the tropics and subtropics of both Americas: from Argentina in the south to Mexico and Florida in the north. According to Garay (1982) it contains 67 species. Pelexia is distinguishable from closely related Sarcoglottis Presl by an "externally observable line of adnation" between ovary and lateral sepals. While studying herbarium materials from COL, P and S, I found some specimens which did not fit the diagnoses of any previously known species. They are described here for the first time.
23312992|William T. Gillis (193379) became interested in the Bahama flora while conducting field research for his Ph.D. His interest intensified from 1968 to 1972 during his appointment as taxonomist and herbarium curator at the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Miami, Florida, U.S.A. He made many collecting trips to the Bahama Islands, and in 1970, in collaboration with Richard A. Howard of Harvard University and George R. Proctor of the Institute of Jamaica, proposed to revise The Bahama Flora that Britton and Millspaugh had published in 1920. Although their NSF proposal was not funded, Gillis continued his work on the Bahama flora, as a Mercer Research Fellow at Harvard University, then as a Visiting Assistant Professor at Hope College, Holland, Michigan, and finally as Assistant Professor at Michigan State University, East Lansing. His publications for revisions of The Bahama Flora appeared between 1973 and 1977. Gillis' death in 1979, at the age of 45, prevented his completion of this valuable contribution to Bahamian natural history. A comprehensive summary of his contributions to the study of the Bahama flora is presented.
23312964|For nearly a century since its description, Eleocharis macounii Fernald has been known with certainty only from the type station in Qubec. It has been treated as a synonym of either Eleocharis intermedia Schultes, E. obtusa (Willd.) Schultes, E. ovata (Roth) R. & S. or E. palustris (L.) R. & S., or as a hybrid. Various quantitative and qualitative morphological features suggest that it is a hybrid involving E. intermedia in series Palustriformes and E. obtusa in series Ovatae. Eleocharis  macounii is best distinguished from sympatric species by its rhizome internodes less than 2 mm long, presence of many culms of varying lengths arising from a single tuft and pale greenish-brown achenes with prominent keels and a rough cellular surface. This natural hybrid is of particular interest since it is the first reported in the genus Eleocharis in North America, and it involves different species groups within the genus.
23312968|Isoetes prototypus Britton, an endemic of the Atlantic Maritime Ecozone of Northeastern North America, is reported for the first time in the United States from Acadia National Park, Maine. It is a rare species throughout its range, being known elsewhere (in Atlantic Canada) from only five populations. For reasons of site requirements and possibly dispersal limitations, Isoetes prototypus is unlikely to be found in the United States away from the coastal region of Maine. It warrants designation as Critically Imperiled (G1S1) throughout its range.
23312972|Cuscuta glomerata Choisy is a distinctive species largely confined to the central and midwestern prairie region. It was noted as extirpated in Ohio in 1988 (the last collection dating from 1933). Since 1989 five stations for the species in Ohio have been located. All are associated with prairie remnants which have, in recent years, been subjected to regular controlled burning. It is suggested that fire is essential to rupture the seed coat and stimulate germination.
23312965|A more than decade-long field investigation of the genus Vaucheria in Connecticut salt marshes and estuarine habitats has revealed the presence of nine species, including five species and a variety not previously known for the area: V. arcassonensis, V. compacta var. koksoakensis, V. coronata, V. intermedia, V. minuta, and V. nasuta. Culture conditions in the laboratory stimulated production of gametangia, allowing for identification of mostly vegetative field-collected samples in their native muds. All marine and brackish water species of Vaucheria previously reported from other parts of New England are now known from Long Island Sound.
23312971|A new record for the vascular flora of Colorado is reported. Subularia aquatica L. was found growing on a muddy, subalpine lake bottom in north-central Colorado during the field season of 1992. This extends its previously known range in the Southern Rocky Mountains by approximately 220 miles (354 km) to the east from the Utah localities and 270280 miles (435450 km) southeastward from its Wyoming localities.
23312969|A high level of achene sterility, non-exserted anthers, and intermediacy in qualitative and quantitative characters support the recognition of plants from the shore of Wendigo Lake in northern Ontario as Carex castanea  C. debilis, a new natural hybrid. This new taxon has prominent leaf pubescence like C. castanea, but relatively narrow leaves (less than 2.5 mm wide as in narrow-leaved specimens of C. debilis). The floral density of the spike and many other characters are more or less intermediate. This hybrid is probably scarce because of the evident edaphic isolation of its parents. A key and description are included.
23312970|Thomas Francis Lucy (18441906) was an eclectic medical doctor who devoted most of his life to studying the plants of the Susquehanna Valley, specifically the Chemung River Valley, Chemung County, New York. He also spent his later life collecting and exchanging specimens of North American plants. The main collection of the Flora of the Upper Susquehanna that he prepared for the Elmira Academy of Sciences is currently housed at ECH. Other specimens collected by Lucy are located at BH-CU, NYS, NY, F, US, and MIN. After his death, many of his North American specimens were deposited in BUF. These are currently being curated at ECH.
23312966|Vaucheria subsimplex Crouan has been collected from a salt marsh at Gloucester, Massachusetts. This report appears to be the first citation of this species in the United States, and it is the second in North America. At Gloucester, Vaucheria subsimplex and V. velutina occur as a "zone" at MHW in the mud of tidal creek banks, these algae forming gametangia throughout the summer. Ecological observations of the Gloucester material compare favorably with similar data about V. subsimplex from European and Scandinavian salt marshes.
23312973|Portulaca oleracea L. is a polyploid, cosmopolitan weed with a broad physiological adaptability. It is morphologically variable, grows rapidly, is self-compatible producing large numbers of seeds that have a long survivability. The variability is expressed in a series of local populations that exhibit clinal variation geographically. Data obtained from the literature on the biology of the species are compared to previous taxonomic interpretations in order to develop a more functional taxonomic treatment of this polymorphic species.
41784748|Eight yellow-flowered species of Sedum of the western United States, S. lanceolatum, S. borschii, S. debile, S. divergens, S. leibergii, S. radiatum, S. rupicolum, and S. stenopetalum, all have a basic chromosome number of 8 and are believed to comprise a natural group. A ninth species, S. oreganum, is cytologically distinct with n = 12, and it seems taxonomically more isolated. Sedum lanceolatum includes widespread diploids, tetraploids and hexaploids. Sedum rupicolum is tetraploid, S. stenopetalum is octoploid, and S. borschii is often (always?) irregular at meiosis and may be a polyploid hybrid. All the remaining species are diploid. Polyploidy seems to be an important isolating mechanism between taxa when plants of two or more of these species occur together.
23314299|Phyllanthus caymanensis Webster & Proctor is described from specimens collected in the Cayman Islands. This species resembles Mesoamerican species such as P. mcvaughii and P. mocinianus rather than any of the West Indian taxa of sect. Nothoclema. It is the first endemic species of sect. Nothoclema recorded from the West Indies.
23314301|Croomia pauciflora (Nuttall) Torrey is an endemic to the southeastern United States. Documented distribution includes the following states and physiographic regions: Ridge & Valley, Cumberland Plateau, Piedmont Plateau, and Gulf Coastal Plain of Alabama; Piedmont Plateau, and Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plain of Georgia; and the Gulf Coastal Plain of Florida and Louisiana. Croomia pauciflora is a rare element of the southeastern flora and is considered an "endangered" or "threatened" species in portions of its range. A neotype is designated due to the apparent loss of the single specimen cited in the original description.
23314302|Ironwood, Ostrya virginiana (Miller) K. Koch, an Alleghanian species, reaches the northeastern limit of its range in northern Nova Scotia. The species is in a vigorous condition and widely distributed in the region, but normally reflects low density of stocking. Notable silvical characteristics of ironwood in northern Nova Scotia include high tolerance, wide ecological amplitude, vitality and aggressiveness.
23314300|Chaptalia transiliens Nesom, a new species from Mexico, is described and assigned to Chaptalia sect. Leria; notes on its distribution and phenology are given.
23314303|One hundred forty-two species of Carex are recorded for Minnesota, 4 of which have not been previously reported. Because four floristic provinces converge in Minnesota, certain groups of carices tend to be associated with specific geographic areas of the state. A map is presented that divides Minnesota into 9 areas of Carex affiliation, each of which is briefly discussed. Our carices also display other, more subtle and local, distributional patterns, and we demonstrate, through various examples, that many carices are greatly affected by the nature of the substrate in which they grow. Habitat descriptions for the 142 species are given in an annotated list, and for some carices additional taxonomic, phytogeographical and ecological comments are made. Distribution maps are presented, and for the 4 carices new to the state, representative collections are noted. Doubtful and excluded taxa are indicated and discussed.
23311241|An abbreviated revision of the Mexican representatives of the genus Halenia Brckh. (Gentianaceae) is provided. Descriptions, comments and distribution data with citation of some of the examined specimens is presented for the twelve species known to occur in Mexico. Two new species, Halenia alleniana and H. crumiana, are validated.
23311242|Eighteen species of Cerastium are known to occur in Mexico and Central America, including 16 native and two alien species. The limits of these species are described and their taxonomy is revised. Three species are newly described.
23311244|Vegetation in an eastern Massachusetts freshwater cat-tail marsh was measured over a five-year period, two years before and three years after construction of a 345 kv transmission line; no change in vegetation occurred because of the construction.
23311240|Nine species, with no infraspecific taxa, are recognized in Arnica subgenus Austromontana, a group primarily restricted to montane western North America. Previous treatments, which have variously recognized several infraspecific taxa, radiate and discoid sections, and two subgenera for these nine species, are viewed as artificial. Chromosome counts, all based on x = 19, are reported for 74 populations representing seven of the species. A discussion of comparative features, phylogenetic relationships, distribution maps, descriptions, synonymies and a key to the species are presented.
23311243|A new endemic, Ziziphus celata, is described from the xerophytic scrub and pinelands of the Lake Wales Ridge in peninsular Florida. This distinctive geniculate-thorny shrub shows clear affinity with the arid, southwestern North American "Condaliopsis group" of Ziziphus, and represents a significant eastward range extension for this group. The native vegetation of the Lake Wales Ridge has been extensively destroyed, and the plant is represented only by a single specimen collected by Ray Garrett in 1948 near Sebring, Highlands County, Florida. The species is very likely now extinct.
23314632|Potamogeton hillii Morong has been considered as either a rare or endangered species in all states and provinces where it occurs. Currently it is under review by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for possible listing under the Endangered Species Act of 1973. Prior to 1960 it was collected at 25 localities. Since 1970, 78 new localities have been discovered. Throughout its range this species is mostly found in regions of limestone bedrock. Presently it is most abundant in western New England and northern Michigan, and during 1982 was relocated in Connecticut and Ohio. Potamogeton hillii appears to be spreading in the limestone regions where it presently occurs. This taxon is found growing in clear, cold waters of small streams, ponds, and beaver ponds with muddy substrates. The abundant winter buds and fruits produced apparently guarantee the continued spread of this species. Potamogeton hillii should not be considered further for protection nationally, nor should it be so listed in the states where locally abundant.
23314626|Many habitats of the text of the Flora boreali-americana of A. Michaux (1803), which is presumed to have been anonymously authored by L. C. M. Richard, have been observed to vary, sometimes drastically, from the field stations on the labels of the type specimens collected by Michaux. Since the field stations are the actual type localities rather then those given in the text, it is important to record them to promote precision in the use of the Michaux flora. A key to the IDC 6211 microfiche set of the Michaux American specimens, which are in the Paris Museum of Natural History, has been devised because the microfiches were found awkward to use. Each non-superfluous name proposed by Michaux is listed and its microfiche key designation is equivalent to an annotation of the specimen as the type.
23314628|Morphologic variation in Aristida purpurescens, A. tenuispica, and A. virgata was assessed by principal components and step-wise discriminant analyses. Although well-defined clusters corresponding to the three taxa were defined by principal component analysis (PCA), extensive morphologic overlap was also evident. Both the PCA and discriminant analyses assigned some spikelets from the same panicle to different taxa. A single morphologic species is suggested.
23314627|Ten species and one hybrid are here reported as new or from additional sites in Cape Breton Highlands National Park. The hybrid Solidago bicolor  S. canadensis is reported for the first time.
23314629|Gratiola viscidula Pennell was separated into two subspecies by Pennell (1935): G. viscidula subsp. viscidula, and G. viscidula subsp. shortii Durand ex Pennell. The latter subspecies, which was distinguished by its larger corollas, calyces, and leaves, was only known from southeastern Ohio and from an unspecified site in Kentucky. Examinations of herbarium specimens and field populations have demonstrated that the sizes of various plant parts are highly variable, both within individual populations and throughout the range of the species. Infraspecific categories are unwarranted. The chromosome number of the species is here first reported as n = 7.
23314631|Nine of 260 species of the Eurasian genus Verbascum have been reported from America; only two (V. thapsus and V. blattaria) are common. Verbascum densiflorum is well established in the U.S. only in southeast Wisconsin where it is an aggressive weed. It differs morphologically, phenologically and ecologically from either V. thapsus or V. phlomoides, the two more common species which it superficially resembles.
23314081|The hybrid Spiranthes steigeri Correll has been re-examined and found to be referable to S. ochroleuca (Rydb.) Rydb., a recently re-established species. Synonymy of the hybrid with S. ochroleuca is proposed.
23314080|The orchid genera Broughtonia R. Br., Cattleyopsis Lem. and Laeliopsis Lindl. are re-established on the basis of observations of natural populations or living material from them. The six species that comprise these genera were previously placed in the genus Broughtonia. A new combination, Cattleyopsis cubensis (Lindl.) Sauleda and Adams and a new natural hybrid, Broughtonia jamaicensis, are reported.
23314076|The first New York State records for gametophytes of the fern genus Vittaria are reported from Cattaraugus and Chautauqua Counties. The Chautauqua Co. station is only the third in a glaciated area and is the northernmost location known. The stations cited also provide the first county records in western New York for Trichomanes gametophytes.
23314075|Chromosome numbers are reported for two closely related species from the deciduous forest region of eastern North America, Stellaria pubera Michx. (2n = 30) and S. corei Shinners (2n = 60). These counts represent a new basic chromosome number of 15 for the genus Stellaria.
23314074|The herb floras of swamp forests in three of four large Connecticut River oxbows in western Massachusetts have been described and compared. The herb stratum at Hatfield includes a lush growth of annual and perennial herbs, lianas, and emergent marsh species, but no seedlings of the dominant canopy tree, Populus deltoides. Composition of the herb stratum in Ned's Ditch, Northampton, forest was found to vary markedly during four years of sampling. Seedlings of major canopy species at Ned's Ditch increased steadily through successive years while abundance of floating hydrophytes fluctuated strongly. Ferns and spring-blooming herbs predominated in the herb stratum at Whately which also contained seedlings of all canopy species. Of the herbaceous species sampled, 70% occurred only at one site. An argument is made that floodplain forest, severely limited in New England, should be more stringently protected.
23314078|A large population of Panax quinquefolium from New York is characterized by age structure, morphology, and flowering. Population dynamics are correlated with local climate, the most interesting association being the dramatic increase in population size during 1982 when monthly precipitations between January and June compared favorably with 20year averages at a time when the need for protective snow cover for seeds and optimum conditions for seed germination would apparently be paramount.
23314077|Two herbaceous plant species, Lomatogonium rotatum and Primula laurentiana, are known to occur in the United States only on the offshore islands of eastern Maine. Both species grow in full sun and in thin, circumneutral soil just above the upper splash zone of the ocean. We report new localities and discuss the overall geographic distribution for these two species.
23314079|A permanent 300-foot triangular transect was installed by H. E. Woodin in 1957 immediately above timberline on the isolated west slope of the summit cone of Mount Marcy, elevation 5334 feet, highest peak in the Adirondack Mountains of northern New York State. Re-measurement of the transect in 1981 revealed only slight change in either the floristic composition of the transect or in the percentage of arctic species present. Minor differences in data appear to be caused by different personnel performing the measurements or by sampling error inherent in the line-intercept procedures.
23314082|The annual vetches Vicia ludoviciana Nutt. ex T. & G., V. leavenworthii T. & G., V. exigua Nutt. ex T. & G., and their varieties compose the native North American V. ludoviciana complex. The center of diversity is Texas; distribution is from Alabama to California, and from northern Mexico into the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Karyotypes, artificial hybridizations, characteristics of the breeding system, and various morphological data are used with previously reported edaphic relationships and seed morphology to establish relationships reported herein. This taxonomic treatment reduces the taxa of the complex to 1 wide-ranging and variable species, consisting of 1 subspecies containing 5 geographical races, and a second subspecies containing 2 races.
23314083|A revision based on herbarium study of the six species of Kyllinga occurring in Mexico and Central America is presented. Each species is described and discussed. Distribution maps, a key to the species, and a detailed discussion of taxonomically useful characters in the genus are included.
23313510|Floristic inventories of lakes in northern Indiana have resulted in the documentation of 22 new localities for eight Indiana state-listed aquatic plant species. Six of these eight species are listed as endangered (Bidens beckii, Myriophyllum pinnatum, Najas gracillima, Potamogeton epihydrus, P. pulcher, and P. vaseyi) and two are listed as extirpated (Lemna valdiviana and P. bicupulatus). Many of these species are listed in other states within the Great Lakes region. Each species is discussed in terms of notable characters useful in identification, historical and current information on distribution, and notes on the ecology and species associates for each new site record. Possible explanations for the rarity of these aquatic plant species are discussed in terms of habitat loss, undercollecting, and the "Prairie Peninsula" concept. A brief discussion of problems associated with aquatic plant conservation in the state of Indiana is provided.
23313509|Two hundred and thirty-six species and hybrids of vascular plants are listed as new records for Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and twenty-four of these taxa constitute new Ohio records. Three taxa are first reported for North America. Approximately 39% of the 236 taxa are native to the northeastern United States. Twenty listed species are designated by the Ohio Division of Natural Areas and Preserves as presumed extirpated, endangered, threatened, or potentially threatened, collectively. The abundance of new records is surprising and explanations are proposed.
23313511|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Myriophyllum L. (Haloragaceae) from China is presented. The distribution patterns of the species are generalized. Seven species have traditionally been recorded from China: M. aquaticum, M. dicoccum, M. humile, M. spicatum, M. tetrandrum, M. ussuriense, and M. verticillatum. Previous identifications of M. humile are incorrect and the species that occurs in China is M. dicoccum. Specimens previously assigned to "M. spicatum" can better be assigned to two distinct taxa, M. spicatum sensu stricto and M. sibiricum. Newly recorded species are: M. alterniflorum, M. heterophyllum, M. oguraense, M. sibiricum, and M. tuberculatum. Comments, descriptions, additional notes, specimen citations, distribution, diagnoses, and a key for the Chinese taxa of Myriophyllum are provided. The native species of this genus exhibit both strong warm/cool temperate affinities and tropical affinities. Four distribution patterns are generalized as follows: 1. Old World Tropics (3 species), 2. Old World Temperate (1 species), 3. North Temperate (4 species), and 4. East Asia endemics (1 species).
23313508|I recorded the extant vascular flora of Worcester, Massachusetts in seven years of field work beginning in 1994 and obtained historical records from herbarium specimens and the published literature. A detailed vascular flora of the City was published elsewhere. This paper updates the flora with information from an important and previously overlooked collection of specimens, and examines the apparent historic losses of native species in relation to habitat and taxonomy. Overall species losses were about 18% in the past century. Losses were particularly high among species associated with aquatic habitats, bogs, and calcareous or circumneutral terrestrial habitats. I suggest that the first of these reflects extensive alteration of many bodies of water through siltation, chemical pollution, eutrophication, and stream channelization. Losses in the remaining two habitat types may reflect the initial rarity of such habitats within the City combined with habitat destruction. Losses were especially high in several families, including the Orchidaceae, Ophioglossaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Menyanthaceae, Lentibulariaceae, and Lamiaceae. High losses of aquatic and bog species have been noted in other areas, and high losses among orchids appear to be nearly universal. A combination of changing land use, habitat fragmentation, successional changes, species introductions, and climate changes are likely to cause further species losses in the decades ahead.
23313545|Boltonia decurrens (Asteraceae), a plant species endemic to the Illinois River Valley, is threatened with extinction. Alterations of the hydrologic regime of the river have resulted in habitat loss and population decline. Lack of information about the complex life cycle of this species frustrates efforts to develop an effective recovery plan. An essential part of any recovery plan is an understanding of seed germination, seedling recruitment, and early growth, and how each contributes to the maintenance of a population. In B. decurrens, the dimorphic achenes have different masses and may provide different dispersal mechanisms. This study examined the effect of achene morphology and mass on seed germination and early seedling growth of B. decurrens under controlled environmental conditions. There was no difference in timing of germination of disk and ray achenes in B. decurrens; however, there was a distinct difference in early growth of seedlings derived from disk versus ray achenes and from larger ray achenes compared to smaller ones. Disk achenes, which produced seedlings with more leaf area during the first 10-15 days, may provide a competitive advantage over those produced by ray achenes. Since leaf area and photosynthetic rates are closely correlated, seedlings with more leaf area early in their development may also be more competitive with seedlings of other species.
23313548|A floristic inventory of the vascular plants of Manatee Springs State Park in Levy County, Florida, was conducted from May 1996 to December 1998. In the 933 ha (2305 acres) park, a total of 360 species was found. The vascular flora comprised 8 ferns, 1 cycad, 6 conifers, and 345 angiosperm species representing 90 families and 241 genera. Twelve natural communities are recognized in the park in addition to ruderal and developed areas: upland mixed forest, xeric hammock, sinkhole, sinkhole lake, swamp lake, basin swamp, bottomland forest, depression marsh, floodplain swamp, floodplain forest, blackwater stream, and spring-run stream.
23313546|We conducted experimental pollination and seed germination trials with Platanthera leucophaea, a threatened north temperate grassland orchid species for which propagation and restoration are important conservation needs. Our objectives were to determine how the species' breeding system and modes of pollination interact to affect production of viable seed and seed germination, and how seed germination responds to stratification and to inoculation by mycorrhizal fungi. Outcrossing by hand pollination produced a higher percentage of viable seed than did natural pollination, as did outcrossing between populations in comparison to outcrossing or selfing within populations, indicating a facultative outcrossing breeding system. Outcrossing also enhanced percent germination, which was positively correlated with the percentage, but not number, of viable seeds. A 16 wk. stratification period resulted in significantly higher percent germination than 8 wk. stratification or no stratification. Germination was further enhanced by inoculation with a mycorrhizal fungus (Ceratorhiza sp.) isolated from P. leucophaea. These results indicate that the breeding system of P. leucophaea allows for greater numbers of viable seeds with greater germination rates when plants are outcrossed. Thus, hand pollination and outcrossing can enhance propagation and restoration efforts, especially when coupled with scarification and stratification treatments that maximize germination rates.
23313547|The protologue of Myrica caroliniensis is more than adequate to identify it as depicting the bayberry ranging at least from southern New Jersey to Florida and westward into eastern Texas. That species has been mostly known for the past half century as M. heterophylla. The alleged differences between the commonly recognized and more northern populations known most recently as M. pensylvanica (presumably ranging from Newfoundland at least into northeastern North Carolina) are that the southern elements have more persistent to even evergreen leaves and lack the minute trichomes on both the hardened fruit wall and the young glandular projections or papillae that completely cover the young to just maturing fruit of the northern representatives. The pubescence on the fruit cannot be readily detected on mature fruit due to its heavy deposit of wax. The alleged differences, which seem to be more like tendencies than sharply delineated differences, are not of specific significance any more than those suggested between the northern and southern populations of Magnolia virginiana. The name for the bayberry that ranges from Newfoundland south into Florida and westward into eastern Texas should therefore be Myrica caroliniensis, the binomial by which it was known throughout most of the nineteenth century. It has been rather conclusively demonstrated that the waxy fruited, papillate species ought to be placed in the genus Morella, clearly separate from the genus Myrica with the latter's smooth, non-papillate, non-waxy nutlet.
23313573|Desmodium humifusum, one of the rarest members of the New England flora, always occurs with two conspecifics, D. paniculatum and D. rotundifolium, and a hybrid origin for D. humifusum has been proposed. Protein (allozyme) electrophoresis was used to test this hypothesis. Allozyme data demonstrated that the extant D. humifusum populations totaled eight genetic individuals rather than the 100+ previously estimated. The Rogers genetic similarity between the putative parental species was 0.797 and they were fixed for different alleles at a single locus, Tpi-1. All but one individual of D. humifusum were heterozygous at this locus, combining alleles unique to both of the putative parental species. Desmodium humifusum exhibited excess heterozygosity (relative to Hardy-Weinberg expectations), in sharp contrast to the consistent heterozygote deficiency in the parental species. Desmodium humifusum consists of both F1 interspecific hybrids, as well as later-generation hybrids; introgression between the parental species was not obvious.
23313575|Flowers of Limonium carolinianum are harvested for use in dried flower arrangements and various crafts. The increasing commercialization of this harvest has led to concerns regarding its sustainability. We quantified the extent of the harvest on four marshes on the Bay of Fundy coast of Nova Scotia, Canada. Over a four-year period from 1996 to 1999, flower stalk removal averaged 32% on easily accessible portions of these marshes (i.e., within 100 m of a road) compared to 5% on inaccessible portions (greater than 500 m from a road). In 5  5 m plots where flowers were experimentally removed, no seedlings emerged the following year, whereas seedlings always emerged in unpicked control plots. This rapid and dramatic impact of localized harvesting on seedling emergence is due to the limited dispersal and short life span of L. carolinianum seeds. Sampling in concentric circles around isolated adults revealed that 50% of seedlings emerged within 34 cm of the parent and 90% emerged within 61 cm. Tethered seed experiments revealed that seeds that did not germinate in the first spring after production did not survive to the next spring. Our results suggest that unregulated harvesting has the potential to dramatically impact recruitment into local populations. To reduce the likelihood of local extinction we recommend that harvesters do not reduce flower stalk densities below 1 per m2.
23313572|Five vascular plant surveys have been made between 1873 and 1999 on Penikese, one of the Elizabeth Islands (Massachusetts). The five surveys have noted a total of 326 species, the most recent survey, 218 species. Almost half of the species noted are alien on all five survey lists. Four rare (state-listed) native species were found in 19981999. The most significant change in the island's vegetation over 125 years is the great increase in woody vines and shrubs following cessation of the farming that stripped the island of its presettlement forest. Fifteen woody species, some of them recent introductions, are thought to be increasing. Two of the island's pondsTubs and Southare brackish, supratidal pools without vascular plants. Four pondsNorth, Leper, Tern, and Typhaare fresh, shallow, and usually dry up annually, at which time their bottoms support a dense, diverse flora. Salt marsh species and numbers are fewer than formerly. There is evidence that the island as plant habitat is drier than in the past, perhaps as a result of the increase in woody vegetation. For instance, ferns, once common on Penikese, are now almost wholly absent. Certain species common on nearby islands are missing; for instance, no blueberries or other ericads are found on Penikese. In the absence of further disturbance, it is possible that Penikese will again become forested with red cedar (Juniperus virginiana) as a presettlement account of 1602 describes it, but island-wide burns are suggested for destroying invasive woody plants and encouraging native grasses. Such burns might also restore former tern-nesting sites to usefulness.
23313574|Described as new is Astragalus pulsiferae var. coronensis. This new variety is distinguished by its superficial root crown and longer pod trichomes, as well as by more subtle differences in the type of internode pubescence. In addition, the stipules in the new variety are all distinct, correlating with the above-ground stem.
23313534|Previous studies have demonstrated the ability of the alga Vaucheria to survive prolonged and stressful periods of desiccation and freezing. However, even during harsh New England winters, the top few centimeters of floodplain alluvium or stream bank mud, where Vaucheria is often found, experience repeated thawing and refreezing events. Muds from two Connecticut riparian sites known to contain propagules from as many as eight species of Vaucheria were collected in spring and summer, then subjected to a variety of freeze/thaw (F/T) cycles. Six species of VaucheriaV. aversa, V. frigida, V. geminata, V. prona, V. taylorii, and V. undulatahave demonstrated survival tolerance to multiple F/T cycles of intervals from 110 days.
23313533|In Qubec (Canada), one of the most recently introduced exotic wetland plants is European water-horehound (Lycopus europaeus). The first specimens were discovered in 1963 near Montral. In this study, we used herbarium specimens and conducted field surveys to reconstruct the history of the invasion of European water-horehound in Qubec, and to accurately determine its current northeastern distribution. Few European water-horehound specimens were collected before 1970. However, between 1970 and 1974, the range of European water-horehound expanded 380 km northeastward from Sorel to Trois-Pistoles River. In 1999, the northeastern distribution limit of European water-horehound was at Bic Provincial Park, 65 km northeast of Trois-Pistoles River. Between 1963 and 1974, European water-horehound spread rapidly along the St. Lawrence River (45 km/yr.), which was probably related to the fact that seeds remain viable after floating. Between 1974 and 1999, it spread more slowly to the northeast of Trois-Pistoles River (3 km/yr.). The limited range expansion of European water-horehound in eastern Qubec between 1974 and 1999 suggests that the salinity of surface waters, and more particularly the scarcity of coastal or riverine marshes east of Rimouski, prevented populations from establishing in the estuarine part of the St. Lawrence River.
23313532|Thomas Walter was the first post-Linnaean author of a sizable flora in eastern North America. As such, the Flora Caroliniana is an important hallmark in the botanical history of the United States. This paper is intended to be the first of a series of commentaries on the plants included in Walter's Flora Caroliniana. The present paper analyzes the thirteen species of oak (Quercus) reported by Walter as occurring in the approximately fifty square miles surrounding his plantation on the south bank of the Santee River some 45 miles northwest of Charleston. Walter's thirteen oak binomials with their current equivalents are as follows: (1) Q. sempervirens Walter = Q. virginiana Mill.; (2) Q. phellos L. = Q. phellos L.; (3) Q. humilis Walter non Mill. = Q. incana W. Bartram; (4) Q. pumila Walter [There is no type specimen and the brief description is in flagrant conflict with the species that has borne the binomial for the past 213 years. A new species (Q. elliottii) is proposed to replace the misapplied name of Walter]; (5) Q. prinus L. [a previously suggested "ambiguous name" soon to be formally proposed for rejection; Walter's plant is Q. michauxii Nutt.]; (6) Q. nigra sensu Walter, non L. = Q. marilandica Mnchh.; (7) Q. aquatica Walter = Q. nigra L.; (8) Q. rubra sensu Walter, non L. = Q. falcata Michx.; (9) Q. laevis Walter = Q. laevis Walter; (10) Q. alba L. = Q. alba L.; (11) Q. lyrata Walter = Q. lyrata Walter; (12) Q. sinuata Walter [identity uncertain]; (13) Q. villosa Walter = Q. stellata Wangenh.
23313531|Sequences of the internal transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships within Stewartia. Eighteen samples were included representing two species of Hartia, seven species of Stewartia, and Franklinia alatamaha. Hartia sinensis and H. villosa form a clade that is the sister group of Stewartia. Within Stewartia the New World and the Old World species form well-supported clades. The subgenera and sections of Stewartia proposed by previous authors are not supported by our ITS data. Two clades are recognized within the Old World lineage: S. serrata + S. rostrata and S. pseudocamellia + S. monadelpha + S. sinensis. Southeastern Asia and China may be a recent center of diversification of Stewartia based on the ITS phylogeny and fossil record.
23313536|A synopsis of the three species of Fernaldia, a genus of Neotropical Apocynaceae restricted to Central America, is presented here. A summary of descriptive morphology, specific relationships, and synonymy is provided.
23313535|A synopsis of the three species of the genus Laubertia (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae, Echiteae) is presented here. Keys, descriptions, distributional data, and taxonomic index are provided.
23313522|Four live clones of the rare hybrid lycopod, Diphasiastrum complanatum  digitatum, have been located and studied in northern New England. This plant is described and a binomial provided.
23313523|A new combination is provided for the hybrid between Polygonum cuspidatum and P. sachalinense. The hybrid, Polygonum bohemicum (J. Chrtek & A. Chrtkov) P. F. Zika & A. L. Jacobson, comb. nov., is widespread and invasive across North America. We illustrate the parents and hybrid, and supply a key to distinguish the three taxa.
23313519|Dahlia hjertingii, a new species from the State of Hidalgo, Mxico, is described and illustrated. Although in some aspects morphologically similar to the allopatric and purple-rayed D. tubulata, this new dahlia is distinct biochemically and genetically. With the addition of D. hjertingii, there is an increased recognition that the mountainous State of Hidalgo and adjacent areas is the region of greatest diversification among the purple-rayed dahlias. Se provee una descripcin e illustracin de Dahlia hjertingii, una nueva especie del estado de Hidalgo, Mxico. A pesar de ser similar en algunos aspectos morfolgicos a la aloptrica de D. tubulata con lgulas moradas, esta nueva especie de dlia se diferencia de por caractersticas bioqumicas y genticas. Con la adicin de D. hjertingii, existe un mayor reconocimiento de que la regon del estado montaoso de Hidalgo y las reas adyacentes es de mayor diversificacin de dlias con lgulas moradas.
23313520|Phylogenetic analyses of the five extant species of Chamaecyparis (Cupressaceae) based on nrDNA ITS sequences yield a single most parsimonious tree in which C. pisifera (Japan) and C. formosensis (Taiwan) form a clade that is sister to a clade including C. lawsoniana (western North America) and C. obtusa (Japan and Taiwan) plus C. thyoides (eastern North America). Dispersal-vicariance analyses (DIVA) suggest a minimum of two dispersal events between eastern Asia and North America.
23313525|Agalinis kingsii (Scrophulariaceae) is a rare Grand Cayman species that is poorly known taxonomically and ecologically. Sampling in 1999 suggested that approximately 43,000 individuals occurred within a single 500,000 m2 sedge wetland habitat in the Salina Reserve and that approximately 500 plants occurred in a 9 m2 location in the Central Mangrove Wetland. For every tenth individual located during the population count in the Salina Reserve, vegetation community associations, environmental parameters, and individual morphology were noted. Based on the findings, we suggest that rarity is a consequence of habitat availability. Since both populations were found within a narrow geographic and ecological range, we conclude that this species may be sensitive to extinction via a stochastic event.
23313524|Mud Pond peatland (Moultonborough, New Hampshire) is an approximately 12 ha wetland with a flora that consists of 124 vascular plant species, representing 46 families. Among the flora of Mud Pond peatland were two New Hampshire Endangered species (Arethusa bulbosa and Carex diandra), one New Hampshire Threatened species (Lysimachia thrysiflora), and four New Hampshire Species of Special Concern (Calopogon tuberosus, Platanthera blephariglottis, Pogonia ophioglossoides, and Sarracenia purpurea). During field reconnaissance, the vegetation of Mud Pond peatland was qualitatively classified as follows: Nuphar variegataNymphaea odorata (aquatic), Carex lasiocarpa (sedge fringe), Vaccinium oxycoccosSarracenia purpurea (Sphagnum lawn), Picea marianaCarex trisperma (muskeg), Chamaedaphne calyculata (ericaceous scrub), Typha latifoliaCarex lacustris (marsh), and Nemopanthus mucronatusCalamagrostis canadensis (lagg) communities. Based primarily on vegetation and basin characteristics, Mud Pond peatland can tentatively be classified as a Sphagnum-dominated poor fen.
23313521|Over 90 species of herbaceous dicotyledonous plants, representing 62 genera and 19 families, were recorded in blossom from northern Nova Scotia, Canada, during November and December 2001. Most observations were made during 1012 November, but 29 species were in flower after 10 December. The number of species flowering declined steadily with time, rather than declining precipitously after the first frost. Only 6 of these 92 species are specifically reported in the floras of Nova Scotia as flowering in November. Examination of plant collections in the primary Nova Scotia herbaria showed that our collections represent the latest flowering records for all but one of these species in Nova Scotia. Accordingly, our collection extends the known flowering times for these species by an average of 45 days. For most species the late flowering is interpreted as an extension of normal phenology in response to unusually warm autumn weather, but for some species (e.g., Viola cucullata, Ranunculus acris, Fragaria virginiana) it appears to represent a second flowering period. Our collections establish a base line of late flowering times that could be used as an indicator of regional climate change.
23313560|Platanthera dilatata (Orchidaceae) is a morphologically variable species encompassing three varieties: dilatata, albiflora, and leucostachys. Spur length and geographic distribution are commonly used to distinguish the varieties, but these characters overlap and are not useful for distinguishing the taxa in all instances. In this study, taxonomic boundaries within P. dilatata are reevaluated using variation in 16 morphological traits, six ISSR primers, four RAPD primers, and RFLPs of two chloroplast regions. Morphological, ISSR, and RAPD markers revealed groupings that loosely corresponded to the three recognized varieties, but there was a substantial amount of overlap among the taxa, and no markers alone reliably distinguished the varieties. Some variation was detected in the two chloroplast regions, but it did not correspond well with taxonomy or geography. These data also revealed a surprisingly strong degree of divergence between eastern and western populations of var. dilatata at ISSR and RAPD loci, but not in morphological or chloroplast markers. Collectively, these results suggest a relatively recent divergence among the three varietis and among populations of var. dilatata. Furthermore, these taxa are likely still in a very active state of evolution due to a combination of geographic isolation and selection by pollinators. Because each of the varieties is generally distinguishable by a set of floral traits and molecular markers, their recognition at the subspecific level is supported. Taxonomic revision within var. dilatata is not recommended until morphological and molecular variation is examined in populations throughout its range.
23313559|Populations of apogamous, tetraploid plants of the beech fern genus, Phegopteris, have been discovered in northern New England, prompting an investigation of their putative origin as a hybrid between apogamous, triploid P. connectilis and sexual, diploid P. hexagonoptera. The present study combined evidence from morphometric analysis and isozyme electrophoresis to determine if P. hexagonoptera and P. connectilis both contribute to the tetraploid genome. Fifteen morphological characters and six gene loci representing five enzyme systems were evaluated. While our results reveal an affinity between the genomes of P. connectilis and the tetraploid Phegopteris, they do not support P. hexagonoptera as a progenitor of the apogamous tetraploid lineage.
23313564|Twenty-one species and seven hybrids of vascular plants are listed as new records for Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and fourteen taxa of vascular plants, including two found outside of Cuyahoga County, constitute new Ohio records. One species is first reported for North America. Approximately 37 percent of the 30 taxa are native to the northeastern United States. Five species are designated by the Ohio Division of Natural Areas and Preserves as endangered, threatened, or added, collectively.
23313561|Podostemum ceratophyllum shows peculiar architectural characters that seem to apply to basal members of Podostemoideae. In contrast to more elaborate taxa of this subfamily, P. ceratophyllum fits into the classical root-shoot (CRS) model, with clearly distinguishable thread-like roots (with root caps and endogenous lateral roots), as well as stems and leaves. Root-born endogenous shoots initially develop a series of distichous leaves having one stipular sheath each. Shoot modules are terminated by double-sheathed leaves associated with stem branching and/or flower formation. Double-sheathed leaves of P. ceratophyllum have two boat-shaped stipular sheaths, each one containing a new leaf (as part of a daughter shoot) or a flower bud. Double-sheathed leaves are an evolutionary novelty of Podostemoideae, leading to branching types not known elsewhere in angiosperms. The vegetative architecture of P. ceratophyllum is similar to other American species of Podostemum.
23313563|New localities are reported for three cycad species in Mexico. Ceratozamia miqueliana was found in montane rainforest in western Chiapas and C. norstogii was found in dry tropical oak forest mixed with elements of seasonally dry tropical forest in eastern Oaxaca. Zamia splendens was found on karstic topography in lowland tropical rainforest in the hills of southern Tabasco. The additional data are encouraging regarding prospective survival of the species, but small population sizes make them vulnerable to any habitat disturbance.
23313562|A floristic survey of Needham, Mass. was undertaken in 20002002 to compare the floristic diversity of this suburban community with a checklist of the flora compiled in 1885 by a local naturalist and to identify patterns and potential causes of change in floristic biodiversity. I found a modern flora of 628 species, of which 32% are introduced. Although the total number of species remained fairly constant (691 species were present in 1885), 43.5% of the native species, including 73 genera and 12 families, have been extirpated. The largest changes in the diversity of native species occurred in the Orchidaceae, with the loss of 85% of the species, and the ferns and other cryptogamic groups, with the loss of 50% of the species, including all taxa in the Ophioglossaceae. Of the extant species, 43% are restricted to one or two sites, and are considered at risk of extirpation. The change in biodiversity appears most closely correlated with the loss of open pasture habitats as a result of both development and succession to shrub or tree-dominated communities.
23313587|The invasive Asiatic green alga Codium fragile subsp. tomentosoides, which was introduced to the northwestern Atlantic in eastern Long Island Sound, New York during 1957, has recently colonized several parts of the Gulf of Maine via two invasion sites: (1) mid-coastal Maine at Boothbay Harbor after transplantation of Long Island oysters (1964); and (2) southern Massachusetts as a result of the expansion of attached plants from the Cape Cod Canal (1969) into nearby Cape Cod Bay (1972). Because of its warm-water affinities, southern New England populations initially expanded more rapidly than northern ones, becoming particularly invasive in shallow subtidal habitats. By contrast, the Boothbay Harbor populations were rather "quiescent," long-lived, and circumscribed until the early 1970s. After a buildup of significant biomass, extensive fragmentation and drifting occurred via strong south-flowing currents; thereafter, Codium colonized mid-coastal Maine, New Hampshire, and northern Massachusetts. Currently, the Casco Bay area just south of Boothbay Harbor has the highest number of invasion sites, particularly at offshore islands. Attached populations are limited to a few contiguous sites just north of Boothbay Harbor, with only drift specimens occurring in "Downeast" Maine. Recent introductions have also been recorded in the Canadian Maritime Provinces, both within the Atlantic (1989) and the Gulf of St. Lawrence (1996) shorelines. Thus, the species' expansion in the northwestern Atlantic has involved multiple introductions, different vectors (shellfish and vessels), dispersal by major south-flowing currents, and differential viability/abundance of in situ populations due to varying hydrographic and exposure conditions. In comparing a series of permanent study sites in southern Maine and New Hampshire during 1982 to 2001, Codium increased from one to 26 sites during 19 years, with the most evident expansion between 19961998. A comparison of several demographic features (length, weight, density, biomass, and percent occurrence) for six Codium populations ranging from mid-coastal Maine to New Hampshire showed that outer estuarine and nearshore open coastal plants were smaller and had more limited densities and biomass than those found at warmer offshore insular sites like Star Island, New Hampshire. Codium is now the dominant canopy species in some southern Maine and New Hampshire locations, extending to 8 m below mean low water; it occurs in both disturbed sites (e.g., former urchin barrens) and established kelp beds at sheltered and exposed locations. The Asiatic red alga Neosiphonia (= Polysiphonia) harveyi, which is the dominant epiphyte on Codium, is also exhibiting a rapid expansion in this same geography. Drifting populations of Codium may be a good vector for its introduction, as well as for several other epiphytes. Another aspect of the invasion of Codium into the Gulf of Maine is the spread of the introduced bryozoan Membranipora membranacea, which is common on kelps but appears to be exhibiting enhanced survival on Codium because of its perennial growth pattern and lack of epibiontic sloughing.
23313588|The island of Martha's Vineyard lies in the western Atlantic Ocean off the southwest corner of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. The island's marine algal populations have been the subject of intermittent study for approximately 130 years, most intensively in the last 40 years. Four herbaria known to contain specimens collected at the island were examined, and a bibliographical search for additional collections was made. The 155 documented species found by this process are listed with notes on habitat, abundance, and seasonality. Thus, 39% of the 396 species known between the Strait of Belle Isle and northern New Jersey have been found at Martha's Vineyard. A second list is included of 24 additional species that are known to occur within ten miles of the Martha's Vineyard shoreline and that can be expected to be found there with additional field work. Brief comparisons are made between the Vineyard marine flora and those of the more boreal floras of New Hampshire, coastal Maine, and New Brunswick, Canada.
23313589|This study examines the phylogenetic relationships of the nine Silene species endemic to eastern North America using nuclear ITS and chloroplast trnL intron sequence data. The ITS region is highly variable among taxa and is more phylogenetically informative than the less variable trnL intron DNA data. The ITS sequences indicate that the eastern North American taxa are not monophyletic, but instead occur in two clades that are nested within a clade including western species. Silene section Occidentales is also not monophyletic. The diverse floral morphologies of the eastern North American Silene appear to be evolutionarily labile. Neither floral morphology nor pollinator syndromes are conserved within clades. Both ITS and trnL intron data indicate that the hummingbird-pollinated taxa are not monophyletic. There is weak evidence for differences in the nuclear and chloroplast phylogenies that may be a result of reticulate evolution.
23313480|We support Kergulen's (1977, 1987) assertion that both Lamarck (1798) and Willdenow (1809) independently published the identical name Panicum geniculatum and that P. Beauvois (1812) based his Setaria geniculata on Willdenow's name. The type collections of Lamarck's and Willdenow's names are different, but were from the same locality and belong to the same species. Willdenow's name, which is traced to Vahl's unpublished manuscript, is a later homonym, is illegitimate, and cannot serve as a basionym. Because of the illegitimacy of P. geniculatum Willd., S. geniculata is treated as a nom. nov. with its priority from 1812. Cenchrus parviflorus Poir. (1804) is the earliest legitimate name available for this species, and therefore, S. parviflora (Poir.) Kergulen (1987) is recognized.
23313481|The genus Cladrastis (Sophora group, Sophoreae, Papilionoideae, Leguminosae) occurs in the southeastern United States, China, and Japan, having an eastern North Americaeastern Asia disjunct distributional pattern. It comprises trees with alternate, imparipinnate leaves with alternate leaflets, lateral buds enclosed in the base of the petiole, and white flowers in paniculate inflorescences that may be erect or pendulous. A phenetic analysis of morphological characters was conducted on a subset of the 600 herbarium specimens examined from 26 herbaria worldwide. The resulting phenogram of vegetative specimens showed 4 clusters of specimens. Further analysis using flowering specimens indicated two additional clusters. Comparing these clusters with type specimens resulted in recognition of six taxa: Cladrastis platycarpa, C. kentukea, C. wilsonii, C. delavayi, C. shikokiana, and one new species, C. chingii.
23313484|The Amaranthus spp. collections from the largest Canadian herbaria were reviewed and a conspectus was prepared. The genus is represented in Canada by 14 species (eight naturalized, four cultivated, and two rare adventive) and by six hybrids. New records for the Canadian flora include: Amaranthus caudatus, A. powellii subsp. bouchonii, A. hybridus subsp. quitensis, A. blitum subsp. emarginatus, A. tricolor, A. powellii  A. hybridus, A. powellii  A. tuberculatus, and A. albus  A. blitoides. The presence of the previously reported dioecious species A. palmeri and A. cannabinus is not confirmed by herbarium material. The taxonomy of the most problematic taxa is discussed and a key is provided for all Canadian species and subspecies. Morphology of fruits, seeds, and pollen belonging to A. albus and A. californicus was compared and their taxonomic relationship discussed. The infraspecific variability of A. tuberculatus was analyzed and a new nomenclatural combination proposedA. tuberculatus var. rudis.
23313482|Paspalum pilosum and P. peregrinum are members of the informal Decumbentes group of Paspalum, and grow from Mexico and Mesoamerica to Brazil and Bolivia in South America. Paspalum pilosum is characterized by its erect to decumbent culms, glabrous to pilose sheaths and blades, one or two racemes in terminal inflorescences, glabrous spikelets arranged in pairs in 2 irregular series on the rachis, dimorphic lower glumes in the pair of spikelets, longitudinally sulcate lower lemmas, and glabrous gynoecium. Paspalum peregrinum has sheaths and blades densely pilose, racemes occasionally branched, hairy spikelets arranged in 1 to 4 series on the rachis, and a hairy gynoecium. These modifications in the morphology of P. peregrinum are due to a fungal infection. Another species, Thrasya venezuelana, known only from the type collection, is the same taxon as P. peregrinum. We conclude that P. peregrinum and T. venezuelana are in fact abnormal specimens of P. pilosum, whose morphology is modified by the fungal infection. Therefore, both species are reduced to the synonymy of P. pilosum. This constitutes two new incidents of erroneous interpretation of abnormal morphology caused by fungi, and the first in the tribe Paniceae.
23313483|The scientific name of Bristly Greenbrier, a widespread species in eastern North America, has been unsettled for at least the past six decades with Smilax tamnoides and S. hispida both strongly competing for acceptance in scores of books, papers, and checklists. Neither binomial as currently employed can withstand nomenclatural scrutiny. The correct name determined in the present study is S. hispida Raf., a binomial with three years priority over S. hispida Muhl. ex Torrey.
23311067|Certains aspects pertinents de la biologie et de l'cologie de deux espces d'Aster de l'Est de l'Amrique du Nord: A. acuminatus (espce de sous-bois frais), A. nemoralis (espce de tourbire  sphaigne) et de leur hybride A.  blakei ont t analyses dans le contexte de leurs adaptations  leurs milieux respectifs. Cette analyse permet de mieux comprendre la distribution gographique actuelle de chacun des taxons en fonction de l'histoire post-glaciaire du nord-est amricain et du Qubec. Pertinent aspects of the biology and ecology of two north american species of Aster: A. acuminatus (a forest species), A. nemoralis (a sphagnum-bog species) and their hybrid A.  blakei are analysed in relation to their adaptations to contrasting environments. This analysis gives a better framework for the understanding of present geographic distribution of the taxa in relation to post glacial events in north-eastern America.
23314107|The cytology and distribution of Gymnocarpium robertianum (Hoffm.) Newman and G. jessoense (Koidz.) Koidz. subsp. parvulum Sarvela in North America are presented, together with the distinguishing features of these two species. Gymnocarpium robertianum is confirmed as a tetraploid species with n=80 and the newly recognized G. jessoense subsp. parvulum also has n=80.
23311008|Detailed descriptions. The pollen morphology of the seven species of maple (genus Acer, family Aceraceae) indigenous to New England is described. The species included are Acer pensylvanicum L., A. rubrum L., A, spicatum Lam., A. negundo L., A. saccharinum L., A. nigrum Michx. f., and A. saccharum Marsh. Detailed descriptions for the species are based on both scanning electron and light microscope observations. The morphological characteristics and classification of the pollen grains of the New England species are discussed in comparison with the observations of previous workers. Size ranges, Polar axis/Equatorial axis ratios (P/E), and Polar Area indices are summarized. Photomicrographs from both light and scanning electron microscopes are included for each species.
23312935|Polystichum alfarii (Christ) Barr. is here recognized as a species with a wide disjunction from the montane regions of northern Mesoamerica to the mountains of Costa Rica and Panama. Morphological circumscription and a meiotic chromosome number of n = 41 bivalents are provided. Comparison of habitat and distribution with other Central American species of Polystichum suggests that the 620 km disjunction of P. alfarii, noteworthy for a lower-altitude Polystichum species in Mesoamerica, is related to its unique preference for seasonally dry forests at altitudes between 1300 and 1700 m.
23312936|A population of putative hybrids between Arisaema triphyllum (L.) Schott subsp. stewardsonii (Britt.) Huttleston and A. dracontium (L.) Schott (Araceae) was found in a disturbed floodplain forest in Hampshire County, Northampton, MA in late spring, 1988. The hybrids are intermediate between the parental species in leaflet number, spadix length, spathe length, and somatic chromosome number. They also exhibit apparent hybrid vigor and occur in a near-classic example of a hybrid habitat.
23312937|The tribe Vernonieae is surveyed in continuation of the preliminary reviews of the Asteraceae of the Guianas (Guyana, Suriname, Cayenne), South America. Nineteen species are listed in 15 genera. The genus Xiphochaeta is resurrected from the synonymy of Stilpnopappus for the northern South American species commonly known as S. viridis. Elongate raphids in the achene are emphasized as a character relating Xiphochaeta to Lepidaploa.
23312941|A new combination is provided for a Scutellaria and an Engelmannia. A name change in Mimulus is explained.
23312942|Two significant additions have been made to the native vascular flora of Newfoundland as a result of explorations on the Great Northern Peninsula: Cardamine bellidifolia L. and Salix cordata Michx.
23312940|Three sympatric species of peatland orchids were investigated for differences in their ability to partition microhabitats. Species distributions at the study sites reflected differences in the hydrology and microtopography, indicating microhabitat partitioning. Pogonia was restricted to the wettest areas while Calopogon and Arethusa were found on drier sites.
23312938|The four species of Section Sedastrum appear to comprise a natural group, but studies of 92 collections show three different basic chromosome numbers: n = 20 in Sedum ebracteatum and S. hemsleyanum, n = 25 in S. hintonii, and n = 31 in S. glabrum. The first two species are very similar and possibly should be treated as the same. Most plants of these two species are polyploids, up to n = ca. 140. Many of the high polyploids are irregular at meiosis and probably reduced in sexual fertility. No clues are evident that suggest how these different basic numbers evolved.
23312915|Taxonomy provides the basis for rare species protection by defining and naming the taxa eligible for listing and by providing biological information critical to plant protection. As endangered species laws become stronger (or more restrictive, depending on the point of view), it will become increasingly important that lists of endangered species be based on a solid scientific foundation and incorporate correct nomenclature. These factors are also important on a regional basis and facilitate coordinated interstate plant protection efforts. However, an examination of endangered species lists in the New England states has shown that 30% of the listed names demonstrate taxonomic inconsistency or error, and that additional biological problems of hybridity or asexual reproduction occur that may not be consistent with state endangered species definitions. The majority of the taxonomic problems noted in the New England rare flora are at the infraspecific level. Specific policy recommendations which arise from this study include the addition of synonyms to state endangered species lists, the formation of scientific advisory boards to assist state agencies with evaluating taxonomic changes, and increased support of taxonomic research dealing with rare species issues.
23312917|Land protection alone is not sufficient to accomplish in situ conservation objectives. Habitat management is required to help address most of the threats to rare plant populations and their habitats. The high cost of land protection can often be countered by focusing conservation activity on public land where land acquisition is not an issue. It is still necessary, though, to focus conservation resources on populations that will best contribute to the protection of the species. A range-wide approach using Heritage data to compare all existing occurrences is discussed. A management planning process is described for those populations that do become the focus of in situ efforts. This planning process includes the development of ecological models that describe the interaction among the species, its habitat and key ecological processes. These models aid in the development of site designs and the establishment of measurable conservation goals. The success of management actions at reaching these goals should be tracked in focused biological monitoring programs. This feedback mechanism enables land managers to reevaluate their ecological assumptions, conservation goals and management strategies.
23312916|Because plant conservationists have such an enormous task facing them, criteria for setting conservation priorities must be developed. In this paper I suggest a set of criteria for determining species conservation priorities based on three independent factors: (1) likelihood of persistence, (2) taxonomic distinctiveness, and (3) potential economic or ecological importance. Species with the highest priority for conservation will be those that are unlikely to persist without intervention, are taxonomically distinct and are economically or ecologically important. There are also a set of practical criteria that must be considered in setting priorities: What are the chances that the proposed conservation program will succeed? Could the program endanger existing natural populations? How expensive will the effort be? Regional plant conservation programs have something important to offer. Just as it makes sense to justify a regional plant conservation program for New England with reference to the distinctive characteristics of its flora, it makes sense to define regions within New England towards which our conservation programs are directed. Not only will regional plant conservation programs make a significant contribution to conserving our natural heritage, but their development will lead to new insights that can be applied to conservation on a much broader scale.
23313173|Plant community structure and selected physical parameters influencing vegetational patterns were studied in a Merrimack River freshwater tidal marsh. A flora of 88 vascular plant species was documented. Special consideration was given to three species, Scirpus fluviatilis, Bidens eatonii and Eriocaulon parkeri, listed as rare for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Species abundance data were used to classify the vegetation into eight plant cover types using the computer program TWINSPAN.
23313172|Chromosome numbers are reported for 206 individuals of 100 taxa and three interspecific hybrids from 18 genera. The majority of the reports are for Aster and Solidago, with about one fourth of these from populations in Alaska, the Yukon, British Columbia, and Alberta. Nearly all counts confirm previous reports for the taxa; some reports are first counts for one or more of the six Canadian provinces or territories and 30 states of the United States sampled. The cytogeography and taxonomy of Aster puniceus, A. sibiricus and A. meritus, Solidago guiradonis, S. confinis, S. spectabilis, S. sparsiflora, and S. simplex are discussed. The following first report is included: Solidago guiradonis, 2n = 9II, 2n = 18.
23313169|Alpine and sub-alpine cliff floras have changed since botanists first explored the mountaintops of the northeastern United States; results of recent extensive field surveys are compared with the historical database to document these changes. New distribution and population data are presented for 27 rare northern taxa in Vermont, New York, New Hampshire and Maine. Paronychia argyrocoma is reported for the first time from Vermont. Eleven historical records for rare species are dismissed as errors. Most newly reported rare plant locations appear to be previously unexplored areas and do not represent recent dispersal. Population declines are indicated for Arenaria rubella in Vermont and Luzula spicata in New York, although the populations are in remote and pristine sites. Local extirpations are presumed in Vermont for Arnica lanceolata, Castilleja septentrionalis, Empetrum eamesii ssp. atropurpureum, Geocaulon lividum, and Solidago cutleri, and in New York for Cassiope hypnoides.
23313168|Blephilia subnuda Simmers & Kral is described from the Cumberland Plateau province of northern Alabama. This species is compared with other species and forms of Blephilia, from all of which it differs in its puberulent calyx tube. From B. ciliata it differs primarily also in having serotinous decumbent offshoots, stems glabrate below the middle, leaves glabrate, calyx mostly shorter, and corollas paler in ground color (white to pale purple). From glabrate forms of B. hirsuta it differs primarily in stem vesture, leaves with fewer trichomes, calyx with longer, puberulent tube and longer teeth of lower lip, and darker nutlet color.
23313171|The name H. micrantha Pollard is shown to be currently misapplied; plants going under that name in recent floristic treatments are referable to H. wrightii (Baker) Brackett while H. micrantha Pollard is properly regarded as a synonym of H. hirsuta (Linnaeus) Coville. H. curtissii Rose is shown to have priority over H. leptocarpa (Engelmann & Gray) Small. Lectotypes are selected for H. rigida Chapman and H. sessilis Linnaeus.
23313170|An albino form of Triphora trianthophora (Swartz) Rydberg is described as forma albidoflava Keenan, characterized by pure white sepals and petals, and the three crests on the lip petal being a bright yellow instead of the normal green color, the remainder of the plant creamy-white. A summary of conclusions on observations of the three-birds orchid in Holderness, N.H. at two different sites, one under study for twenty years, the other for six years, including these: approximately five or six days of flowering spaced over a bloom period from the first week in August to the first week in September; variation in population from a few thousand to several thousand each year; simultaneous blooming in a region encompassing New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts; more than 95% of the plants having either one or two flowers open at the same time.
23312884|Floral and geographic evidence for infraspecific classification of the monotypic genus Limnobium (incl. Hydromystria) native to the Americas are presented. A continuum in floral form and a conspicuous overlap in patterns of flower variation between populations disclose the presence of just one latitudinally diverging species, Limnobium spongia (Bosc) Steudel, in which two subspecies, L. spongia subsp. spongia and L. spongia subsp. laevigatum (Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.) Lowden, comb. nov., are recognized. Numerical analysis of floral variation in living populations and their evolutionary trends are treated for these two subspecies. Special field collections of this freshwater, non-submerged, monoecious plant were made throughout the known range of the genus in eastern United States, West Indies and South America. Population samples allowed critical morphological observations on male and female flowers, for which consistent and continuous variation was found in the form and number of petals, stamens, staminoides, stigmas, carpels and locules.
23312887|Seven selected limesink depressions in Carolina Beach State Park (New Hanover County, North Carolina) were floristically surveyed in 1990. One state record, 11 county records, and 28 species of special interest or concern are among the 108 vascular plant species collected or observed.
23312886|Scirpus longii is a rare coastal plain plant traditionally regarded as a New Jersey Pine Barrens species. It had been known from only one site in Canada, in Nova Scotia, until it was recognized in its vegetative state. In Nova Scotia, S. longii occurs in wetlands where the importance of competition from shrubs has been reduced either by ice scour or flooding. Flooding, and consequent anaerobiosis, appears to be the main mechanism which reduces shrub growth in most S. longii habitats, but ice scour may be a more important factor on the shores of high watershed area lakes. Scirpus longii forms circular clones at all non-ice-scoured habitats. Above-ground production of shoots is restricted to the periphery of circular clones. Our data indicate that this circular phalanx may help the species to compete with shrubs. Populations in Nova Scotia appear to be secure; however, their persistence will be influenced by any factor which alters their competitive dynamics with shrubs.
23312885|Andropogon barbatus L. 1759 and 1760 refer to a Jamaican grass, whereas A. barbatus L. 1771, a later homonym, applies to an East Indian grass. A. polydactylon L. 1763, a renaming of A. barbatus L. 1759 and 1760, is a superfluous name. Chloris barbata Sw. 1797, which was based on A. barbatus L. 1771, must be considered to be a nom. nov. C. barbata Sw. and C. elata Desvaux are the earlier names for C. inflata Link and C. dandeyana Adams.
23312889|The natural plant communities and habitats of Berkshire County, Massachusetts, are described. Communities are delineated by a description of the physical characteristics of the habitat and typical vegetation. An extensive list of species most closely associated with each community is provided. Distribution of the communities within the county is discussed, and examples are given. Other factors, both biotic and abiotic, that influence development of each community are noted.
23312888|Microstegium vimineum is a weedy species which has recently spread from New Jersey into New York and Connecticut. It has been collected at two sites along the Hudson River in New York and reported from three sites in Connecticut. Because of its ability to invade rapidly into disturbed areas, this grass may pose a threat to rare native associate species.
