24642244|It is presumed that longevity of cells under cryogenic condition can be almost infinitely extended. Pre-cryopreservation treatments such as vitrification and desiccation have a positive effect on the seed's survival efficiency and the length of the preservation period under cryogenic conditions. Seeds of two Apiaceae species, Ferula gummosa and the endangered Kelussia odoratissima, were collected from different habitats in Iran. The seed samples were subjected to PVS2 (plant vitrification solution 2), desiccation, and 30% glycerol before being transferred into liquid nitrogen (LN) or 196 C for 1 week, 1 month, 1 year and 26 months. After seed removal from LN, seeds were exposed to a heat shock (42 C), washed, and evaluated under laboratory as well as greenhouse (22  4 C) and field conditions. High level of recovery from LN, based on evaluating seed germination and seed and seedling attributes, under laboratory and greenhouse conditions, revealed the cryogenic tolerance of the species' seeds. Plants which originated from cryopreserved seeds grew normally under greenhouse conditions and did not show any abnormalities compared to control plants. Lack of significant differences among most of the pre-cryopreservation treatments and storage periods indicated the success of long-term seed preservation of the species in LN. Because of high seed germination and other characteristics, in addition to successful Kelussia odoratissima establishment in the field, it is concluded that seeds of Ferula gummosa and Kelussia odoratissima can be preserved under cryogenic conditions using various pre-cryopreservation treatments.
24642247|The objective of this study was to determine the effect of sand roasting and steaming pre-treatments on the physical properties of nutmeg nuts. Pre-treatments contribute to energy consumption of processing, and ultimately the operational costs of shelling. The effects of pre-shelling treatments are also important for equipment design. Moisture content of nutmeg nuts and kernels significantly varied between the roasting and steaming pre-treatments. Nut length, width, and thickness were significantly affected by pre-shelling treatments, while arithmetic mean diameter, geometric mean diameter, aspect ratio and sphericity index did not differ among pre-treatments. Unit weight, angle of repose and compressive strength of nutmeg seeds were significantly affected by pre-treatments. Pre-treatments resulted in significant differences in bulk and true densities, but not in the porosities, of the nuts. The compressive strength of roasted and steamed nutmeg nuts decreased compared to raw nuts, and the coefficient of friction was significantly affected by both pre-treatments and material surfaces.
24642245|Priming appears to reverse the detrimental effects of seed aging by modulating pre-germination metabolic activity prior to radicle emergence. However, the impact of these metabolic changes on seed reserve utilization is not clear. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of hydro-priming on reserve utilization of three differentially aged seed lots (100, 98 and 89% normal germination) of chickpea. Results showed that reserve utilization rate of the most aged seed lot significantly decreased, compared with other seed lots. The highest conversion efficiency was obtained for the high quality seed lot and decreased with decreasing seed lot quality. Increasing seed aging led to significant reduction in germination rate and seedling dry weight, mainly due to a poor reserve utilization rate. The highest seed reserve utilization rate was recorded for high vigor and primed seed lots. Increasing seed vigor due to hydro-priming also resulted in increasing germination rate and seedling dry weight. The highest improvement in germination rate due to hydro-priming was observed in poor vigor seed lots. Therefore, hydro-priming can improve reserve utilization of differentially aged seeds and thereby enhance their germination rate and seedling size.
24642242|Internal seed morphology, germination and vigor were examined in Portulaca grandiflora and P. oleracea seeds using image analysis techniques, to assess the role of seed free space on germination and seedling vigor. Five lots of P. grandiflora and two lots of P. oleracea seeds were first X-rayed, and the radiographs analyzed with Image Pro Plus to measure the free space between the embryo and endosperm of each seed. Seeds were then germinated either immediately or after exposure to saturated salt accelerated aging conditions for 48 and 72 h. Seedling vigor was assessed with the Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS). Free space between the embryo and endosperm in seeds of P. grandiflora ranged from 0 to 4.6% as a proportion of the whole seed area for all lots examined, whereas for seeds of P. oleracea, the range was from 0 to 10%. The relationship between seed free space and germination of P. grandiflora was variable; two of the five lots showed a reduction in the proportion of normal seedlings as the seed free space increased. While there appeared to be no direct relationship between increased free space and reduction in germination and vigor of P. grandiflora seeds, for P. oleracea seeds the results indicated a negative effect of extensive free space on germination and vigor.
24642243|Test result uniformity across laboratories is critical for seed labeling and marketing. One challenge in grass seed purity testing is separating light-weight inert matter such as empty and under-developed florets. A uniform blowing procedure, without measuring air velocity or using master calibration samples, was used to separate lightweight inert matter from pure seeds in orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata) and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) for decades by the Association of Official Seed Analysts. However, the method had limitations including length of time required for blower calibration, need for repeated calibrations, and stability of standard calibration samples (SCS) over years. Orchardgrass SCS variation had been suspected by laboratories, leading to inconsistent test results among laboratories. This study's objectives were to measure variability among SCS in different laboratories and introduce a new blowing procedure using uniform master calibration samples (MCS) to determine the optimum blowing points (OBP) of orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass, and use equivalent air velocity (EAV) values to reproduce the OBP over time. Studies were conducted to develop and test the validity of using MCS and EAV to achieve consistent separation of light inert matter within and across laboratories for orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass. Using MCS enabled laboratories to find comparable OBP in their blowers and reduced variability in light inert matter separation. Using EAV allowed monitoring the correct setting of blowers accurately and quickly (2 min). The new method proved to be accurate, repeatable, simple to use, and assured uniformity in separating orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass light inert matter across laboratories.
24642235|Proposals involving changes and additions to the Association of Official Seed Analysts Rules for Testing Seeds are submitted annually. The rule proposals are voted on by AOSA members and by registered members of the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST) at their joint annual meeting. Appropriate guidelines for developing proposals are outlined.
24642248|Members of the genus Ziziphus are reported to have problems of dormancy that hamper uniform seed germination under nursery conditions. This study was conducted to assess the most viable propagation technique for Ziziphus spina-christi seeds under nursery conditions of Debre Zeit Agricultural Research Center. Seed germination was tested following cold and hot water treatments, each with four levels, and sulfuric acid scarification with five levels. Three independent experiments for each treatment type were conducted, laid out in a completely randomized design with four replications. ANOVA of germination results from cold water treatments showed no significant treatment effect. A significantly higher germination percentage was obtained from seeds treated with hot water at 85 C and left to cool at room temperature of 25 C for 12 h. Additionally, a significantly higher germination percentage was recorded by scarifying seeds with sulfuric acid (98%) for 30 min and subsequent rinsing with cold water before sowing. Very low and very high immersion times in sulfuric acid of 5 and 120 min, respectively, led to a significant reduction in germination.
24642239|The maximum genetic diversity of horse gram (Macrotyloma uniflorum) is considered to be in the Old World tropics, especially in India and the Himalayas. Identification of horse gram genotypes is of prime importance to ensure quality seed by identifying off-types in samples. Characterization based on morphological characters usually varies with environments, and evaluation of these traits requires growing the plant to maturity prior to identification. Therefore, 22 genotypes of horse gram were identified based on seed response to different chemicals tests, namely standard phenol, modified phenol, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, as well as isozyme polymorphism. Although no single chemical test was able to distinguish all genotypes, genotypes could be differentiated using an identification key combining the different chemical tests. Most genotypes were identified successfully using electrophoresis of isozymes, especially using esterase isozyme profiles.
24642237|Future seed testing needs for seed analysts and researchers are outlined by the author, who has over 25 years of experience in seed testing and has been the ISTA (International Seed Testing Association) Rules Chair since 2000. The different requirements for analysts, researchers, standardized testing methods and seed associations from a manager's perspective are provided. Future prospects are discussed and conclusions drawn. A major highlighted concern is the lack of structured training opportunities and funding for seed technologists and analysts. The need to raise the profile of people involved in the whole cycle of breeding, growing, testing and certifying seed and grain is identified as an industry need.
24642246|Knowledge about genetic variation and association between various seed characters of pea (Pisum sativum) is of vital importance to breeding programs aiming to produce improved varieties with high seed and seedling vigor. Forty genotypes of pea were evaluated for various seed vigor traits to obtain estimates of variability, heritability and genetic advance, as well as correlations, for different seed and seedling characteristics. Adequate variability was present for 100-seed weight, speed of germination, shoot length, root length, fresh seedling weight and vigor indices. The highest genotypic coefficient of variation was observed in total seedling length and vigor indices. Heritability was high for 100-seed weight, vigor indices, total seedling length and fresh seedling weight. High genetic advance was observed for total seedling length, one of two vigor indices and seedling root length. Seedling shoot length had a positive and significant correlation with seedling fresh weight, and speed of germination was correlated to one vigor index, seedling length and fresh seedling weight. On the basis of this study, it is suggested that test weight, root length, shoot length, germination index and vigor indices be considered in selection programs for seedling improvement of pea.
24642236|The reclamation seed industry is new compared to the agronomic seed industry. Reclamation species have unique characteristics not typically shared by agronomic species. Reclamation species may have varying levels of dormancy and are not usually planted for harvest. In contrast, agronomic species must have uniform maturity at the time of harvest, and if the seed planted does not produce that desired uniformity, it could have a reduced value or even be worthless. The rules for testing seeds have been written with species planted for harvest in mind. This article illustrates the differences between agronomic species and reclamation species. It offers suggestions to better address the seed testing and regulatory needs of reclamation species.
24642240|Quantitative information about temperature effects on germination components in safflower is scarce. The objective of this study was to describe the trend of cumulative germination at different temperatures and determine cardinal temperatures and thermal time for safflower germination. Three safflower cultivars, Esfahan, Goldasht and Padideh, were germinated at temperatures ranging from 540 C, with 5 C intervals. Germination was recorded from 714 d in 812 h intervals. Fitting a logistic function on cumulative germination data at different temperatures showed that maximum germination was obtained at temperatures of 530 C for Esfahan, 520 C for Padideh, and 1015 C for Goldasht. Optimal germination temperature was 30 C for Esfahan and Padideh, and 25 C for Goldasht. In addition, beta, dent-like and segmented functions were used to describe the relationship between germination rate and temperature. Response of germination rate to temperature was best described by a segmented function due to higher R2 and lower root mean square of deviations between predicted and observed hours to germination, and lower standard error for estimating function parameters. Using this function, base, optimum and ceiling emergence temperatures were estimated to be 5, 32 and 48 C, respectively. The physiological hour requirements for germination were 23 h for Goldasht, 17.8 h for Esfahan and 16.4 h for Padideh, equivalent to daily thermal time of 19.7, 28.9 and 16.7 C d1, respectively.
24642238|Fruit quality, productivity and seed germination of teak (Tectona grandis), collected from 38 seed production areas (SPA), were evaluated in 20022004. Selected SPA were distributed over five seed zones: Nilambur, Wayanad, Parambikulam, Konni and Achencoil, of Kerala state in India. The study revealed significant variations in fruit yield (2.3453.52 kg ha1), diameter (1.421.88 cm), test weight (67.76118.93 g) and number of seeds per fruit (0.781.41), both within and among seed zones. There was no year-to-year variation in seed germination. Overall mean germination of seeds collected in 2002 and 2003 was low, 9.37 and 10.14%, respectively. Significant variation in seed germination was observed in 2002 among the 38 SPA, from 035%. Similarly, germination of seeds collected in 2003 ranged from 0.835.5%. Seeds collected from SPA within the Wayanad zone exhibited a high degree of dormancy. Among the five seed collection zones, seeds from SPA in Nilambur and Konni had higher germination compared to seeds from SPA in Parambikulam and Wayanad, in both years.
24642241|The aim of this work was to quantify the effect of the pulp of Juglans nigra fruit during the stratification process on seed quality and initial root growth of black walnut. The presence of the pulp caused a significant decrease in the germination velocity index, increasing 11.6 times the mean time of maximum germination. Seed germination capacity was significantly reduced, and the proportion of dead seeds was increased at least 17 times. Furthermore, the presence of the pulp increased nearly four times the proportion of abnormal seedlings, as well as affecting seedling roots. The main root of seedlings from fruits stratified in the presence of the pulp showed lower length and diameter with no secondary roots, compared to fruits from which the pulp was removed after harvest. Similar effects were observed in lettuce (Lactuca sativa) seeds germinating in different media with increasing concentrations of an aqueous extract of the pulp of black walnut fruits, demonstrating the presence of inhibitors or phytotoxic compounds in pulp tissue. Abscisic acid (ABA) and jasmonic acid were detected in the pulp tissue. Measured ABA concentrations were higher than those reported for Fraxinus seeds that produced similar seed deterioration symptoms reported in this experiment.
24642270|The seed coat of white clover seeds (Trifolium repens L.) is one of the factors affecting seed imbibition, causing irregular germination as well as abnormal seedlings and hardseededness. The aim of the present work was to determine the level of dormancy in white clover seeds in terms of hydration speed, moisture content, weight and germination, using seeds from two crop harvests in Argentina. White clover seeds, cv. 'NK Churrinche', with physical dormancy had lower moisture content, lower weight and greater viability than non-dormant seeds. The moisture content of dormant seeds suggested better storability than non-dormant seeds. Water permeability varied among seeds, reflecting deep levels of physical dormancy, which in turn influenced seed physiological quality.
24642275|The aim of this work was to develop a specific X-ray machine to be used not only for research, but also for routine seed analysis. The machine consisted of an X-ray tube support column, tube stand, tube case, X-ray tube with a beryllium window, collimator, power supply, and grid cabinet. The machine had a 050 KVp and 0300 mA range and utilized 18  22 cm conventionally developed radiographic plates. The resulting X-ray images could be scanned and/or photographed to generate digital files. Diagramming radiographic patterns for each species could be a very helpful tool for the interpretation of seed quality tests. The machine, called RUTAX, used a non-destructive method and had potential as a useful tool for evaluating a wide variety of seed and fruit species with different structural characteristics, allowing frequent and fast monitoring with a high level of diagnostic reliability.
24642274|This work aimed to determine the optimal temperature and influence of photoperiod on the germination process of Geoffroea decorticans seeds, a multiple-use woody species. We used seeds from individual plants located in Ro Primero, Crdoba. The seeds were sown on paper towels in groups of 25, placed in germination chambers and tested under nine temperature regimes: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, alternating 30/20 and alternating 35/15 C  2 C, and two light conditions, a 12/12 h (light/dark) photoperiod and constant darkness. The effects of a 12/12 h photoperiod were studied on germination, time to 50% germination, germination velocity and light-related germination, while only percentage germination at the end of the test was evaluated under constant darkness. Germination of G. decorticans was higher than 50% within the 2040 C temperature range and at the alternating temperatures tested. The highest percentage germination (95%) was recorded at 30/20 C, but was not significantly different from those occurring at 25 (92%), 30 (90%), 35 (85%), or 35/15 C (83%). Therefore, seeds of G. decorticans could germinate within a wide range of temperatures and were light-neutral, although the highest germination occurred under alternating light conditions. El objetivo de este trabajo fue determinar la temperatura ptima y la influencia del fotoperodo sobre el proceso germinativo de Geoffroea decorticans, (especie leosa de mltiples usos. Se utilizaron semillas de individuos localizados en Ro Primero, Crdoba. Grupos de 25 semillas se sembraron sobre toallas de papel y se colocaron en cmaras de germinacin. Se ensayaron 9 regmenes de temperaturas: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 30/20 y 35/15 C  2 C y dos condiciones de luz: fotoperodo de 12/12 h, (luz/oscuridad) y oscuridad continua. Considerando el fotoperodo, se analizaron los parmetros: germinacin media, velocidad de germinacin, ndice de velocidad de germinacin y germinacin relativa a la luz. El parmetro evaluado en condiciones de oscuridad continua fue el porcentaje de semillas germinadas al finalizar el ensayo. G. decorticans registr porcentajes de germinacin superiores al 50% en el rango de 20 a 40 C  2 C y en las temperaturas alternas ensayadas. El mximo porcentaje (95%) se registr a 30/20 C  2 C, no existiendo diferencias significativas con las temperaturas 25 C (92%), 30 C (90%), 35 C y 35/15 C (83%)  2 C. Las semillas de G. decorticans germinan en un amplio rango de temperaturas, son indiferentes a la luz, pero los mayores porcentajes de germinacin se obtienen en alternancia lumnica.
24642268|The objective of this experiment was to assess the effects of exogenous ascorbic acid application on the vigor of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) seeds subjected to aging and salinity. Seeds were aged for 72 h at 45 C and 99% RH, in the dark, then germinated in paper imbibed with either deionized water (T2), 100 mM NaCl (T3), 0.85 mM ascorbic acid (T4), or 100 mM NaCl + 0.85 mM ascorbic acid (T5), in addition to a control treatment (T1; non-aged seeds with deionized water). T2 and T3 affected germination stages, reducing dry mass, membrane integrity and seed germination. T4 mitigated the effects of artificial aging on germination and vigor, resulting in a higher emergence speed index (ESI) and water content, as well as lower mean emergence time (MET) of seedlings. T5 reduced fresh mass, increased seed electrical conductivity and slowed germination, with lower ESI and higher MET. Results suggested that ascorbic acid application could mitigate the effects caused by aging, but was not able to attenuate the toxic effects of NaCl on aged cowpea seeds.
24642267|Seed priming has been successfully used to improve germination and seedling establishment of many vegetables and field crops. Laboratory tests and field experiments were conducted in 2011 and 2012 at the Urmia Research Station, West Azerbaijan, Iran, to evaluate the effects of hydro-priming, halo-priming with 2% KNO3, and osmo-priming with ZnSO4 (200 mM Zn) and KH2PO4 (50 mM P) on seedling vigor and field emergence of sunflower. Priming significantly improved seed germination, germination rate, seed vigor index, shoot, root and seedling dry weights, and reduced mean germination time and electrical conductivity of seed leachates, compared to the unprimed control. Hydro-priming was more effective in improving all studied parameters compared to priming with chemical salts. Effects of priming with ZnSO4 on germination traits, seed vigor and seedling dry weight were more pronounced than the effects of other halo-priming and osmo-priming treatments. Priming improved seedling emergence, emergence rate and emergence time. Priming with water and KH2PO4 resulted in higher seedling emergence and establishment in the field, compared to the control and priming with KNO3 or ZnSO4. Mean seedling emergence time was also reduced by priming, particularly hydro-priming. Hydro-priming is therefore a simple, low cost technique for improving seed germination and seedling emergence of sunflower.
24642271|Weathering damage in soybean (Glycine max) seeds wrinkles the cotyledons, cracks the seed coat and causes tissue death. The objective of this study was to assess weathering damage and relate damage severity with seedling symptoms and loss of viability, and show modifications of seed tissues with weathering damage using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Two soybeans seeds lots, cv. 'TMG115-RR', were subjected to X-ray and tetrazolium (TZ) testing and seedling assessment, to assess weathering damage. Moreover, seeds with or without weathering damage were inspected using SEM. X-ray image analysis as well as TZ and seedling assessment tests confirmed that weathering damage interfered with seed physiological potential, varying according to the extent and location of the damage. SEM images showed that the seed coat hourglass cells occurred near the hilum region and gradually decreased until they disappeared opposite to the hilum region, a region where typical wrinkles caused by weathering damage are observed. On the cotyledons, the cells in damaged seeds appeared lengthened and compressed, probably accounting for cell death in the damaged region. Danos por umidade em sementes de soja (Glycine max) causam enrugamento nos cotildones, rachaduras no tegumento e pode causar a morte dos tecidos das sementes. O objetivo deste estudo foi avaliar danos por umidade em sementes de soja e relacionar a severidade do dano com sintomas em plntulas e perda de viabilidade, alm de avaliar as modificaes nos tecidos das sementes danificadas por meio da microscopia eletrnica de varredura (SEM). Dois lotes de sementes de soja, cultivar TMG115-RR, foram submetidos ao teste de raios X e de tetrazlio ou  avaliao de plntulas para avaliar os danos por umidade. Alm disso, sementes com e sem danos por umidade foram submetidas ao SEM. Os resultados mostraram que a anlise de imagens por meio de raios X, o teste de tetrazlio e a avaliao de plntulas confirmaram que o dano por umidade interfere no potencial fisiolgico das sementes dependendo da extenso e localizao destes. Por meio das imagens de microscopia eletrnica de varredura foi verificada a presena de "clulas em forma de ampulheta" na regio prxima ao hilo a qual decresce at o total desaparecimento na regio oposta ao hilo, regio onde usualmente so observados sintomas tpicos de enrugamento causados pelos danos por umidade. Nos cotildones, as clulas de sementes danificadas se apresentam alongadas e comprimidas, o que provavelmente  a razo da morte celular na regio danificada.
24642273|Oregon is well known for seed production of the amenity grasses Poa pratensis (Kentucky bluegrass) and P. trivialis (rough bluegrass). However, little is known about weed seed and ergot contamination of certified Oregon Poa spp. seed. This study was conducted to assess the diversity and frequency of occurrence of weed seeds and sclerotia of the fungus Claviceps purpurea (ergot) in certified seed lots of P. pratensis and P. trivialis based on purity analysis at the Oregon State University Seed Laboratory during 19861995 and 20022012. For P. pratensis, 155 different weed seed contaminants were detected, with 113 identified to species, 39 to genus and 3 to family. For P. trivialis, 26 contaminants were identified to species and 14 to genus. Between 20022012, the percentage of seed lots per year with no weed contaminants ranged from 4875% and 4368% for P. pratensis and P. trivialis, respectively, indicating consistent high quality standards for Oregon certified seed. Between 19852012, the number of new contaminants in P. pratensis increased at the rate of three per year. In P. trivialis, only one new contaminant species was detected after 2007. The percentage of P. pratensis or P. trivialis seed lots with ergot ranged from 2261%, and 010% respectively, depending on year. This study documented a wide and increasing diversity of weed seed contaminants, especially in P. pratensis, and revealed that although the level of ergot from year to year is variable, ergot remains a persistent problem in P. pratensis seed production fields and as a post-harvest seed contaminant.
24642272|Iso-osmotic potentials using PEG-6000 and NaCl solutions (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 bar) were used for germination of Thymus fedtschenkoi, T. migricus and T. daenensis. At iso-osmotic potentials, seeds in saline solutions germinated at a higher rate compared to those incubated in PEG-6000 solutions. Germination significantly decreased at 4 bar and dropped to zero at 10 bar under drought, while under salinity it decreased at 8 bar but did not fall to zero even at 12 bar. Under both salinity and drought, effects on germination and seedling development parameters were the same at low stress levels (2 bar), but differed at higher stress levels. When exposed to salinity stress, germination of T. migricus was lower than that of T. daenensis and T. fedtschenkoi. Root branching decreased due to both drought and salinity, and the maximum number of secondary roots was observed in T. daenensis seedlings, while the lowest was observed in T. fedtschenkoi seedlings. Early seedling growth was more sensitive to drought and salinity than seed germination. Germination and early growth of thyme seedlings was more sensitive to drought than salinity. Differences in response of seeds and seedlings to drought and salinity at the same osmotic potential was probably due to differences in molecular size of PEG and NaCl, resulting in different rates of entrance of these molecules into cells, consequently affecting water uptake of cells.
24642269|Hyacinth bean is a legume used as a vegetable, forage and ornamental plant. Many accessions do not flower during their juvenile period in Byron, Georgia. Other accessions produce few seeds when regenerated in the field. This study was conducted to develop a hydroponic cloning and nutrient film technique (NFT) for seed regeneration from juvenile, freeze-sensitive hyacinth bean accessions and a low seed-producing accession. Twenty-five juvenile and freeze-sensitive accessions were planted at Byron, GA during 2011. Four mature stem cuttings per accession with 3 true leaves were placed in a hydroponic cloning system inside a greenhouse during the fall of 2011. Most cuttings developed healthy root systems after 12 weeks. Two to 4 well-developed stem cuttings per accession were transplanted to potting soil and placed in a greenhouse. Fourteen 30-d-old seedlings from a low seed-producing accession grown in potting soil were placed in an NFT system inside a high tunnel during the first week of May, 2011. Seed numbers ranging from 20 to 1,127 per accession were regenerated from clones, while 1,629 seeds were regenerated from plants growing in the NFT system. The coefficient of variation for seed number was 59%, indicating fairly low variation. Cluster analysis grouped most accessions into well-defined phenotypes based on plant size. Principal component analysis indicated that the first principal component was most correlated with branching and seed yield. Hydroponic cloning and NFT were successful in rescuing juvenile and freeze-sensitive accessions for seed regeneration and consequent evaluation of phenotypic variation.
23433355|Seeds of three varieties of cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata), cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis), canola (Brassica napus), sugar beet (Beta vulgaris), pak-choi (Brassica compestris) and radish (Raphanus sativus) were investigated for their germination percentage, germination rate (1/t50, where t50 is the time to 50% of germination), root and shoot lengths, Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations (ions lost during soaking for 36 h in different NaCl solutions) in four salinity treatments including 0.0 (control), 4.7, 9.4 and 14.1 dS m-1 NaCl. Linear regression revealed a significant negative relationship between salinity and germination percentage, germination rate, root length, shoot length and Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations. There was a positive relationship between salinity and Na+ concentrations. Multiple regression equations were developed to predict the relationship between chemical factors (ions leached from seeds due to salinity) and biological parameters (germination percentage, germination rate and root and shoot lengths affected by salt stress). These equations show that Na+ had a significant negative relationship with germination rate, but a significant positive relationship was observed between Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations and germination rate. It was shown that root length had a significant negative relationship with Na+, but a significant positive relationship existed with Ca2+. Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ had a significant negative relationship with shoot length. A non-significant relationship was found between Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations with germination percentage. These equations provide a simple and rapid method based on chemical analysis and germination tests for determining salt tolerance in different vegetables.
23433359|Germination properties, including germination rate, germination percentage and cardinal temperatures, of eight wild medicinal species from Iran were studied. The seeds of the eight medicinal plants were exposed to germination temperature treatments ranging from of 5 to 35 C consisting of seven constant and three alternating temperature regimes. A linear model was applied to describe the germination rate-temperature relationship. The species studied using constant germination temperatures showed the highest germination percentages in the range of 2030 C for Nepeta binaludensis and Nepeta crassifolia, 1520 C for Zataria multiflora, 2025 C for Nepeta glomerulosa, 2530 C for Dysphania botrys and 1530 C for Thymus kotschyanus, Rubia tinctorum and Achillea millefolium ssp. elburensis. The highest germination percentage and germination rate were observed at alternating temperatures of 2030 C for Nepeta binaludensis, 1020 C for Zataria multiflora, Thymus kotschyanus, Nepeta glomerulosa and Nepeta crassifolia, and, 1020, 2030 C, for Dysphania botrys. The various species showed clear differences in the temperature requirements of their seed for germination. Both germination percentage and rate were higher at constant than alternating temperatures. The highest base (Tb C) and optimum temperatures (To C) were observed in Dysphania botrys, while the highest critical temperature (Tc C) was recorded for Rubia tinctorum. There was a positive linear relation between temperature at which the highest germination percentage was obtained at To, but this relationship was negative for Tb.
23433352|The effect of harvesting and processing operations on the quality of hybrid maize seeds was studied to identify those operations that cause the greatest damage. Three single-cross maize hybrids, 'Ulla', 'Benicia' and 'Dea', differing in their susceptibility to mechanical damage, were subjected to manual and mechanical processing during harvesting to grading. Following processing, seeds were stored at -20 C and at ambient temperate room conditions. Standard germination, accelerated aging and two cold tests were performed every four months to assess seed quality over a 15-month storage period. The post-shelling operations of cleaning and grading caused the greatest damage. More than all other operations combined, grading caused the most damage to round seeds, irrespective of the degree of susceptibility. Mechanical damage affected seed storability more than viability and vigor. Flat and large seeds were more tolerant to mechanical damage than round and medium-sized seeds. Seed shape influenced susceptibility to mechanical damage much more than seed size.
23433357|Fruit and seed development in Acer caesium is described for trees growing in montane, temperate forests of the western Himalayas of India. Fruits of A. caesium were harvested during 1997 and 1998 at biweekly intervals after anthesis until maturity. Changes in physical characteristics of samaras and the percent seed germination during developmental stages were recorded. Seeds matured around 210225 days after anthesis (DAA). With maturation, pericarps and testae turned dark brown in color. This stage coincides with minimum fruit and seed moisture content and maximum germination percentage. Moisture content in both intact samaras and seed (hulled) showed an abrupt decline during the final phase of maturation and stabilized around 1214% in mature seed. Dry weight accumulation ceased before seed attained physiological maturity. The study revealed that A. caesium seeds underwent a tri-phasic development, that is, growth, reserve accumulation and desiccation.
23433360|Successful propagation of Selinum wallichianum, a high value medicinal plant of the Himalaya, requires development of methods to overcome its seed dormancy. While seeds collected from alpine and subalpine provenances spanning the range of this species were found to be viable, only 46.7% and 24.5%, respectively, of the seeds germinated without any pre-sowing treatment. Chilling (4 C) for 14 days improved the germination percentage of seed from both provenances compared to the control. Also, 100 ppm KNO3 pre-treatment for alpine and 500 ppm for subalpine seeds improved the percent germination significantly over the control. Higher concentrations of KNO3 (> 500 ppm), however, reduced the percent germination of seeds from both provenances. Use of 100 ppm GA3 improved the germination percentage and lowered the mean germination time (MGT) compared to the control for seeds from both provenances. Improved germination responses to chilling treatments corresponds well with natural conditions where S. wallichianum seeds are covered with snow during the winter. Response to chilling and GA3 treatment implies Intermediate Complex Morpho-Physiological Dormancy (MPD) of S. wallichianum seeds.
23433356|The ability to predict the number of days for seeds of four Hypericum species (H. perforatum, H. bupleuroides, H. nummularioides and H. pruinatum) to germinate was investigated by using mathematical models based on temperature. A model, D = a - (b  T) + (c  T2), was used that previously predicted the time to emergence in relation to temperature for some vegetable crops and was unchanged when applied to the Hypericum spp. In addition to determining optimum seed germination temperature (T0 = -b/2  c) in the tested species, days to germination was calculated by using coefficients obtained from regression models. Considering the marked interest by many researchers in modeling plant growth and development in recent years, the equations produced in this study may be helpful in this field. Models that predict days to germination or optimum temperatures could be used to adjust for an optimal time for sowing seed in different regions and thereby utilizing the growing season of these regions more productively.
23433353|An enzyme that rapidly catalyzed the hydrolysis of denatured DNA was partially purified from germinated gram (Cicer arietinum) seeds and its molecular weight was found to be 45,000. The nuclease was studied for its endonucleolytic activity in comparison to single-strand-specific nuclease from germinated pea (Pisum sativum) seeds. As with pea seed nuclease, the gram seed nuclease exhibited an affinity towards single-stranded DNA and showed a higher affinity towards depurinated DNA. The temperature optima of both enzymes fall in the same range (40 C for heat denatured DNA and 60 C for native DNA). The nucleases from gram and pea seedlings degraded native DNA in a similar fashion at elevated temperature and exhibited maximum activity at pH 7.5. Both enzymes were affected by the same chemical agents among which Mg2+ and Ca2+ had stimulatory effects. However, Mn2+ and EDTA had no effect, and Zn2+ and 8-hydroxyquinoline were inhibitory on both nucleases. Under high salt concentration, enzymatic activity of both enzymes was inhibited. Native, denatured, alkylated, depurinated and crosslinked DNA were also tested as substrates for nuclease activity with pancreatic DNAase I, which degraded all DNA substrates at approximately equal rates. The degradation of native DNA by gram and pea seed nucleases was only 4 and 5%, respectively, in comparison with that of denatured, alkylated, or depurinated DNA; whereas, crosslinked DNA was not degraded by either gram or pea seed nucleases. These data suggest that the enzyme from germinated gram seeds is a single-strand-specific deoxyribonuclease.
23433358|Small broomrape (Orobanche minor) is an obligate parasitic weed that attacks the roots of a wide range of broadleaf crops, resulting in varying degrees of economic loss. Red clover (Trifolium pratense) is one of the most common host plants that can suffer considerable yield reduction, particularly with heavy Orobanche infestation. The objective of this study was to develop a laboratory test to detect the presence of Orobanche seed in red clover. The test was based on differences in seed size and density between red clover and broomrape. The recommended procedure for detection of Orobanche in red clover includes two main steps: 1) separation of Orobanche seeds from red clover by screening samples through a round-hole perforation sieve with a hole diameter of 1.04 mm using a seed shaker; and 2) visual examination of the screened portion using a microscope with a 40X magnification to detect the presence of Orobanche seed. Knowledge of seed color, shape, and texture of Orobanche is critical for proper identification. The test can detect the presence of one Orobanche seed in 453 g (1 seed/lb) red clover seed, which is the recommended working sample size for the test.
23433354|Crop production faces stringent problems due to increased salinity, but salt tolerance can be induced effectively by pre-sowing seed treatments. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of pre-sowing seed treatments on germination and vigor of wheat (Triticum aestivum) cv. 'MH-97' under saline and non-saline conditions. Seeds were subjected to hydropriming, osmoconditioning, halopriming with CaCl2.2H2O (50 mol m-3) and NaCl (50 mol m-3), chilling (-19 C) or hardening (one cycle) for 12 h. All of the invigoration techniques except osmoconditioning and hardening were effective in alleviating adverse effects of salt stress on wheat at germination. Hydropriming proved to be the most effective followed by halopriming with CaCl2.2H2O, NaCl and chilling treatments as expressed by the final germination percentage, root and shoot dry weight, root and shoot length and root-shoot ratio. The concentration of Na+ and K+ increased more in seedlings sown under saline conditions than under non-saline conditions. The Na+ concentration of seedlings was significantly increased by NaCl priming while other treatments had no effect on Na+ or K+ concentration. This study indicated that wheat grown under saline conditions can be improved by pre-sowing seed treatments.
23433638|Eastern gamagrass [Tripsacum dactyloides (L.) L.] is a warm-season, perennial grass native to large areas across North America. Plantings are commonly established from seed, but seed quality is a barrier to establishment. The objective here is to review the standard laboratory purity method and to outline a germination protocol that can be used for routine assessment of eastern gamagrass seed lots for planting purposes. A survey of 21 laboratories determined that at least 9 germination procedures are currently in use. A comparison of a single seed lot as reported by 10 laboratories was used to determine variation in test results. Additional seed lots were germinated on substrates with and without KNO3 and subjected to prechilling and presoaking treatments. Based on the results presented here, a preliminary germination method using between blotters, blotter-lined Petri dishes or rolled towels as the substrate, and a germination temperature regime of alternating 20/30C, with count dates of 7 and 14 d is recommended for routine laboratory analysis.
23433639|Seed osmopriming can be a sustainable method of improving crop establishment, uniform emergence and field growth. Laboratory and greenhouse studies were carried out during the 2010 cropping season in Sokoto, Nigeria, to study the effect of seed osmopriming duration on the germination, emergence and growth of sorghum seeds. Treatments consisted of 3 osmopriming durations (imbibing seeds in 1% KNO3 salt solutions for 6, 8 and 10 h), a hydropriming treatment (imbibition in water for 10 h) and an unprimed control. Treatments were laid out in a completely randomized design replicated 4 times. Osmopriming and hydropriming resulted in higher seed germination, emergence, plant height and dry matter accumulation compared to the unprimed control. Both hydropriming and osmopriming of sorghum seed can be used for improved field performance. However, osmopriming in KNO3 salt solutions for at least 6 h resulted in better field establishment and seedling growth than hydropriming.
23433640|Canebrakes [stands of Arundinaria gigantea (Walter) Muhl.] provide important wildlife habitat, promote stream bank stabilization and improve water quality, making them ideal focal points for riparian restoration projects. However, availability of viable seeds for seedling production is limited due to infrequent flowering events, naturally low seed viability, the recalcitrant nature of seeds and failure of flowering stands to produce seeds. The purpose of this study was to examine seed storage methods that can extend stored seed viability and germination for future use in rivercane seedling production for restoration programs. To evaluate effect of container type and storage temperature, seed germination percentages were compared for two storage container types, paper and plastic bag, at three storage temperatures, -5, 5, and 21 C, over 5 months. The highest germination was for seeds stored at sub-zero temperatures (-5 C) in plastic bags. Rivercane seed is recalcitrant in nature, requiring storage methods that assure moisture retention and low temperatures that minimize cellular metabolic processes.
23433642|Okra [Abelmoschus esculentus (L.) Moench] is one of the most important vegetable crops grown extensively throughout India during the summer and rainy seasons. Apical bud pinching, or nipping, is a well-known practice for breaking apical dominance to encourage lateral growth, thereby increasing the potential fruiting area. Growth, productivity, and seed quality are increased with pinching at early compared to later stages of growth, providing sufficient time for regeneration of vegetative parts, enhancing production of branches, and also resulting in increased photosynthetic activity, accumulation of more photosynthates, and ultimately resulting in increased seed size and yield. In this paper, the effects of apical pinching on growth, yield and quality of okra are reviewed, with a view to promoting this practice in commercial production, as well as presenting information about associated field management practices and special treatments for obtaining higher okra yields.
23433637|Maintaining the genetic integrity and performance of released cultivars over multiple generations of seed increase continues to be of concern in cross-pollinating grasses. It is not an uncommon practice when seed supplies are low or foundation seed is not available to designate registered seed as foundation seed (re-foundationed), which adds one or more certified generations to the cultivar. Russian wildrye [Psathyrostachys juncea (Fisch.) Nevski] is a cross-pollinating, cool-season, bunchgrass native to steppe and semidesert regions of Eurasia. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was used to test the effect of additional generations on the molecular genetic diversity and linkage disequilibrium within and among original foundation seed (1986), re-foundationed seed from registered seed (1992) and certified seed (2002) of the cultivar 'Bozoisky-Select', along with cultivars 'Vinall' and 'Mankota'. Average similarity coefficients within generations fell from 0.6031 in original foundation seed to 0.5920 in certified seed four generations later, while the average similarity coefficient between generations fell from 0.6031 to 0.5826, respectively. Principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) grouped individuals of Vinall and Mankota into their respective groups, and grouped all Bozoisky-Select individuals into one indivisible group. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) trended toward a loss of LD over generations of seed production, but the change was not significant. Although there were slight decreases in genetic similarity over four generations of seed production, the changes were not enough to cause subdivisions of Bozoisky-Select seed using PCoA. The re-foundation of seed from registered seed in 1992 did not result in significantly decreased LD in the 2002 certified Bozoisky-Select seed.
23433634|A laboratory experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of halo priming on germination, seedling growth and lipid peroxidation of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seeds under salinity stress. The experimental design was a two-factor factorial arranged in a completely randomized design, with six replications. The first factor was salinity level (0 and 100 mmol NaCl) and the second was priming treatment (1, 2 and 3% NaCl and KNO3 solutions). Under salinity stress, seed priming significantly improved germination and seedling fresh weight and decreased mean germination time and lipid peroxidation, compared to the control. Seed priming with 1 and 2% solutions of KNO3 significantly improved germination, seedling growth, and peroxidase activity, and decreased lipid peroxidation compared to NaCl priming. Potassium nitrate priming treatments are simple, cheap and do not involve expensive chemicals and sophisticated equipment.
23433636|Group testing methods are used for classifying and estimating a proportion when the response is binary (0 or 1) and the proportion to be estimated is lower than 10%. Group testing techniques are becoming increasingly popular due to their considerable savings in time and money compared to more traditional testing methods. Until now, group testing formulas derived for determining sample size when classifying or estimating a proportion have been based on the assumption of an infinite population. However, in many cases, the population is finite and appropriate formulas are needed to determine sample size. For this reason, a new formula is proposed to determine the required sample size for estimating the proportion (p) that ensures narrow confidence intervals (CI) in finite populations with imperfect diagnostic tests (tests whose sensitivity and specificity are less than 100%). With this formula there is a  probability that the (1-)100% confidence interval will be narrower than a specified value, . The proposed formula determines the number of groups (gF) needed to estimate the proportion of interest and ensures with high probability that the observed CI will be narrower than . We show how to use the proposed formula and provide tables relevant for practical applications. Finally, we present an R program that may be used to determine sample size for finite group testing problems.
23433641|A recent Brazilian law (IN no. 1 of February, 2010) regulated the use of agrochemicals for crops classified as minor crops, i.e., small-scale crops that do not generate enough economic returns to justify investments in developing specialized pest control products by the chemical industry. The law was a step forward in the use and control of agrochemicals for species that previously had no approved pesticides, and for which producers often used either inappropriate or contraband products to satisfy pesticide needs. Unfortunately, this inappropriate use is still the case regarding seed treatment, and it negatively impacts seed and crop exports. It also diverges from appropriate crop production methods that utilize environmentally sound practices with minimal use of pesticides per unit area. A law addressing minor uses for seed treatment is of fundamental importance, and the recent development of laws regulating minor uses of products for crops of lower economic importance is an important step towards extending these minor uses to seed treatment.
23433635|Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is widely grown across Nigeria, but there is a dearth of information on best production practices yielding high quality seeds of improved varieties, which is indispensable for increasing productivity. Field experiments were conducted during the growing seasons of 2008 and 2009 at Ilorin, Southern Guinea Savanna of Nigeria to determine appropriate planting dates under rainfed conditions that would yield high quality seed. Five improved varieties were planted over a period of 4 months (June, July, August and September) each year. Data was collected on yield, seed quality and related traits. Significant differences in mean seed yield attributable to plant date effects were detected each year. In 2008, the highest seed yield was recorded for the July planting with a mean value of 1681.35 kg ha-1. In 2009 however, the highest seed yield was recorded for the August planting (1914.49 kg ha-1). In both years, cowpea varieties took longer to attain 50% maturity when planted in August while those planted in September matured earlier than plants from seeds planted in other months. Significantly higher incidence of Choanephora pod rot and Cercospora leaf spot were observed for June plantings each year. Seed lots from August and September plantings resulted in significantly higher germination than those planted in June and July. August was recommended for planting cowpea in Ilorin and its environs for optimum seed yield with high quality, but with continuous monitoring of rainfall patterns.
23433631|The overall aim of seed testing is to give reassurance about seed quality to those involved in international trade in seed and to end-users. The significance and importance of using seed tests based on research and validation before inclusion in the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA), Rules for Seed Testing, is emphasised, with reference to the physiological aspects of seed quality, germination and vigor. The reduced germination rate following aging, as measured by mean germination time (mean delay to radicle emergence), is interpreted as the time needed for the metabolic repair of the deleterious effects of aging before germination can proceed. Evidence in support of this seed aging/repair hypothesis is presented from recent internationally co-ordinated research and by a re-examination of existing vigor tests (accelerated aging, controlled deterioration, cold and cool tests and so-called seedling growth tests). This hypothesis is the basis of a rapid, new vigor test, the radicle emergence (RE) test, which has been validated and introduced to the ISTA Rules for maize. Advantages of the RE test and its application to a wide range of other species are described. Aging not only delays RE but also increases leakage from the seeds, the level of which relates to their ability to produce a normal or abnormal seedling. This leads to the possible application of measurements of leachate conductivity to assess germination and in vigor tests. The potential for using molecular methods to test seed quality through detection of DNA damage, ligase activity and other cellular damage is discussed.
23433397|Genotype discrimination of germplasm collections is an essential function of gene banks, enabling efficient delivery of genetic resources to researchers and the seed industry. Seed morphometric measurement by digital imaging analysis has been identified as a fast and reliable method for this task. In this study, 10 seed morphometric variables, namely seed length, seed width, seed thickness, seed diameter, seed area, embryo angle, shape factor, roundness factor, flatness index and circularity index were determined using captured seed images of 20 accessions of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) landraces from germplasm collections at the National Centre for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (NACGRAB) gene bank, Nigeria. Digital seed metric data were subjected to principal components analysis. Shape factor, seed area, length, width, diameter, roundness factor and flatness index had the highest eigenvectors in the first principal component, which accounted for 72.9% of total variance. These variables thus constitute potential descriptors for cultivar discrimination of pepper seeds by digital imaging analysis. Single linkage clustering analysis based on seed size and shape metrics resulted in two major clusters and two minor clusters of the Nigerian pepper landrace collections. Such clusters constitute a classification tool for genotype discrimination when evaluating cultivar identity by seed metrics, and can thus improve management efficiency of genetic resources for pepper breeding.
23433403|Miscanthus sinensis can propagate through seed. However, there is little information regarding seed germination requirements. The objective of this study was to determine the optimal germination temperature requirements for the species. Seed germination was studied using a two-way thermogradient table without light. The temperature gradient in the table had 30 cells with alternating day/night temperatures and 6 cells with constant temperatures. The constant temperature cells were 10, 16, 22, 28, 34, and 40 C, and the alternating temperature cells were a combination of these same temperatures. Fifteen of the alternating temperatures were higher for 16 h and lower for 8 h. The other 15 alternating temperatures were higher for 8 h and lower for 16 h. Seeds exposed to alternating temperatures showed a higher germination percentage value than those at constant temperatures. The highest germination percentage was recorded in cells with a temperature combination of 16 C for 16 h and 22 C for 8 h. These results are important to seed analysts developing a standard germination protocol for Miscanthus sinensis seed.
23433400|Enumerating seeds present in the soil is an element of many studies in disparate fields. Chemical flotation, in which target material is floated to the top of a liquid solution, is a common methodology for recovering seeds from the soil. Traditionally, target material is then decanted from the flotation solution by repeatedly skimming the surface with a net. However, this traditional method can be biased toward species with low relative densities. This study reports on the development of a novel method of decantationthe valve methodand compares its performance to the traditional net-skimming methodology. Specifically, we compared effectiveness (proportion of seeds recovered from a known sample), rapidity (time required to decant that sample), efficiency (number of seeds decanted per second), and recovery bias (effect of relative density on seed recovery). We used each methodology to decant a flotation solution containing a known quantity of soil and seeds (20 replicates per method). Our proposed method was approximately 6% more effective, 425% more rapid, 447% more efficient, and significantly less biased than the traditional method. The differential results obtained using disparate decantation methods highlighted the importance of decantation in the flotation procedure and underscored the necessity of specifying the method of decantation used in any research employing chemical flotation. Any future work relying on flotation to analyze seed banks should clearly describe how samples were decanted and should consider the valve method as a potential means of enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of chemical flotation.
23433399|Nearly all of the bentgrass seed grown in the United States is produced in Oregon. However, little is known about the occurrence of weed seed or pathogen propagule contaminants in bentgrass seed lots. This study was conducted to assess the diversity and frequency of occurrence of weed seeds, ergot (Claviceps purpurea), and seed galls (Anguina agrostis) in colonial (Agrostis capillaris L.) and creeping [Agrostis stolonifera L. var. palustris (Huds.) Farw.] bentgrass certified seed lot samples submitted to the Oregon State University Seed Laboratory during 19861995 and 20022010 for purity analysis. For colonial bentgrass, 115 different weed seed contaminants were detected, with 79 identified to species, 35 to genus and 1 to family. For creeping bentgrass, 60 weed seed contaminants were identified to species, 29 to genus, and 3 to family. The percentage of seed lots per year with no weed contaminants ranged from 13% to 50% and 47% to 84% for colonial bentgrass and creeping bentgrass lots, respectively, depending on year. The number of new weed seed contaminants in colonial and creeping bentgrass increased at a rate of 2.7 and 1.9 per year, respectively. During 20022010, the percentage of seed lots with ergot per year was 4477% for colonial bentgrass and 1630% for creeping bentgrass. Seed galls were found in 215% of colonial bentgrass seed lots, but were not detected in creeping bentgrass. This study revealed a wide and increasing diversity of weed seed contaminants in colonial and creeping bentgrass, and provided evidence of increasing ergot severity in colonial bentgrass.
23433406|This article is a translation of Lakon's paper published in 1942, which is still cited but inaccessible to most scientists. Lakon's paper was a significant milestone in the history of botany and provided technical descriptions of experiments which are still relevant today. Live seeds and dead seeds are often indistinguishable using the unaided eye. This paper describes the origin and useful technical details about topological seed testing using the vital stain 2, 3, 5-triphenyl-tetrazolium-chloride (tetrazolium testing), which have previously had very limited circulation. This is because the research was originally published in a minor regional journal which, to complicate matters, suffered from reduced circulation during the 19391945 world conflict. The culture of science also changed after 1945, and while it was common for prewar research to be published in German, modern botanists today prefer to publish technical manuscripts in English.
23433405|The tetrazolium (TZ) test is a quick and potentially precise method for estimating seed viability. However, its efficiency depends on adapting the methodology for each species. The objective of this study was to determine the best seed preparation methodology for TZ testing of sunn hemp (Crotalaria juncea L.) seeds, as well as establish staining patterns for estimating seed viability. Four seed preparation methods were studied for staining: seed coat removal; longitudinal cross-section cut through the embryonic axis without seed coat removal; longitudinal cut in the distal region of the embryo axis, from the thick-end of the seed through the cotyledons; and transversal cut in the distal region of the embryo axis, across the seed width through the cotyledons. Of the preparation methods studied, the most promising was seed coat removal. Staining patterns of seeds prepared in this manner could be easily classified into three classes. Class 1 included viable, vigorous seeds, class 2 included viable, non-vigorous seeds, and class 3 included non-viable seeds. Therefore, the TZ test with seeds prepared by removing the seed coat is a promising alternative for identifying possible causes of seed viability loss in production systems.
23433398|Initial seed moisture content (SMC) and temperature during seed imbibition can interfere with the electrical conductivity (EC) test results. This study aimed to evaluate soaking solution temperature and SMC on results of the EC test of common bean seeds. For this purpose, two experiments were conducted. The first used five seed lots to determine the physiological potential and the initial SMC of seeds. The SMC of the lots was then adjusted to 9, 11, 13, 15 and 17%, and seeds subjected to the EC test. The second experiment used four seed lots to evaluate the effect of water temperatures of 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 C, before and during imbibition, on EC test results. The EC readings in the first experiment decreased as SMC increased from 9 to 17%, but these values tended to stabilize at SMC higher than 11%. In the second experiment, EC values increased with increasing imbibition water temperature, with the highest values and lowest vigor observed when seeds were imbibed at 30 C. Therefore, the EC test for common bean seeds should be done with seeds at moisture contents between 11 and 15% and a temperature of 25 C during seed imbibition.
23433401|Seed quality, prechilling and temperature affect longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill.) seed cumulative germination and germination speed. Seedlots were grouped into germination classes according to seed quality based on their original laboratory germination, then subjected to different soak methods (water and benomyl), prechilling periods (0, 7, 14, 28, 42, 63 d) and germination temperatures (15, 20, 22, 25, 30 C). Seed quality and germination temperature explained 34% and 31% of cumulative germination variation, respectively, while prechilling explained 1.1%. For speed of germination, seed quality was less important (2.1%) than germination temperature (51%) and prechill factors (24%) in explaining variation. At 0, 7 and 14 d of prechilling, the best temperatures were 15 and 20 C. Germination of poor quality seeds did not improve when prechilling exceeded 7 d. When germination class, prechill length and temperature were combined, high quality seeds responded best to prechilling of 14 to 28 d at optimal temperatures (15 to 22 C). Highly vigorous seeds germinated in the first week following 28 d of prechilling, while low and medium vigor seeds required 42 or 63 d of prechilling. Seed vigor was negated with 42 d of prechilling. Germination speed was reduced from 13 d at 15 C to 5 d at 30 C, even though cumulative germination was lower. The best overall combination to maximize germination rate was 28 d of prechill at 22 C to reach 50% germination in 7 d, with a final germination of 74.9%.
23433404|Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) is a commonly used turfgrass in the temperate climates of the United States. The grass is predominantly established from sod because of its slow germination (21 d). Ultraviolet (UV) light has been noted to enhance germination speed of other crops and it may similarly enhance Kentucky bluegrass germination. Turfgrass seeds from two seed lots were placed in two separate germination chambers and set on an 8 h light/16 h dark schedule. One chamber received only visible light while the other received a supplemental UV light treatment (11.2 kJ m-2 d-1). The treatments were applied for 21 d. Seed germination was counted at 7, 14 and 21 d. Ultraviolet light increased germination capacity and speed in the newer but not older seed lot. Seed germination was greater (p  0.05) at day 7, and after 21 d germination was higher in UV light conditions than in control. These results suggest that treatment of bluegrass seed with UV light may enhance germination, although seed age may override the effect.
23433395|Lindera melissifolia (Walter) Blume, or pondberry, is federally listed as an endangered shrub and grows in warm, humid lowland forests of seven states in the southeastern United States. The dioecious plants usually form clonal colonies as a result of rhizome sprouting. Although L. melissifolia can annually produce many bright red spicy scented drupes, information on reproduction of the species is limited to its clonal regenerative capabilities. We examined the survival of L. melissifolia seeds held within bags for up to 1 y in a soil seed bank. Half of the bags were buried and the other half left on the soil surface. Additionally, bags contained seeds either with the oily fruit pulp removed or with drupes left intact. Results indicated that the presence or absence of the pulp does not significantly affect seed survival. However, the viability of buried seeds was greater than 50% by the end of 1 y, whereas over 70% of the seeds left on the surface were rotten or missing. Buried seeds were seven times more likely to produce seedlings in the field than those left on the soil surface. Because L. melissifolia seedlings are not often observed in naturally occurring populations despite the production of viable seeds, it is likely that environmental conditions or other biotic factors limit the field distribution and sustainability of seedlings.
23433402|Hybridity of a seed lot can be improved by precision seed sorting when seed sizes of the inbred lines vary significantly. In this study, eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) hybrid seed from a leading hybrid (No. 1461734) were used. Seed sizes of the male parent and the hybrid lots were comparatively bigger than the female parent. The hybrid seed lot was subjected to a plant grow-out (PGO) test which showed that the hybrid seed lot was of low genetic purity. A physical purity test of the same lot showed that it contained 20% small seeds, which were then removed and effect of removal evaluated. The proportion of small seeds present clearly indicated the admixture of selfs in the hybrid seed lot. With the objective of removing these smaller seeds to improve hybridity of the seed lot, 10 different screen sizes were tried at the bottom of a gravity separator. Seed was sorted using a screen mesh size of 4.0 mm (round) on top, 3.5 mm (round) in the middle, and 10 variable sizes on the bottom. The 0.9 mm (slotted) bottom screen resulted in significantly higher hybridity (95.57%) when re-tested using the PGO test compared to other screen sizes and the control (81.00%). The 2.0 mm (round) mesh bottom screen significantly increased germination (79%) and usable transplants (76%) compared to other screens and the control (61 and 59%, respectively), and is the recommended screen size for sorting this hybrid compared to other bottom screen sizes and the control.
23433396|The use of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) as a forage, conservation, and feedstock species is limited by its slow and erratic germination and inconsistent establishment, further exacerbated by variable soil moisture conditions. An in vitro study was conducted to determine osmotic stress effects on germination properties of four switchgrass cultivars, 'Alamo', 'Cave-in-Rock', 'Kanlow' and 'Shelter'. Seeds were tested for germination in polyethylene glycol (PEG 8000) solutions at water potentials ranging from 0 to -2.0 MPa with 0.2-MPa increments, at 25 C. Six replicates of 100 stratified seeds were germinated and monitored at 6-h intervals from incubation. Maximum seed germination (MSG) and germination rate were estimated by fitting a 3-parameter sigmoidal function to germination time, which provided germination percentage, response shape and germination speed. Decreased osmotic potentials decreased MSG, while the time required for onset of germination increased across all cultivars. A cultivar by osmotic potential interaction for MSG (p < 0.0001) was observed. Cave-in-Rock had the greatest MSG followed by Shelter, up to -0.2 MPa. Responses were further analyzed by ecotype due to similar responses of Alamo and Kanlow (lowland ecotypes) and Cave-in-Rock and Shelter (upland ecotypes). Ecotypes differed in median germination (p < 0.0001) and germination rate (p < 0.0001). Lowland ecotypes required 27% more time (24 h) to achieve 50% of MSG than upland ecotypes. Germination rate decreased with decreasing osmotic potential for both ecotypes. The developed ecotype-specific algorithms can be used in modeling germination under variable moisture conditions among switchgrass cultivars.
23433493|The effect of differential rates of drying on viability was examined in mature seeds of sal (Shorea robusta C.F. Gaertn) during storage at ambient conditions. The initial seed moisture content (fwb) was 42.1% and the percentage of seed germination was determined after drying slowly (air-dried naturally) and rapidly (over silica gel) compared to seeds held in vermiculite. Seeds became non-viable when desiccated to 19.5% and 9.8% moisture content in natural (slow) and silica gel (rapid) drying, respectively. The seeds dried rapidly over silica gel retained higher germination (33%) at lower moisture content (13.3%) compared to the natural drying. Wet storage in vermiculite was not successful and eventually led to loss of seed viability despite higher moisture contents. Storage experiments carried out with undried (42.1%) and rapidly dried (37.5, 34.9, 31.8, 25.4 and 21.0% moisture content) seeds at temperatures of -196, -20, 0, 15 and 25C, showed maximum viability for undried seeds at 15C. The undried and dried seeds could not tolerate freezing, sub-freezing and cryo-temperatures and were killed within one day of storage. Results suggest that rapid drying of recalcitrant S. robusta seeds to lower moisture levels excludes the possibility of desiccation induced damage compared to the naturally dried seeds, though the long-term storage of these rapidly dried seeds at various temperatures was not possible.
23433495|Hydrotime is a way to describe the relationship between water potential () and seed germination rates and percentages. The minimum  that allows germination to be completed is called the base water potential (b). The germination rate (inverse of time to radicle emergence) increases linearly as the seed  increases above b to its maximum rate in water ( = 0 MPa). As b values vary among individual seeds, germination rates also vary, resulting in lack of uniformity that can be quantified by the standard deviation in b values ${\mathrm{\sigma }}_{{\mathrm{\psi }}_{\mathrm{b}}}$. The hydrotime constant (H) indicates the inherent speed of germination in a seed lot. Thus, hydrotime analysis quantifies the speed of germination (H), the stress tolerance of germination (b) and the uniformity of germination for a seed lot ${\mathrm{\sigma }}_{{\mathrm{\psi }}_{\mathrm{b}}}$, which are all useful indicators of seed vigor. Hydrotime analysis of seed lots under diverse conditions allows them to be ranked according to their potential for successful emergence. It is also a valuable tool for developing and assessing seed enhancement treatments such as pelleting and priming. Hydrotime analysis can be simplified into an endpoint test that could be useful for ranking seed lots according to vigor and for diagnosing seed lot potential under stressful conditions.
23433492|Orchard produced seeds of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Sarg.) clones were subject to standard germination (20 clones) and accelerated aging (12 clones) tests. Based on the first test, strong genetic control over the germination attributes (germination capacity, germination value, peak value and germination speed) was found as indicated by the high values for broad-sense heritabilities ranging from 0.88 to 0.92 and from 0.72 to 0.85 for stratified and unstratified seeds, respectively. Seed stratification increased the speed of germination, but had no effect on germination capacity. In the accelerated aging test, seeds were exposed to 37.5C and 100% relative humidity for 0 to 15 days at 3-day intervals and then germinated with or without stratification. Accelerated aging had significant effect on all germination attributes and accounted for between 32.3 to 88.3% of the total variation. The ability to germinate decreased at different rates across the clones as aging progressed. Stratification improved germination capacity of seeds aged for three days compared to unstratified seeds aged for the same period, but showed no benefits with respect to any germination attribute after three days of aging. Germination of stratified seeds was progressively more delayed as the duration of aging increased while germination speed of unstratified seed increased after three and six days of aging and decreased thereafter. Results have implications for the management of western hemlock genetic resources at the level of commercial seedling production and with respect to the use of seed banks for ex situ gene conservation of this species.
23433489|Surveillance, sampling, and testing for federally listed noxious weeds costs the United States Department of Agriculture substantial amounts of money every year. Because some species of noxious weeds look like related crop species, visual identifications of the seeds are not always accurate. Reversed-Phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (RP-HPLC) of cereal grain proteins has received much attention in recent years as a quick and efficient means of seed identification. A study of Avena abyssinica Hochst., Avena barbata Pott ex Link, Avena fatua L., Avena longiglumis Durieu, Avena sterilis L., Avena strigosa Schreb., Avena hybrids, Oryza sativa L., Oryza longistaminata A. Chev. and Roehr, Oryza punctata Kotschy ex Steud., and Oryza rufipogon Griff. was undertaken to determine if RP-HPLC could be adapted to the identification of these species. Prolamin and glutelin protein fractions of single seed extracts were separated using liquid chromatography and the chromatograms of the species were compared. It was demonstrated that all the species studied had distinct peak patterns, which enable them to be identified. Protein analysis of Avena hybrids appears to provide information of the parentage of those seeds. Dichotomous keys were developed to enhance the interpretation of the peak differences in the species chromatograms. RP-HPLC was shown to be a quick, repeatable and reliable method of Avena and Oryza species identification.
23433496|Compared to untreated seeds, primed seeds (depending on the species and treatment) have increased speed and uniformity of emergence, but one clear drawback is that their shelf life is reduced. In recent years, methods were developed to improve longevity after priming, building on experience gained in research on induction of desiccation tolerance of pregerminated seeds. The benefits and limitations of priming and pregermination are discussed. Recently primed and pregerminated seeds have been used as model systems for studies on desiccation tolerance and shelf life and examples of such work are presented.
23433490|Weeping alkaligrass (Puccinellia distans (Jacq.) Parl.) is a small-seeded grass species similar in size to Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) and rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis L.). Two purity methods were compared: 1) the hand separation method (HSM), requiring microscopic examination of each seed unit to insure the presence of at least one caryopsis in each seed unit, and 2) the Uniform Blowing Procedure (UBP) similar to the procedure described in the Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds used for several species of Poa, in which empty and under developed florets are removed mechanically via air stream separation in a General type seed blower. The study was conducted in two phases: Experiment I determined a UBP for weeping alkaligrass that would provide pure seed and pure live seed percentages similar to those obtained with the currently accepted HSM; and Experiment II consisted of a collaborative study among laboratories to validate the UBP as a viable alternative to the HSM for purity testing of weeping alkaligrass. These two experiments demonstrate that use of a mathematical factor of 0.76 in combination with the Kentucky bluegrass blowing point achieves pure seed percentages that are not statistically different from those obtained by the HSM. In addition, the UBP was demonstrated to be a 42% more time efficient method of purity testing among participating laboratories.
23433494|Obtaining uniform stands of vegetable crops in field or greenhouse environments is often challenging. Successful germination and seedling establishment is usually linked to several important factors, including 1) the use of high vigor seed; 2) planting at proper soil depths; 3) sowing into well prepared seedbeds with calibrated seeders and good seed singulation; 4) field selection and planting date decisions; 5) suitable cultivars; and 6) seed treatments. The emphasis of this presentation will be on seed vigor tests for vegetable seeds, yet all the factors listed above are closely tied to the concept of vigor. Definitions of vigor (Hampton and TeKrony, 1995) mainly describe the associated seedling establishment consequences of seed lots that differ in quality. The objectives of this manuscript are to 1) review the benefits of quality vegetable seeds; 2) discuss the connection of seed production and seed enhancement variables to seed vigor; and 3) summarize current and emerging vigor tests used for vegetable crop species.
23433491|Common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) is an important legume crop for feed in the Mediterranean regions where high vigor seed is needed to overcome limited moisture stress at planting time. Early harvesting of common vetch grown for seed may decrease seed losses due to shattering, but may result in reduced seed germination and vigor. Field experiments were conducted to study the effect of maturity stage on seed germination and vigor of common vetch. Pods were harvested at five developmental stages: beginning seed fill (BS), full seed pod (FS), greenish-yellow pod (GY), yellow pod (Y), and brown pod (B). Seeds harvested at different stages were germinated under osmotic stress levels of 0, -0.4, -0.8, -1.2, and -1.6 MPa, and after three accelerated aging (AA) treatments of 39C for 72 h, 39C for 96 h, and 45C for 48 h). Seed germination percentage, germination rate index (GRI), shoot and root lengths, and electrical conductivity of seed leachate (EC) were measured for each of the germination environments. Maximum seed germination, GRI, and shoot and root length under no osmotic stress (0 MPa) were attained when seeds were harvested at or after the GY stage. Delaying seed harvest to the B stage improved seed germination, GRI, shoot and root lengths under osmotic stresses of -0.4 and -0.8 MPa. Maximum germination after AA and the lowest EC values were achieved when seeds were harvested at or after the yellow pod stage. Incubating seeds at 39C for 94 h and at 45C for 48 h under 100% RH were the best AA treatments to discriminate and evaluate seed vigor of common vetch. In conclusion, delaying harvest of common vetch seed until the yellow or brown pod stages may improve seed germination and vigor under a wide range of field conditions.
23433217|The optimum harvest stages for cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. sesquipedalis (L.) Verdc.] are critical to the vegetable market, as well as quality seed production. Pods of 'Lola' cowpea were harvested at two day intervals from 2 to 24 days after anthesis to measure pod and seed characteristics. Fruit and seed maturation occurred in two phases. The pod length and pod weight reached maximum at 12 days after anthesis, which is considered the optimum harvest stage for vegetable use. The maximum germination and vigor index was observed in seeds from pods harvested at 18 days after anthesis, which is considered as physiological maturity and the optimum stage to harvest for use as seed.
23433231|Several environmental conditions, including soil type, soil moisture and planting depth, affect stand establishment of winter canola (Brassica napus L.). The use of polymer coating on other crops has been reported to improve plantability. Therefore, the effects of three polymers (Spectrum Series 100, Spectrum Series 500 and SB 2000) coated on canola seed with three concentrations (0.25, 0.50 and 1.00%) were evaluated in comparison to uncoated seed (control) for standard germination, germination at three moisture stress levels (-0.3, -0.5, -0.7 MPa) and seedling establishment from 0.5 and 1 inch depth in sandy, silt, and clay loam soils. Results showed that all polymers decreased germination significantly and polymer SB 2000 had a greater negative effect than Spectrum Series 100 and 500. Decrease in moisture potential and increase in polymer concentration further decreased germination. Spectrum Series 100 at 0.50% and Spectrum Series 500 at 1.00% concentration increased stand establishment at 0.5 in depth compared to 1 in depth in all three soil types. The results of the study suggest that polymer coating can be used to slow down germination and to estimate actual field stand establishment.
23433213|A method for recovering seeds in soils was developed in collaboration with the United States Department of Transportation. Two approaches were considered: 1) separating seeds via wet-sieving and 2) seedling grow-out tests. Three types of samples were included: field topsoil, commercial topsoil and municipal compost. The wet-sieving procedure used sodium hexametaphosphate to disperse soil samples. Samples were washed through a set of three sieves with decreasing mesh diameters. Seeds collected from each of the sieves were sorted by hand, identified and counted by species. For the seedling grow-out tests, soils collected from sieves and the catchment bucket, as well as unsieved soil samples, were saturated with a solution containing gibberellic acid and potassium nitrate, then kept moistened under green-house conditions for 28 d. Seeds of 23 weed species were found in the commercial topsoils using the wet-sieving technique, seven of which are on the Utah noxious weed list. A higher percentage of the seeds present were retrieved from smaller samples (40 cm3). Seedling grow-out tests were laborious and failed to detect as many seeds and species as the wet-sieving procedure. Results of this study suggest that screening procedures can effectively identify and quantify weed seeds in soils, but confirm that seedling grow-out tests are impractical. As experts in seed identification, seed analysts may be the ideal group to conduct soil tests on weed seeds.
23433218|The effect of seed maturity at harvest and slow and fast drying methods on okra [Abelmoschus esculentus (L). Moench.] germination and seed vigor were studied. Fruits were harvested 25, 30, 35, 40 and 45 days after anthesis (DAA) in 2002 and 2003 and seeds were either threshed immediately after harvest and dried at 20 C for 72 hours (fast drying method) or allowed to remain in the fruits for 10 days at 20  2 C, then threshed and dried (slow drying method). Seed quality at each stage was assessed by speed of radicle protrusion, standard germination, 5-day germination count, accelerated aging test and seedling emergence percentages along with changes in seed color, moisture and weight. Initial seed moisture content varied between 66.0 and 13.6% and 62.7 and 14.8% in harvests of 2002 and 2003, respectively. Maximum seed dry weight (5760 mg/seed) occurred at 30 DAA regardless of the drying method used. Maximum standard germination, 5-day germination count and seedling emergence percentages occurred at 30 DAA and coincided with maximum seed dry weight when seeds were slow dried within the fruit, but occurred 1015 days later (4045 DAA) if they were threshed and dried immediately after harvest. Results showed that threshing okra seeds following slow drying in the fruits increased seed weight in early harvest and improved seed quality at maturity.
23433224|Standard germination is typically the only laboratory bioassay performed on rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed. Currently, no suggested or recommended procedures for conducting rice seed vigor tests are available in the handbooks on vigor testing from the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) or the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA). In April, 2003, a study was conducted on ten lots to examine possible vigor tests for rice seed. The tests that were performed are 1) standard germination, 2) sand germination, 3) cold germination, 4) cool germination, 5) accelerated aging, 6) saturated cold and 7) bulk electrical conductivity. The standard and sand germination methods provided the highest germination percentages, followed by the cold, accelerated aging, saturated cold and cool test methods. The results obtained for both the cool and electrical conductivity tests indicated that the test parameters need adjustment to separate lots with differing vigor levels. The cold and accelerated aging test methods discriminated between samples with lower seed vigor and those with high standard germination percentages. Additional studies should include more seed lots and laboratory results should be compared to actual field emergence to further evaluate the cold and accelerated aging methods for assay of rice seed vigor.
23433221|Mericarps of 'Moss Curled' parsley (Petroselinum crispum Mill. Nym. ex A.W. Hill) were hydroprimed (1 or 3 days in water at 20 C) or osmotically primed in polyethylene glycol (-1.0 MPa for 7 or 21 days at 20 C). Extracted whole embryos then were subjected to a modified chromosome squash technique which sequentially involved fixing, staining, tissue squashing, and chromosomal viewing. The technique quantified relative embryonic mitotic activity. The number of cells per embryo with late anaphase activity was greatest for 3 day hydroprimed mericarps (15), then 7 or 21 day osmotic primed mericarps (3), with 1 day hydroprimed mericarps showing no mitotic activity.
23433230|The feasibility of using simple sequence repeat (SSR) DNA markers as an alternative to isozymes for testing hybrid purity in corn was assessed. SSR markers have the advantage of being abundant and distributed throughout the maize genome; whereas isozymes in corn have limited value for separating offtypes due to their relatively low numbers, poor polymorphism, plus the method has low throughput. Most SSR markers are co-dominant, single copy and polymorphic among corn inbred lines. PCR multiplexing of SSR markers makes it possible to simultaneously use more SSR markers to assess corn hybrid purity. This approach maximizes efficiency by increasing throughput and decreasing costs. SSR markers are amplified from genomic DNA extracted directly from single dry seeds compared with isozymes for electrophoresis that are extracted from 10-day-old seedlings.
23433228|The accelerated aging (AA) test exposes seeds for short periods to two environmental variables, high temperature and high relative humidity, which cause rapid seed deterioration. High vigor seed lots will withstand these stressful conditions, deteriorate at a slower rate and have high germination following aging, compared to low vigor seed lots. This paper reviews the major factors influencing the AA test results and provides a stepwise procedure for conducting the test. The essential equipment needed for the AA test is outlined and the primary questions relating to standardization of this test are answered. The results of the AA test have been shown to provide an accurate estimate of seed vigor in soybean, corn and many other crop species. Several studies have reported that AA results more accurately predict field emergence under stressful soil conditions than do standard germination results. The AA test for soybean is recommended by the Seed Vigor Testing committees of both the Association of Official Seed Analysts and International Seed Testing Association (ISTA). The AA test has met the ISTA requirements for repeatability and standardization and was approved in 2001 for the International Rules for Seed Testing as an accepted vigor test for soybean seed.
23433219|Extraction and amplification of plant DNA is an integral part of using molecular technology for crop improvement such as in molecular marker-assisted selection (MAS). In soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.], leaves are generally the tissue of choice for DNA extraction. A comparison was made between using standard leaf extracted DNA and seed extracted DNA while utilizing a marker-assisted selection protocol to detect resistance to Heterodera glycines Ichinohe, the soybean cyst nematode (SCN) and Phytophthora sojae Kaufm. & Gerd., the cause of Phytophthora root rot. The protocol was unsuccessful using seeds, thus experiments were conducted to determine modifications that would allow seeds as the DNA source. The resulting procedure consisted of extracting DNA from seed radicles and using a disk-based DNA purification system. The DNA was amplified with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using microsatellite primers Satt309 and Sat_168 to detect the rhg 1 SCN resistance gene and Satt 159 and Satt 152 to detect the Rps 1 Phytophthora resistance gene. The resulting product was diluted 1:100 in TE buffer and 1 l aliquot was reamplified and then electrophoresed in an agarose gel. A second protocol was developed by changing PCR conditions of the standard leaf DNA protocol to use undiluted DNA extract. These protocols from DNA extraction to gel completion are easy to conduct and can be completed in about 7 to 9 hours. Both protocols resulted in consistent visualization of microsatellite markers for resistance to both H. glycines and P. sojae and were equal to the results using leaf tissue as the DNA source. Using seeds instead of leaves as the DNA source can simplify MAS protocols.
23433223|Oil palm, Elaeis guineensis Jacq., seed is dormant when harvested and, under natural conditions, germinates sporadically over several years. A method to break dormancy would be beneficial to commercial seed production and the timely supply of planting material. Hence, this investigation evaluated seed germination by using accelerated aging to break dormancy in fresh oil palm seed. Changes in seed moisture content during ambient storage and accelerated aging (AA) were documented. Accelerated aging was performed according to the Seed Vigor Testing Handbook of the Association of Official Seed Analysts. One sub-sample was AA treated without initial water soaking and another was presoaked for five days prior to the AA test. An un-aged control sample was maintained under ambient storage conditions at 35 C in closed polyethylene bags. Seed were tested for germination and moisture content following AA treatment at ten day intervals over 120 days. Moisture content of the control was found to decrease over the 120 day storage period; whereas, aged seeds maintained uniformly high moisture content. Aged oil palm seeds exhibited significantly improved germination capacity compared to un-aged seeds. It was noteworthy that presoaked AA treated seeds recorded 40, 72 and 80% germination after 50, 60 and 70 days; whereas, un-aged seeds had no germination during the same period. Furthermore, the five day presoak followed by aging treatment significantly improved germination.
23433211|An image processing computer application to automatically assess the vigor of three-day-old soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] and corn (Zea mays L.) seedlings was developed. The software operates on acquired digital images of soybean and corn seed lots placed on a paper towel. Seedlings were digitally extracted away from the paper towel and converted into various digital representations. These representations were used to analyze the seedlings and segment them into normal and abnormal categories. The normal seedlings were further processed so that a one-pixel-wide summary structure of the shape of the seedling was produced. From the soybean summary structure, the software classified the seedlings into six type categories based on their shape. Each normal seedling was processed to remove the cotyledon portion of the summary structure based on the type category it fell into. The remaining summary structure, with the cotyledon removed, was then used to compute the length of each seedling in pixels. From the corn summary structure, the software first identified seeds based on their yellowish-red color, connected nearby multiple roots to the seed, and separated overlapping roots to the correct seed. Once the seedling structures were correctly identified for soybean and corn, seedling length measurements were determined. From these length measurements, speed of growth and uniformity of growth values were computed. These two values were normalized and combined into a zero to 1,000 vigor index for the soybean or corn seed lot. Combined with the post-processing corrective features, this computer software was able to achieve highly accurate and standardized measurements of each soybean and corn seedling, providing an alternative to the current method of manually measuring seedlings for speed and uniformity of growth when performing a vigor test.
23433225|Production of seed peanuts requires careful management of several factors that may affect quality, for example, adequate water and calcium availability during pod-fill, maturity at harvest, curing and storage at the recommended temperature and seed moisture levels, and shelling and conditioning with minimal mechanical damage. Seed vigor tests may be used to assess storability and suitability for planting. Tests may be categorized as quick tests, which can be performed within 24 hours, and standard germination and stress-type germination tests, which require 7 to 12 days. Calcium assay is included as a quick method to assess quality since it is a critical nutrient for seed peanuts. The tetrazolium and electrical conductivity tests both evaluate aspects of tissue integrity. The standard germination test is indicative of seed vigor with > 85% germination considered strong vigor. The accelerated aging and cold germination tests are two stress-type methods that are good indicators of seed strength. The accelerated aging procedure has been well documented for use on a number of crops and it provides good reliability when procedures are closely adhered to; however, it does not apply well to high volume laboratory testing. The cold germination test is well suited to high volume testing when performed parallel with the standard germination test. Since these various testing methods evaluate different parameters of seed vigor, it is recommended that a combination of calcium assay, standard germination test and stress-type vigor test provides the best management information for seed peanuts.
23433220|Greenhouse and laboratory studies were conducted in 2002 to detect the presence of Phomopsis sp. in weed species that may be associated with reducing soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality. Phomopsis longicolla T. W. Hobbs, the fungal pathogen responsible for soybean seed decay, was recovered from previously unreported asymptomatic weed species. P. longicolla was recovered from eclipta, prickly sida, Illinois bundleflower, Texasweed, prostrate knotweed, pitted morningglory, nodding spurge, and slender aster found in nearby soybean field. The isolates from weed species were used to inoculate greenhouse-grown weeds and soybean. The P. longicolla recovered from eclipta and nodding spurge were the most aggressive and were as pathogenic as the soybean isolate. Sicklepod and palmleaf morningglory were included in the test and were severely infected by the isolates from eclipta, nodding spurge, and soybean. These results indicate the potential existence of pathogen variability within P. longicolla and these weed species may serve as symptomless carriers and source of inoculum which may result in reduced soybean seed quality.
23433216|Elevated antioxidant content of tomato fruits is desirable for human health and nutrition. In seeds, antioxidant capacity may also be a desirable trait for increased seed storability and slower deterioration rates. This study was conducted to test whether tomato fruits from a genotype with elevated levels of natural antioxidants produce seeds with a functionally greater total antioxidant capacity. The tomato genotype 'T4099', which produces elevated levels of lycopene and ascorbic acid, and the recurrent parent 'Flora-Dade' were grown in the field and greenhouse under standard agronomic practices. Fruits and seeds were evaluated for antioxidant capacity and lycopene content. Total antioxidant capacity of the water- and lipid-soluble fractions of seeds were evaluated using the Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and photo-induced chemiluminescence (PCL) methods. The high pigment line 'T4099' resulted in a higher fruit tissue lycopene content and total antioxidant capacity than 'Flora-Dade'. However, both TEAC and PCL methods indicated that seeds of 'T4099' had lower antioxidant capacity and that the difference was greater for water-soluble antioxidants. Based on these results, it is hypothesized that tomato fruits and seeds may compete for antioxidants. Fruits with enhanced lycopene content are desirable for human consumption, yet this may produce seeds with lower antioxidant levels and influence seed dormancy or longevity in storage.
23433212|Seed (F1) of SCRC15 cotton, a commercial hybrid cultivar, was obtained by crossing a conventional line with a Bt transgenic line at five successive periods in 2001. Seeds were separated into four maturity grades using a floatsink procedure and coat colors. Physical properties and seed vigor were tested in each grade. The results revealed that seed density, kernel index and kernel/seed were significantly correlated to maturity grades, and thus could be used as important indicators of seed maturity. As seed became more mature, higher emergence and fewer diseased seedlings occurred at standard germination (30 C) and cool germination (18 C) temperatures. Water uptake speed and conductivity of electrolyte leakage were inversely correlated to seed maturity. Hybrid seed maturity varied with crossing periods. The percentage of immature hybrid seeds from the last crossing period was the highest, suggesting that ending hand crossing earlier than August 23 promotes higher seed quality.
23433222|Genetic identity is important in seed production of such sexually propagated, cross-fertilized, heterozygous crops as coconut palm (Cocos nucifera L.), which are exclusively propagated by seeds. Due to their uniform nature, twins are used in genetic studies, breeding and to determine identity. The objective was to identify uniform phenotypic traits within twins for use in determining genetic identity. Phenotypic correlation was determined among twin pairs for 11 important foliar traits in coconut. Of the traits under study, leaf sheath fiber thickness, petiole length and number of leaflets had high correlation and are either highly heritable or have adaptive significance. These traits have practical applications in seed production and breeding.
23433214|Schinopsis balansae Engl., constitutes the dominant species in the forests that occupy the Northern Santa Fe Province, Argentina. This research assesses the quality of S. balansae seeds harvested in 2000 and 2001. The seeds were evaluated 3, 12, and 18 months after harvest for viability by the tetrazolium and standard germination tests and for vigor by the germination velocity index (GVI). Incidence of pathogens was determined in both fruits (samara) and seeds. After three months of storage at 3 C, 77% of the seeds harvested in 2000 germinated, but only 29% germinated after 18 months. Of the seeds harvested in 2001, only 28% germinated after a 3-month cold storage period, and completely lost their viability after 18 months. Seeds tested 3 months after harvest in 2000 showed the greatest vigor index (GVI). Low quality production in 2001 appeared to be from adverse environmental conditions with poor seed quality and 55% of fruit lacking seeds. The viability and the vigor tests were good indicators of S. balansae seed quality.
23433226|The cool germination test is the most widely used measure of seed vigor in the USA to evaluate cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) planting-seed quality. The purposes of this test are to rank seed lots and to determine if seed lots are suitable for planting in cool soils or less than ideal situations. The cool germination test is conducted on 200 seeds (four replicates  50 seeds each) in rolled towels at an 18 C constant temperature. Rolled towels are placed upright and incubated for seven days. On the seventh day, a single final count is made. Normal seedlings are defined as those having a combined radicle + hypocotyl length of four cm or longer. It is critical that the average temperature is maintained at 18 C with no more than  0.3 C fluctuation for the duration of this test. Seed lots with greater than 60% cool test values are considered good to excellent. A vigor index based on a combination of cool and standard germination test results is a good predictor of field emergence. Freshly harvested cottonseeds can be physiologically dormant or hard-seeded, resulting in low cool test scores from slow seedling growth or restricted imbibition. As a result, caution must be used when interpreting low-test scores in newly harvested seeds. The cool germination test is a reliable predictor for the quality of both weather deteriorated new crop seed and carryover seed.
23433215|Tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) varieties rich in lycopene are desirable for human nutrition because it reduces risk of various cancers. Tomato genes that cause elevated lycopene content such as dark green (dg) are available. However, several genes that result in elevated lycopene also result in negative pleiotropic effects including slow germination and reduced plant height. It is uncertain whether low gibberellin levels, high abscisic acid (ABA) content or high light sensitivity account for the reduced speed of germination of dg tomato genotypes. This study evaluated gibberellin (GA3) and norflurazon (inhibitor of carotenoid and ABA synthesis) effects on the speed of germination of the high pigment tomato line 'T4099' and its recurrent parent 'Flora-Dade'. These tomato genotypes were greenhouse-produced in summer 2001 for fruit and seed production. Seeds from mature red fruits were sown in solutions of GA3 (10-4M), norflurazon 20 mg L-1 and norflurazon plus GA3. Speed of germination was evaluated as time to reach 50% germination (T50) and germination index. Norflurazon alone and GA3 plus norflurazon resulted in higher speed of germination of 'T4099' compared to the control but not at the same level as 'Flora-Dade'. These data suggest that the high lycopene tomato genotype 'T4099' produced greater levels of ABA during imbibition.
23433229|Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Monench] seed is often tested for vigor in addition to the standard germination test. Often the same tests that are used for hybrid maize are used for sorghum. The range in correlation between these tests and field performance is varied and depends upon the stress level present in the field. The causes of the vigor differences in sorghum are similar to those of other crops; however, evaluating vigor in sorghum can be confounded by the presence of a transient dormancy. Further, sorghum has, in general, received less total research than maize. Some data suggests that traditional laboratory seedling vigor tests used for other crops may not apply as well to sorghum. Genetic influence on seedling vigor appears to be a potential area for breeders to screen cultivars as well as for laboratory applications to predict seedling vigor. Factors such as seed size, membrane integrity and response to seed maturation temperature impact the resultant sorghum seed vigor. Since mitochondria are sensitive to stresses in the production environment and receive maternally inherited qualities, this may be an area that could be developed for laboratory evaluation of sorghum seed vigor. High vigor seed possess an abundant supply of intact and protected mitochondria which upon imbibition are able to immediately begin oxidative phosphorylation and generate the energy needed to support growth and development.
23433227|Effective management of cottonseed requires assessment of a number of quality factors to determine storability and suitability for planting. The seedling growth test, free fatty acid test and cutting test, which assay physiological, biochemical and physical parameters of cottonseed quality, respectively, are probably the three most routinely used procedures other than the cotton cool test. The seedling growth test evaluates seedling vigor during the early days of the germination test, hence it can be performed very cost effectively. The free fatty acid test assays cottonseed oil quality and is commonly used on bulk cottonseed. The cutting test evaluates seed maturity in bulk cottonseed as a measure of quality by examining the condition and color of the seed embryo. These procedures are used to determine seed quality following harvest, but they may also be used over time to monitor seed during storage and conditioning, plus prior to marketing and planting.
23433338|Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.), a native prairie grass, is being increasingly used as a biomass energy crop. To determine optimal conditions for germination, the effect of temperature and pH were studied using several switchgrass cultivars. Seeds of eight cultivars were germinated at five temperatures and nine pH levels. The optimal conditions for germination were found to be 25 C with a substrate of pH 6.0. The data indicated that germination occurs relatively well in substrates with pH values ranging from 68 if the temperature is within 2535 C. The interaction between pH and temperature provides strong management implications. For optimum stand establishment in the field, switchgrass should be planted in warm soils with a pH range of 58. These results indicate that switchgrass establishment in soils with pH values outside this range may not be successful.
23433342|Fast and reliable results from seed quality tests are essential for producers. The Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) was developed to improve assessment of seed quality. This study had the objective of identifying the optimum paper towel moisture contents and temperatures for maize and soybean seed germination during a three-day test period. Seeds were planted on paper towels with seven different moisture contents for maize and eight for soybean. Three different temperatures (24, 25 and 26 C) were used for germination of the two crops. Decreased speed of growth and overall vigor indices were observed when the moisture content of the paper towels had less than 96% saturation in maize and 79% saturation in soybean. When the germinator temperature varied 1 C less than 25 C, no difference was detected in the SVIS indices. However, a difference of 1 C more than 25 C caused a significant increase in seedling growth. These results demonstrate the importance of monitoring paper towel moisture contents used for the SVIS test, particularly for maize seeds, and show that moisture and temperature variables must be carefully controlled during standard germination and vigor tests to assure standardization of reported results.
23433340|This study was undertaken to determine whether soaking marigold (Tagetes patula L.) or verbena (Verbena  hybrida Voss.) seeds in various concentrations of paclobutrazol solution reduces the level of seed metabolism and seed viability. Tetrazolium tests demonstrated that verbena seeds soaked in solutions of 50500 mgL-1 paclobutrazol were viable. Verbena or marigold seeds soaked in solutions of 10500 mgL-1 paclobutrazol had lower respiration and heat production rates than controls. These lower respiration rates were not found in washed verbena or marigold seeds suggesting that paclobutrazol had been leached from the seeds. Lowering seedling emergence in verbena with increasing paclobutrazol concentrations and corresponding inhibition of CO2 emission rates indicated that paclobutrazol imposed dormancy in verbena seeds.
23433339|This study developed an extraction protocol for pollen DNA in corn, and screened current and new primers designed to detect the CaMV35S promoter in corn pollen and seed. Bt transgenic and non-transgenic corn hybrids were used to obtain the seed and pollen DNA. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and gel electrophoresis were used to evaluate the efficacy of the pollen DNA extraction protocol, and to test the efficiency of 11 primer pairs in detecting the CaMV35S promoter sequence. The DNA extraction method described here was very successful in releasing the DNA from pollen grains, as determined by the intensity of the 18 bands of genomic DNA samples amplified with the HMG-AF1/HMG-AR1 corn-specific primers. The strong intensity of the bands formed by primers P35S1/P35S2, P35SA/P35SB and P35S-aflu/P35S-ar1 showed these primers were the most efficient in amplifying transgenic pollen DNA; whereas, primers P35S1/P35S2 generated the strongest band intensity in seed DNA. The new primers 35S168F/35S317R showed higher sensitivity in detecting the CaMV35S promoter than any other primer included in this experiment. The proposed pollen DNA extraction method and the primer 35S168F/35S317R were very effective in extracting DNA from pollen samples and identifying the CaMV535S promoter sequence in transgenic varieties.
23433336|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] plants were grown in controlled environments to evaluate the effect of high temperature (38, 33 C) stress on standard germination (SG) and vigor [accelerated-aging germination (AA) and electrical conductivity]. Initially, the effect of changing the standard temperature cycle in the phytotron from 10 and 14 hours at the maximum and minimum temperatures to a cycle that mimicked the sinusodial field temperature cycle (maximum temperature did not change) was evaluated. The maximum temperature of 38 C reduced SG and vigor for soybean cultivars 'Hutcheson' and 'McCall', while only vigor was reduced at 33 C, just as in the standard cycle. Secondly, the effect of short exposures to high temperature at various intervals during seed development was evaluated. Plants were moved to the growth chamber at weekly intervals during seed filling and returned to the greenhouse after a 7- or 14-day exposure to 38/27 C. Exposure for 7-day periods during seed development did not affect SG and caused only small reductions in AA. Fourteen-day exposure periods caused larger reductions in SG (maximum reduction of 32 percentage points) and AA (maximum of 62 percentage points) when high temperatures occurred later in seed development, but had no effect early in development. The quality of seeds that matured (pods turned yellow or brown) during the high temperature treatment was the same as seeds that matured after treatment (pods were green at the end of treatment). High temperature represents another stress in addition to disease infection and mechanical damage, which can reduce soybean seed quality during seed production.
23433337|An image processing computer application was developed to collect statistics of physical characteristics from seeds. A machine learning technique ensured that the software was applicable to a wide variety of species so that it could be used in purity analysis tests. The method presented requires an inexpensive scanner and a modern personal computer. The software operates by locating seeds within the digitized image of the purity sample and takes measurements on each seed (width, height, area, perimeter, average color, etc.). These measurements are inputted into a classification routine trained to recognize all potential seeds within the sample. The classification routine determines the closest matching species for each seed in the image and reports the results to the user. Because of the wide variation in seeds encountered in purity tests, the automated system of measurement and classification is highly configurable. The seed identification system is designed to be rapidly adapted to specific seed types and trained without knowledge of artificial intelligence techniques.
23433345|We previously mapped four unlinked restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers associated with soybean cyst nematode (SCN) resistance. The partial coefficient of determinations (R2) of the major quantitative trait locus (QTL) A006 is 91%. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) linked to the major QTL of soybean cyst nematode resistance was detected by comparing sequences amplified from "Hartwig," a broad-based SCN resistant line, and "Williams 82," an SCN susceptible line. The SNP was validated using SCN bioassay data at Purdue University. This SNP is located within the site of Fau I, which makes it possible to distinguish resistant allele T from susceptible allele C by PCR followed by Fau I digestion. The discovery of this SNP and its easy detection are of significant importance to plant breeders and to quality assurance managers.
23433343|The pure seed unit as applied in seed purity analysis is poorly defined and difficult to determine for many native species belonging to the Asteraceae. This paper reviews the history of the pure seed unit for Asteraceae as defined in the Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds from 1955 to the present. In the 1950s, only eight Asteraceae species were listed in the AOSA Rules and these were widely cultivated and highly milled due to their thick, opaque fruit walls. However, there are now at least 90 species of Asteraceae listed in the AOSA Rules and these taxa are not highly cultivated or milled. Furthermore, the pure seed unit definitions have fundamental differences between the AOSA, ISTA and the Canadian purity methods. Recently, Artemisia tridentata has been studied to determine an accurate pure seed unit definition. It is important to promote such work to foster standardization of the pure seed unit as it applies to the large number of species in the Asteraceae.
23433341|Seed storage proteins of thirteen species of the genus Prosopis L. were investigated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The resulting chromatograms demonstrated that the species studied could be separated into three classical taxonomic sections previously established by plant morphology. Individual species showed enough variation to be accurately identified based on their respective chromatograms, except for P. glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa, P. glandulosa var. torreyana (L. D. Benson) M. C. Johnst., and P. velutina Wooton. Peak retention time ratios to a reference peak were used to identify individual peaks. The presence or absence of these peaks allowed for identification of individual species. A synoptic key was devised to help interpret the chromatograms. Protein analysis by RP-HPLC appears to be a quick and easy method for species identification within Prosopis and should be a useful tool to plant biologists and seed analysts as an aid to species identification.
23433346|Experiments were conducted in 19982000 to develop vigor tests for evaluating the performance of Argentine canola, Brassica napus L., under different growing conditions. Seed lots were evaluated annually in 57 seed laboratories using the standard germination test (SGT) and pre-chill test (PCT). Germination was assessed after 7 d in the SGT and after 11 or 12 d in the PCT. The vigor index of seed lots was calculated by multiplying the 1000-seed weight by percent germination/100. Seed lots were evaluated annually at 36 locations. Seeds were planted into warm dry soil in 1998, cool moist soil in 1999 and cool dry soil in 2000. Statistical correlations and linear regression were used to identify seed attributes that provided the best indication of seedling establishment, shoot weight and biomass. In all field trials, germination in the SGT and PCT was strongly correlated with seedling establishment and poorly correlated with shoot weight. Establishment improved as germination increased. Germination in the SGT and PCT provided an equally good indication of establishment in warm soil and cool soil. Thousand-seed weights were poorly correlated with establishment and strongly correlated with shoot weights. With a 1.0 g increase in seed weight, shoot weights increased by 105 mg in warm soil and by 1850 mg in cool soil. Vigor indices of seed lots in the SGT and PCT were highly correlated with biomass in all field trials. With a 1.0 unit increase in the vigor index, biomass increased by 1.41.6 g/m-row in warm soil and by 0.41.1 g/m-row in cool soil. Vigor indices in the PCT provided the best indication of biomass in warm and cool soils.
23433249|Recently some soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] growers in the southern USA have shifted to early maturing cultivars to avoid drought, which often occurs during late summer. Seed quality of cultivars that mature early (August and early September) is often poor. The impermeable seed coat (ISC) trait has provided protection for seed exposed to late season weathering; however, it is not known if it will improve seed quality of early maturing soybean. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of ISC on germination of seed harvested from early maturing lines. ISC and permeable seed coat (PSC) lines derived from the crosses D86-4565 X C1747 and D86-4565 X C1813 were studied. These lines ranged in maturity from late August to early October, when grown at Stoneville, MS in 1993 and 1994. Standard germination tests were used to assess effect. ISC lines were significantly higher in germination in one cross (D86-4565 X C1747) in 1993, but did not differ from PSC lines in either cross in 1994. There was a strong positive correlation (r = 0.630.75) between mean germination and maturity date in 1993 among lines within each seed coat class for both crosses. Maturity in 1994 was not correlated with germination except among PSC lines from the D86-4565 X C1747 population (r = -0.38). Results indicated that ISC was not consistently effective in protecting seed quality in early maturing lines. Several early maturing lines with PSC showed acceptable germination in both years indicating potential for improvement of this trait.
23433254|A laboratory test for determining the presence of the Roundup Ready gene in soybean seeds was developed by the ISU Seed Testing Laboratory and approved by Monsanto. The procedure recommended to evaluate the percent expression of the Roundup Ready gene includes a seed lot of unknown tolerance and two controls, a susceptible soybean seed lot and a known Roundup Ready soybean seed lot. All seed lots are imbibed in a 2% solution of the ROUNDUP ULTRA formulation (41% active ingredient), for a concentration of 0.82% active ingredient, glyphosate, in the solution. Two replications of 100 seeds of each lot are placed overnight in paper towels treated with the ROUNDUP solutions. Imbibed seeds are then germinated following the prescribed procedure for soybeans (AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds) and evaluated after 7 days. A standard germination test is also planted to use as a comparison of the abnormal seedlings. Susceptible seeds present severe toxicity symptoms. Radicles of the affected seedlings are yellow to brown and stunted, with little or no secondary root growth. Seedlings of Roundup Ready soybeans develop normally.
23433248|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] seed deterioration occurs because of several physiological factors. One model suggests that a primary event causing loss of seed quality is DNA degradation. To test this model, changes in DNA integrity occurring during seed aging were evaluated using RAPD (Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA) analyses. Five soybean cultivars (Pennyrile, Corsica, Stafford, Essex and Pharaoh) represented by two seed lots each were evaluated after storage under ambient warehouse (0% germination) and cold room at 10 C and 50% R.H. (68 to 94% germination) conditions for four to five years. The extraction, quantification, amplification of DNA templates, and electrophoresis were conducted using four primers. Evaluations were performed on samples of whole dry seeds and their constituent parts (embryo axes and cotyledons) of each seed lot. The results demonstrated no influence of seed deterioration on RAPD fragment expression under both storage conditions. Similar results were found for different seed tissues that displayed the same banding patterns as the whole seeds for each cultivar. This indicates that the standardization of RAPD protocols for varietal identification testing of soybean seeds is feasible even when extreme differences in seed viability and vigor exist.
23433250|Although soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality deteriorates rapidly, there has been interest in storing seed beyond the first planting season. The effect of reducing summer warehouse storage temperatures on seed germination, vigor and field emergence during two carryover years of storage was evaluated. Seed lots with acceptable standard germination (> 80%), but variable levels of vigor, mechanical injury and seed infection by Phomopsis longicolla Hobbs were placed in uncontrolled warehouse storage at two locations (Kentucky and Indiana). Seed was sampled at three-month intervals for over two years and tested for germination and vigor (accelerated aging AA). Seventeen seed lots were moved from the warehouses to constant temperatures [13 (IN) or 16 (KY) C] as summer temperatures increased above these levels and returned to the warehouse when temperatures declined below the same level. Seed lots infected with P. longicolla increased in seed germination and vigor as fungal viability declined during the first six months of storage in all storage environments. All seed lots stored continuously in the warehouse maintained > 80% germination through 450 days of storage (one year carryover), but few had acceptable (> 80% AA) seed vigor. Reducing summer temperatures increased the seed vigor (2 to 54 percentage points) and field emergence (0 to 33 percentage points) of many seed lots. Most seed lots with > 80% AA germination initially (April, first year of storage) maintained adequate seed vigor (> 80% AA) and field emergence after one year of carryover storage. High initial levels of mechanical injury or seed infection by P. longicolla had little effect on rate of deterioration and storability compared to sound seed lots in all storage environments. Reducing summer temperatures may provide a practical, economic option for carryover soybean seed in warehouse storage.
23433252|Field emergence and several seed vigor tests were used to evaluate the quality of different canola seed lots. Four seed lots representing two winter and two spring cultivars were aged at 42 C at various time intervals to provide six sub-lots with a range of seed vigor. The six sub-lots were evaluated for seed quality using the following tests: cold, cold soil, conductivity, first count germination, standard germination and field emergence. Aging seeds for 48 h at 42 C followed by germination for 7 d at 22 C was the best method for the accelerated aging test. Soaking 200 uninjured, untreated seeds for 16 h at 22 C in 50 ml of distilled water was suitable for the conductivity test. The cold soil test was most successful in separating seed lots of different quality when seeds were planted on moist blotter paper, covered with soil and pre-treated for 5 d at 5 C before germinating at 22 C for 5 d. Incubation for 5 d at 5 C without soil provided the best pre-germination treatment for the cold test. Temperatures of 22, 25 or 20/30 C (alternating) in the standard germination test did not significantly differ in influencing germination results. Significant correlations were found between the results of all vigor tests and field emergence for all seed lots.
23433247|The purpose of this work was to test the accuracy of the oven method, capacitance meter and water activity measurements to assess the water status of intact pelleted and film-coated seeds in comparison with noncoated seeds. Seeds from one lettuce (Lactuca sativa) lot and one onion (Allium cepa) lot were pelleted by six commercial sources. A second lot of onion and one lot of cucumber (Cucumis sativus) were film coated by one company resulting in three different coating formulations. A noncoated control was used as a comparison for each lot. Neither the oven method nor the capacitance meter were able to accurately determine the actual seed moisture content from intact pelleted seeds. The oven method underestimated the actual seed moisture content from film-coated seeds, while the capacitance readings provided similar or slightly lower values for film coated than for noncoated seeds. Overall, water activity measurements provided accurate determinations of water status from six pellet sources and three film coating formulations for two crops. The seed moisture content could be calculated from the water activity values with equations from the moisture isotherm for each crop. In conclusion, water activity measurements were a versatile method of assessing water status of coated and noncoated seeds on a routine basis.
23433246|Chile seed is known to have poor germination in the field at temperatures near 15C. Use of seed pre-treatments enhances germination, however, it is not known whether a combination of a priming solution plus gibberellin will have a synergistic effect on seed germination of chile. Therefore seeds of 'Tam Veracruz' and 'Early Jalapeo' chile were primed for five days at 23C in solutions of 1) 0.3 M NaCl; 2) 4 g Pro-Gibb T/g seed; 3) 0.3 M NaCl + 4 g Pro-Gibb T/g seed; or 4) 18 mOhm H2O. Germination tests were run in petri dishes and flats of potting media in 23C and 15C incubators. Final germination percentage (FGP) and the germination rate (MDG) were calculated. Over 70% of the seeds primed in H2O or Pro-Gibb T alone germinated during the priming process while seeds treated with NaCl or NaCl + Pro-Gibb T did not germinate. Under these conditions, Pro-Gibb T cannot be used alone as a seed pre-treatment. Both the NaCl treatment and the NaCl + Pro-Gibb T improved the germination rate compared to the control. The combination of priming plus gibberellin had a faster germination rate than when priming was used alone, especially at 15C. Seed priming plus Pro-Gibb T can improve the emergence rate and overall performance of chile seed at less than optimal temperatures.
23433253|Comparisons among the AOSA and ISTA purity testing methods for annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lamarck), perennial ryegrass (L. perenne Lamarck) and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreber), and a new method in which only the large sterile structures are removed were made by the AOSA Purity Subcommittee. Pure seed percentage, time consumption, numbers and types of seed unit attachments and amount of inert material recovered from the attachments were examined. All three methods achieved similar results for the nine seed lots tested. The new method produced nearly identical results to the AOSA method for all three species tested with a considerable time savings.
23433251|Seed dormancy exists in many of the 250 species of Penstemon, including Penstemon penlandii (an endangered species). These studies were conducted to develop a better understanding of dormancy in this species and provide protocols to determine the germination requirements of P. penlandii. P. penlandii seeds were collected at two locations near Kremmling, CO on 3 and 20 Aug. 1993 to obtain seeds of different maturity. Many dormancy breaking procedures were compared including prechilling, hydrogen peroxide, liquid nitrogen, hand clipping, mechanical scarification, acid scarification, gibberellic acid treatments, ultraviolet light exposure, light and dark exposures, and immersion in boiling water. The germination and speed of germination results in individual germinators suggested that 1530C gave the highest percentage germination for P. penlandii after mechanical scarification, however there were no significant differences between 1525C and various other germination temperatures. Scarification rates of 30psi for 10 to 20 sec produced highest rates of germination and emergence in laboratory and greenhouse tests. Laboratory germinations at 1530C of mechanically scarified seeds were highly correlated with seedling emergence in the greenhouse. Submerging seeds in aerated 1mM GA3 for 24h, placing seed on water moistened blotters at 1530C, and hand scarifying ungerminated seeds after 14d followed by an additional week for germination provided results which were similar to hand scarification, mechanical scarification, and tetrazolium viability. This germination procedure has been adopted by the Association of Official Seed Analysts for inclusion in the "Rules for Testing Seed".
23433255|The saturated salt accelerated aging (SSAA) test is a modification of the accelerated aging test protocol where salts are substituted for water to control the relative humidity of the aging environment. This process reduces the rate of water absorption into small-seeded crops thereby reducing their speed of deterioration. The purpose of this study was to examine the reproducibility of SSAA results for four pansy (Viola tricolor L.) (raw and primed) and two impatiens (Impatiens walleriana Hooker f.) seed lots using a referee format. Eight laboratories participated in the referee and all seed lots were aged with saturated NaCl at 41C for 72 h for pansy and 48 h for impatiens. Seeds were tested for germination before and following SSAA at 7 and 14 days. Similar standard germination results were obtained for the eight laboratories after 14 days. Seven of the eight laboratories produced similar SSAA results after 14 days for pansy and correctly identified the ranking of seed lot performance for impatiens. Primed pansy seeds were more prone to deterioration in the SSAA test. These findings indicate that standardization of the SSAA test is possible.
23433595|The germination capability of freshly (before drying) harvested seeds of common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) was improved by air-drying when seeds were harvested at or after seed physiological maturity. Low osmotic potential may substitute for air-drying to improve seed germination. Field and laboratory experiments were conducted to study the effect of low osmotic potential or cold treatments prior to ambient-drying on seed dormancy and germination of common vetch seeds harvested at different maturity stages. Pods were harvested at four stages of maturity: 1) full-size (FS) seeds, 2) greenish-yellow (GY) pod, 3) yellow (Y) pod, and 4) brown (B) pod. At each maturity stage, freshly harvested seeds were exposed to three drying treatments for 4 d prior to air-drying at ambient conditions: 1) low osmotic potential (-1.2 MPa; osmotic), 2) air-drying at 5 C (cold), 3) air-drying at ambient conditions (24  2 C; ambient). Seed standard germination was measured on freshly harvested seeds and 4 d after imposing the drying treatments. Osmotic treatment improved seed germination at 4 d compared with the cold and ambient treatments for seeds harvested at the GY, Y, and B stages. Osmotic treatment improved seed germination of air-dried seeds at the Y stage. The germination of the air-dried seeds was higher than those seeds dried for 4 d at ambient or cold temperature, suggesting that air-drying was a prerequisite for improving seed germination. However, the osmotic treatment improved seed germination without the need for air-drying when seeds were harvested at maturity (brown pods), due to the reduction in dormant seeds.
23433594|Seed germination and seedling growth of A. indica were affected by seed size and seeding depth. Large seeds germinated earlier with 95% total germination compared to small seeds with only 57% germination. Also, longer shoot-root lengths were observed in plants from large seeds. In seed orientation uniform germination and seedling growth were recorded. No significant impacts was recorded in different seed orientation on seed germination as well as seedling growth. Seedling morphology did not differ much among treatments. Similarly, seeds sown in the upper soil layer germinated more rapidly and proved better growth compared to sowing at 3 and 5 cm depths. Mean germination time, germination index, shoot and root growth, root collar diameter and number of leaves followed the similar pattern.
23433590|Experiments were conducted to develop vigor tests for evaluating the establishment of open-pollinated Argentine canola, Brassica napus L., in conventional tillage (CT), minimum tillage (MT) and zero tillage (ZT). Sixteen seed lots of an open-pollinated cultivar were produced from swathing experiments in 2000 and 2001. Seed lots were assessed in 2003 in the standard germination test (SGT), accelerated aging test (AAT), controlled deterioration test (CDT), pre-chill test (PCT) and electrical conductivity test (ECT). Green seed content and 1000-seed weight were also determined. Establishment of the seed lots was evaluated at three sites with CT, two sites with MT and one site with ZT. The six sites also differed in soil texture and rainfall. Establishment averaged 7579% in CT, 4256% in MT and 17% in ZT. Establishment was lowest at sites with reduced tillage, heavy-textured clay and below-average rainfall. Thousand-seed weights, along with germination in the SGT, AAT, CDT and PCT were positively correlated with establishment in CT and MT but not in ZT. Depending on the site, establishment improved by 811% with each 1.0 g increase in 1000-seed weight. Germination in the SGT, AAT and CDT provided a better indication of establishment in CT and MT than germination in the PCT. Establishment improved by 1.42.4% with each 1.0% increase in germination in the SGT. Green seed content and conductivity were negatively correlated with establishment at all sites. Establishment declined 23% with each 1% increase in green seed and 10 S cm-1 g-1 increase in conductivity after soaking seeds for 24 h. Conductivity after 4 or 24 h soaking provided the best indication of stand establishment at most field sites. The effects of swathing time on the quality, germination and vigor of canola seed lots are also discussed.
23433592|Seed proteins for five species (Phaseolus vulgaris, P. acutifolius P. grayanus, P. lunatus and P. maculatus) were analyzed electrophoretically to assess genetic diversity between and within these species. A total of 31 subunits were resolved by SDS-PAGE. Each of the analyzed samples had a unique profile, although a few subunits were highly conserved. Analytical results of SDS-PAGE of seed protein demonstrated the plausibility of the SDS-PAGE marker system for organizing genetic diversity in the genus Phaseolus. It revealed the genetic relation between P. lunatus and P. maculatus and confirmed their monophyletic origin. It also showed the broad genetic diversity in P. acutifolius germplasm and suggested a gene flow among the parental entities of its accessions. Jaccard similarity index, cluster analysis and factor analysis revealed that P. grayanus had a high polymorphism with P. lunatus and P. maculatus, and P. acutifolius respectively, suggesting unidirectional introgression among them. The genetic distance between P. vulgaris and other species is discussed.
23433591|The requirements for and results from priming lettuce seed can vary according to age, vigor, and thermosensitivity of the seed. This investigation determined the optimal hydrothermal timing for priming lettuce seeds, independent of cultivar, seed lot, and storage using an inexpensive gel assay for the enzyme endo--mannanase (EBM). Two lettuce cultivars 'Bennett' and 'Connick' and two seed lots of each were used. Seeds were primed in an aerated -1.2 MPa polyethylene glycol 8000 (PEG) solution at 15 C in constant light, and were sampled at 24 h, 48 h, or 72 h. Enzyme activity for each lot at each priming duration was determined by a single-seed gel assay for EBM. At 36 C, germination of primed seeds was over 90%, while non-primed seeds germinated at 40%. EBM activity was non-detectable in dry seeds and in less than 5% of the seeds primed for 24 h. After priming for 48 h or 72 h, 30% or more of the micropylar section of the whole seed exhibited EBM activity, regardless of seed lot or cultivar. Since the percentage of seeds exhibiting EBM in the whole endosperm after 48 h or 72 h of priming were similar but total percent and rate of germination at 36 C were optimal after 48 h of priming, 48 h was considered the optimal hydrothermal priming time. EBM activity was observed in 25% of seeds at 48 h priming duration. Therefore, it was proposed if at least 25% of seeds exhibit EBM activity, optimal hydrothermal time is achieved. The EBM test was estimated to cost $11.56 per 1000 seeds. This price does not include facilities or equipment costs. Determining priming time with the EBM test provides a method to improve optimization of the priming procedure for endospermic seeds such as lettuce.
23433589|Seed moisture content constantly changes in relationship to the temperature and relative humidity of the air surrounding the seed. Because seed moisture content is important in determining seed longevity and many other aspects of seed quality, this report emphasizes the properties of water, the types of water bonding in a seed, and how water is attracted to seed compounds. These relationships are examined with respect to various phases found in equilibrium moisture content curves (isotherms) for seeds. Understanding these factors permits greater insights into seed physiology and performance.
23433593|The fungal endophyte Neotyphodium coenophialum is known to enhance tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses in grasses. However, most endophyte-infected fescue contains toxic ergot alkaloids, which can induce a fescue toxicosis syndrome when consumed by ruminants and horses. Recently, new tall fescue cultivars infected with endophyte strains that do not produce toxic ergot alkaloids have been developed. The objectives of this study were to determine whether a commercially available ELISA kit for detecting ergot alkaloid (ergovaline) in plant tillers would detect alkaloids in tall fescue seeds, to determine whether mechanical scarification or crushing of tall fescue seed would facilitate alkaloid detection by ELISA, and to determine whether ergovaline alkaloid detection by ELISA was consistent with the HPLC method. Cultivars included in the comparison were Jesup MaxQ, a proprietary tall fescue cultivar containing endophytes that do not produce ergovaline, and KY-31, a conventional cultivar containing endophytes that produce ergovaline. Seed lots of Jesup MaxQ and KY-31 had similar endophyte infection rates of 90% and 94%, respectively, as measured by the microscopic method. Percentage seeds with ergovaline in scarified, crushed, and whole seeds were 87.5%, 91%, and 7.5%, respectively, for KY-31, and 0.5%, 0.5%, and 0%, respectively, for Jesup MaxQ, based on ELISA. The ergovaline concentration of Jesup MaxQ was < 10 ppb compared to 5290 ppb in KY-31 as determined by HPLC. The results of this study indicate that the ELISA kit was a viable alternative to HPLC for detecting the presence of ergovaline producing endophytes in tall fescue seeds. Scarifying or gently crushing the seeds were suitable techniques for extracting alkaloids from seeds.
23433038|Post-harvest soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed conditioning operations can inflict mechanical damage to the seed. The objectives of this study were to 1) quantify the amount of mechanical damage at each impact point during seed conditioning and 2) evaluate the effect of the bean ladder in minimizing mechanical damage and improving seed quality during conditioning. Soybean seed from a single seed lot of cultivar H6686 were loaded into two storage bins, one with a ladder and the other without a ladder. Seed were sampled at five stages during receiving and nine stages during cleaning and bagging and evaluated for moisture content, germination, and percentage of cracked seed coats (CSC). The seed in the bin filled with the bean ladder had a significantly lower proportion of CSC and significantly higher germination than seed in the bin without a ladder. Seed sampled from the bin without the ladder had a consistently higher percentage of CSC at most drop heights; however, the difference was significant only at the greatest height, 25.1 m. Seed sampled from the bin with the ladder exhibited significantly higher germination than seed from the bin without the ladder at drop heights of 16.8 m or greater. Seed removed from the bin with a ladder had significantly higher germination at the end of the cleaning and bagging phase than the seed from the bin without a ladder. The bean ladder helped reduce mechanical damage during the receiving phase and maintained a higher level of seed quality at the end of the cleaning and bagging phase compared to the bin without a ladder.
23433039|A simple method for the precise orientation of very small specimens for paraffin sectioning is described. The orientation is accomplished under magnification as the paraffin solidifies along a controlled temperature gradient.
23433037|The grains of Triticum aestivum (L.), c.v. HD-2204, were imbibed in 10-6 or 10-8 M aqueous solutions of IAA; 4-ClIAA; 5-ClIAA; 6-ClIAA; 7-ClIAA; 4,6-Cl2IAA or 4,7-Cl2IAA for 6, 12 or 24 hours and transferred to distilled water for germination up to 96 hours. Monochloroindole-3-acetic acids, irrespective of their concentration and duration of soaking, improved germination (%) and the activity of -amylase, noted at three durations of soaking. Dichloroindole-3-acetic acids were as effective as IAA. Twelve hours soaking in 4-ClIAA proved best but was closely followed by 7-ClIAA.
23433032|Seed identification manuals are used by seed analysts as references to identify seeds. However, the success of this task is limited because such manuals only supply two-dimensional seed photographs and diagrammatic representations. In this study, a new, three-dimensional representation of seeds is described to supplement these traditional photographs and drawings. QuickTime VR is a promising method for viewing three-dimensional objects on a computer screen. Unlike traditional computer media such as static images or movie clips, it permits the user to rotate the object and view it from various angles on the computer screen, giving the viewer the sense of examining a hand-held object. In this study, an interactive computer medium is developed using QuickTime VR technology to allow the user to experience the sensation of examining actual seeds. This approach allows examination of virtual seeds from any angle, permitting more accurate identification by seed analysts and serving as an excellent instructional medium for those who study seeds.
23433036|A common nondestructive method to obtain filled seed is to place them in water and select the seeds that sink. We used two techniques to evaluate this method in determining native juniper seed fill. Seeds were placed in water and separated into groups that sank and floated. The fill status of the two groups was determined by opening and visually inspecting the contents of 1000 seeds from each group and by viewing x-ray films of 1935 seeds that sank. Though more filled seeds sank than floated (2 = 313.72, p<0.05) and the number of filled seeds observed in opened versus x-rayed seeds did not differ (2 = 1.2281, p> 0.05), approximately 30% of seeds that sank were not filled. This error can be attributed to empty seeds that sank having thickened coats. Use of this nondestructive method in conjunction with x-ray eliminated the error and allowed selection of 100% filled seed.
23433034|The seed trade in the United States markets an ever-growing list of native species in response to increased demand from horticultural and revegetation users. Proper germination timing is critical for these wildland-adapted species and is often regulated through various forms of seed dormancy. Significant within-species variability in seed germination behavior is common for broadly adapted species of the Intermountain West (USA). High levels of intra-specific variability in germination behavior make selection of a single, best germination test problematic. Protocols employing multiple tests can be effective in determining both seed viability and dormancy for variable species. The ability to deliver meaningful seed quality information for native species will be enhanced as a multi-method philosophy is further embraced and utilized by seed analysts and their organizations.
23433028|The challenges facing the traditional seed analyst today are highly technical and complex. A better understanding of this profession can be obtained by examining the knowledge and practical skills the analyst must possess. The environment that surrounds the seed analyst, including economics, is an important factor that must be addressed if this profession is to obtain parity with other scientific professions. Examples of the value of the commodity the analysis report represents and the environment surrounding the analyst performing the analyses are reviewed.
23433040|Paraffin sectioning of hard or brittle plant material may often be facilitated by reimbibition of the tissue after embedding in paraffin; however, when sectioning seeds, reimbibition may cause the specimen to break out of the paraffin. If the reimbibition is carried out at a temperature just below the melting point of the paraffin, the tissue will not break loose of the paraffin and good sections may easily be obtained.
23433033|Seeds of finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn. var. KAT/FM-1) and those of Amaranth (Amaranthus hybridus (L.) ssp. cruentus (L.) Thell.) were stored in hermetically sealed, laminated aluminum foil packets, for up to 252 days at different constant conditions, which included combinations of temperatures ranging from 15 C to 40 C and moisture contents ranging from 5.3% to 17.3% (fresh weight basis). Seeds were sampled from storage for viability determination at different intervals depending on the storage regimens. Viability decline during storage was generally rapid at higher temperature and/or moisture content combinations. The effect of storage conditions on viability was quantified using viability equations. For each of the two species, the estimated periods for viability to fall to 50% (p50 value) decreased with an increase in the storage temperature and/or moisture content. Viability constants for each of the two species were obtained and used to predict longevity at various non-extreme hypothetical storage conditions. At comparative storage temperature and moisture content combinations, seeds of the two species differed considerably in longevity. The constants obtained in the present study could be applied in predicting storage life of seeds of the two species, especially under short to medium-term storage conditions.
23433030|Although the accelerated aging (AA) test is recommended to measure soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) seed vigor, a uniform AA procedure has not been developed for testing corn (Zea mays L.) seed. This study evaluated the effect of aging time, temperature and seed treatment on corn seed germination and related AA results to cold test germination and field emergence. Forty grams of fungicide treated and untreated seed from four seed lots across two hybrids were aged at 41 and 45C for 72, 96 and 120 hours. Aging treated seed for up to 120 hours at 41C caused no reduction in germination, however, significant reductions in germination occurred after 96 hours for untreated seeds. Both treated and untreated seed aged at 45C showed significant reductions in germination after 72 hours. Two AA treatments (41C, 96 hours, 45C, 72 hours) which gave the best separation in seed lot vigor were compared to tray cold test germination across many additional seed lots and several hybrids. Both AA procedures were highly correlated with each other, however, the germination levels were lower using the 45C, 72 hour treatment. Neither AA procedure related well to cold test germination for treated seed. Standard germination, AA (45C, 72 h) and cold test germination were related to field emergence in nine experiments across three years. A field emergence index (FEI, mean field emergence/mean standard germination  100) for each planting date showed a range in field conditions from severe stress (FEI = <65) to near ideal (FEI = 97). The prediction accuracy (proportion of seed lots in each experiment that had 70 or 80% field emergence) was high for standard germination only in near ideal field conditions. As stress increased in the seedbed (FEI 75 to 90), at a minimum acceptable vigor level of 80%, both AA and cold test accurately predicted field emergence. Thus, the seed industry may want to consider both tests when screening genotypes for maximum field performance.
23433031|Comparisons among the AOSA purity testing method for hard fescue (Festuca brevipila R. Tracey) and sheep fescue (F. ovina L.), and three other more efficient methods were made by the AOSA Purity Subcommittee. Percent pure seed, number and type of seed unit attachments, quantity of inert matter recovered from attachments, time required for inert recovery, and laboratory performance were examined. Two alternate methods produced nearly identical purity results to the AOSA Method, with reduced analysis time requirements and no significant differences.
23433035|The number of strong seedlings in germination tests of acid delinted cottonseed [Gossypium hirsutum (L.) and Gossypium barbadense (L.)] after three days at 30C were compared to cool germination test results. Three comparisons were conducted, two with G. hirsutum L., (30 and 24 seed lots) and one with G. barbadense L., (seven seed lots). In the thirty seed lot comparison with G. hirsutum L., the 3-day count averaged 78.4% and cool germination test averaged 75.3%. Sixty percent of the 30 seed lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. In the second comparison of twenty four seed lots with G. hirsutum L., the 3-day count averaged 81.5% and cool germination averaged 81.4%. Ninety-one percent of the seed lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. In the seven seed lot comparison with G. barbadense L., the 3-day count averaged 81.0% and the cool germination test averaged 79.5%. Six of the seven lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. These data suggest that counting strong normal seedlings after three days at 30C may be an acceptable alternative vigor test for cottonseed where facilities and equipment for a cool gemination test are not available.
23433029|Changes in seed testing laboratories over the last 10 to 20 years require more from traditional seed analysts. New genetically modified seeds are tested using a variety of chemical, morphological, and genetic assays. Seed technology is becoming a profession with a definite career path, educational preparation, and aptitudes for success. In addition to doing routine seed testing, genetic purity analysts are involved in quality assurance of production processes, customer complaints, lab accreditation, and plant breeding programs. Analysts can enhance their profession both personally by continuing education, for example and in societies or associations by standardizing test methods or certification standards. The SCST is forming a new membership category of Registered Genetic Technologists to recognize genetic purity analysts. New tests, industry consolidation, higher customer expectations, and changes in the work environment all challenge the analyst to evolve professionally.
23433049|Breeding and quality assurance programs need accurate and affordable methods to test for the presence of intended and unintended genes in transgenic cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) varieties. The objectives of this paper were to describe in detail the Roundup Ready (RR) Rolled Towel Bioassay procedure for cotton planting seed and demonstrate the reliability of this test in identifying the intended RR trait in cotton seed. Seedlings were evaluated as susceptible if they have a shortened hypocotyl-radicle length with characteristic black lesions on the hypocotyls. Results using the RR Rolled Towel Bioassay were comparable to the RR lateral flow strip tests in 678 compared seed samples. The RR Rolled Towel Bioassay is an accurate and cost effective way to detect the presence of the RR trait in cotton seed.
23433054|A method of predicting the deterioration of corn (Zea mays L.) seed during storage would benefit seed producers and the seed industry. This investigation evaluated the ability of an alternative model and initial seed quality tests to predict changes in germination of inbred corn seed during storage in controlled environments. Eight fungicide treated seed lots with low levels of mechanical injury, high germination and a range in seed vigor were stored in sealed foil packets in six constant temperature and seed moisture environments: 20 C, 14%; 30 C, 12 and 14%; and 40 C, 10, 12 and 14%. Seed was sampled at regular intervals and tested for germination and moisture. Prior to storage the initial quality of each seed lot was determined by standard germination, cold test, accelerated germination and conductivity. In addition, the rate of deterioration and time to 50% loss of germination (P50) were estimated using a rapid aging test (40 C, 15% seed moisture). The model accurately predicted the time to decline to P50 in three storage environments (40 C, 14%; 40 C, 12%; 30 C, 14%), however, as P50 increased in improved storage conditions (40 C, 10%; 30 C, 12% and 20 C, 14%), the predicted P50 was much larger than the observed P50, which limits the usefulness of the alternative model. The P50 from the rapid aging test was significantly correlated with P50 in all storage environments. The accelerated aging test, conducted at 45 C, 72 h, was the only measure of initial seed vigor that was significantly correlated to P50 in most storage environments. Thus, rapid aging and accelerated aging can be used prior to storage to select seed lots with slow or rapid deterioration potential.
23433050|Woolly cupgrass, a weed species new to Canada, was found in Quebec in 2000. This is a potentially serious weed in the corn and soybean belt of southern Ontario and Quebec. Seed analysts are advised to watch for seeds of this species when conducting analyses. A brief history of the weed in North America is presented, along with illustrations and descriptions to aid in identification.
23433053|Electrical impedance spectroscopy techniques were developed for use on single seeds of snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) to assess and predict their germination potential. These seeds were aged in a manner that provided a range of seed qualities for testing. The test protocol established was noninvasive, requires careful moisture content regulation and can be completed in 24 hours. Two distinct dispersions were observed of which a low frequency dispersion correlated best with seed quality, and centered between 9.5 and 13.4 kHz with a real resistive component between 7 and 18 k. The low resistive values corresponded to seeds of low quality compared with seeds having high values. The Voigt impedance model represented the data well enough to provide parameters that could predict germination with an accuracy of 0.93 (ROC). An ROC (receiver operating characteristic) of 0.5 is simply a prediction by chance, while a value of 1.0 would indicate a perfect prediction with no false negatives or false positives.
23433048|This study was conducted to assess the efficacy of different vigor tests to evaluate physiological potential of tomato (Lycopersicon lycopersicum L.) seeds. Five seed lots of cultivars 'Debora Plus' and 'Bruna' were subjected to the standard germination, greenhouse seedling emergence, electrical conductivity, potassium leachate, accelerated aging, saturated salt accelerated aging and controlled deterioration tests. Results indicated that both accelerated aging procedures and controlled deterioration tests were the most efficient for evaluating tomato seed vigor, allowing the identification of different levels of seed quality. The potassium leachate test was a promising option primarily to identify tomato seed lots of lower physiological quality in a considerably reduced evaluation time. The electrical conductivity test was a less sensitive vigor test for tomato seeds since the evaluation of the release of electrolytes from the seeds was a less precise seed quality parameter. These results provide useful information regarding the assessment of tomato seed vigor and the identification of the saturated salt accelerated aging and potassium leachate tests as new alternatives in successful seed quality control programs.
23433052|Gibberellic acid is the natural inducer of the activity of -amylase, however, the presence of kinetin (an inducer of nitrate reductase activity), at an elevated level, was expected to be felt in the process of protein synthesis and the germination. Therefore, the grains of Hordeum vulgare (L) cv. PL-172 were soaked in aqueous solutions (10-6 M) of gibberellic acid and/or kinetin for 6, 12 or 24 hours. The treatment improved percent germination of the grains and the activity of -amylase, irrespective of the hormone and the soaking duration. However, the best response was generated in the grains soaked in gibberellic acid for 12 hours where germination and the level of the enzyme activity increased by 156% and 90% respectively, over the control.
23433046|Seed germination requirements of white horehound (Marrubium vulgare L.) were investigated to improve agronomic knowledge of this species and allow its cultivation as a medicinal plant. Fresh seeds of white horehound were positively photoblastic and capable of germinating throughout the temperature range examined (1040 C), with highest percent germination at 3035 C. In this range of constant temperatures, over half the seeds remained dormant. Dormancy breaking was achieved by incubating seeds at alternating temperatures. With increasing range of temperature fluctuation, seed dormancy decreased to the point of abolishing the light requirement for germination. Far-red light inhibited germination. Germination was inhibited proportionately into depth of burial in peat-perlite. However, incubation of buried seeds in alternating temperatures in dark attenuated this inhibition. In conclusion, our germination tests evidenced that temperature fluctuations of the substrate represent the crucial environmental parameter for the germination and emergence of buried seeds. Consequently, the typical thermal fluctuations of spring appear to be suitable for the agronomic propagation of this species.
23433044|The dependence of seed storage life (longevity) on temperature and moisture content can be quantified and predicted using the seed viability equation. Survival data during storage of seeds of two varieties each of delphinium (Delphinium elatum L.) and salvia (Salvia splendens F.) at two temperatures (20 and 30 C) and five relative humidities (33, 43, 53, 62, and 75%) were used to determine the constants of the seed viability equation. Normal seedling or radicle emergence scoring criteria for germination tests to assess seed viability were also compared. For salvia seeds, both criteria gave closely correlated results, while normal seedling counts were more reliable for delphinium seeds. Our results confirm the applicability of the seed viability equation for quantifying seed storage behavior, and provide values for the constants of the seed viability equation for two ornamental flower species.
23433051|Seed vigor tests must be standardized before they can be accepted by seed testing associations. The primary objective of these two referees was to determine the level of variability that occurs within and among seed laboratories when conducting the accelerated aging (AA) vigor test for soybean seed. The nine AOSA and SCST laboratories that participated in these referees all had previous experience with AA testing and the equipment needed (water jacketed chamber) to conduct the test. All laboratories agreed to conduct both the standard germination (SG) and AA tests on replicated soybean seed samples that were coded for testing so that the identity of the seed lots was unknown in a blind referee. Only seed lots with acceptable standard germination, but a range in seed vigor were selected for the referees. There was greater variability among and within laboratories for AA germination than for standard germination, which was expected because of the lower germination scores and many more abnormal seedlings. The variability for AA was much greater in 1999 than in 2000 because of poor calibration of aging chamber temperature in three laboratories. Uniform AA results were achieved within and among seed laboratories in 2000. The data sets from these two referees were used by the ISTA Statistics committee to establish tolerance levels to be used for the AA test of seed vigor for soybean seed.
23433045|Phenolic acids are natural compounds in several plants, which can influence cell morphology, physiology and metabolism. It has also been observed that these compounds can affect seed germination. This study evaluated the influence of -hydroxybenzoic acid on seed germination and vigor, and quantified the total lipids and total soluble proteins in soybean seedlings. Seeds of the cultivar BR-37 were planted on paper towels at different concentrations (0; 0.1; 1.0; 5.0; 10.0 mM) of -hydroxybenzoic acid and germinated at 25C for 8 days. Evaluations were made for: germination, radicle and hypocotyl length, as well as fresh and dry biomass. The lipid contents of cotyledons and proteins in the three components (radicle, hypocotyl and cotyledons) of seedlings were assessed after 7 days at 25C. The results showed that there were no significant differences in cumulative seed germination (radicle emergence) in the presence of the compound studied. However, the percentage of normal seedlings at the final (8 days) count declined sharply from 70% (control) to 7.1% at 10.0mM -hydroxybenzoic acid. A significant reduction in the length, fresh and dry biomass of radicles was observed as concentration increased. A decrease of lipid content was found in cotyledons, and an increase of protein content was shown at high concentrations of the phenolic compound. The results showed that -hydroxybenzoic acid negatively affects not only seed germination, seedling growth and development, but also the metabolism of lipids and proteins.
23433047|Germination tests for seeds of many species require moist prechill at 25 C to break dormancy. In practice, however, seeds are sometimes prechilled at temperatures as high as 10 C. To document the importance of prechill temperature and duration, seeds of 12 wildflower species native to Utah (Balsamorhiza sagittata, Castilleja applegatei, C. chromosa, C. flava, C. linearifolia, C. rhexifolia, C. scabrida, Cleome serrulata, Pedicularis groenlandica, Penstemon cyananthus, P. eatonii and P. sepalulus) were subjected to a series of laboratory germination treatments with 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks of prechill at 1, 3, 5, and 7 C followed by 4 weeks of incubation at 10/20 C. Viability evaluation for each species was estimated using a tetrazolium test. Seeds of all species were dormant without prechill, and very few of the collections showed a significant response to 4-week prechill. Prechill at 7 C was largely ineffective and only C. linearifolia and C. serrulata responded to prechill at 5 C. Seeds of P. cyananthus and C. flava responded positively to prechill, but 3 C resulted in slightly higher germination than did 1 C. P. eatonii and P. sepalulus required more than 8 weeks of prechill at 1 or 3 C for germination to exceed 35%. For seeds of B. sagittata, C. scabrida and C. chromosa, germination response increased with increasing prechill duration up to 16 weeks. Finally, C. rhexifolia, C. applegatei and P. groenlandica had maximum germination percentages < 40%, regardless of prechill temperature or duration. Discrepancies between maximum germination percentages and total viability indicate that prechill for periods longer than 16 weeks may be necessary for many seeds to germinate. Because such long periods are impractical for seed testing, tetrazolium staining or germination tests that include the use of dormancy-breaking chemicals should be considered.
23433507|There are seven North American and three introduced European Glyceria species growing in western North America, yet distinguishing among the species is morphologically challenging. As contaminants in agronomic grass seed lots, the introduced species G. declinata and G. fluitans are undesirable domestically, while North American species are undesirable in seed grown for international trade. In order to distinguish between the western North American and introduced European Glyceria species we designed PCR, Taqman SNP, and DNA sequencing assays. The PCR assays are co-dominant markers in which a larger sized amplification product is detected in G. declinata, G. fluitans, and G. fluitans-like G. occidentalis than is detected among the other species. The Taqman SNP assay shows VIC hybridization signal for G. declinata and FAM hybridization signal for G. fluitans and G. fluitans-like G. occidentalis. DNA sequencing of the chloroplast trnK region and the nuclear ribosomal ITS-1 region provide several SNPs that identify each of the individual species. However, Glyceria occidentalis samples contain chloroplast and ITS-1 sequences identical to either G. leptostachya or G. fluitans, thus currently cannot be distinguished with DNA markers.
23433503|Desiccation sensitivity is the main characteristic of recalcitrant seeds that poses limitations to practices such as storage and direct seeding. This study investigated the effect of parent tree, seed size, and desiccation time on seed variables, seedling growth, and starch thermal properties for Quercus macrocarpa. We expected to find an effect of parent tree, but not for the seed size due to narrow size ranges available for the study. We hypothesized that desiccation time would negatively affect seed variables and seedling growth, while starch thermal properties would also be altered. Two parent trees with distinctive pericarp characteristics (Type-1 with tougher/darker pericarp than Type-2), and two seed sizes (19.5 and 20.5 mm in diameter) for each parent were selected. Seeds were placed to desiccate in a room at ambient relative humidity, and temperature > 21 C, with seeds being sampled every two days. Parent tree and seed size affected almost all seed variables and the onset of starch gelatinization, with larger values for larger seeds. Parent tree also affected seedling growth, with larger values for the Type-1. Desiccation time negatively affected the majority of the studied variables. Respiration decreased with desiccation time, with greater values for larger seeds. Our results suggest that practices such as direct seeding could be enhanced by proper parent tree and seed size selection, since those variables could delay the deleterious effects of desiccation. Starch thermal properties also proved to be indicators in tracking metabolic alterations during desiccation.
23433504|Egusi melon Colocynthis citrullus L. is an important food crop in Nigeria and other West African countries where it is cultivated for its seed that is rich in oil and protein. This study was carried out to estimate the components of variation in seed moisture, fat, ash, protein, and fiber. Eight inbred lines of egusi melon cultivars (NS-B, NS-W, NS-E, NS-R, Ov-1, Sewere, W.SE and B.SE) were used. Crosses were made with these inbreds and F1s, F2s and BCs were obtained. The result revealed extensive genetic variation in the seed components. Percentages of protein and ash had higher coefficient of variation than the other components measured indicating higher variability. High broad sense heritability was recorded in all seed components implying the potential for improvement through selection. This was confirmed by the high expected genetic advance in selection recorded.
23433505|Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg.) seeds are difficult to germinate in the laboratory and nursery due to multiple dormancies. The response of Rocky Mountain juniper to different seed conditioning and germination treatments were examined. The viability of the original seedlot was increased through seed sizing and weight separation. Following this, 21 germination treatments were tested to determine their effectiveness in promoting germination. Fifteen new germination treatments were evaluated and compared with the six best germination treatments cited in the literature. Seed sizing did not affect seed viability significantly, but weight separation increased viability about 7 to 10% for medium to heavy weight classes. Three germination treatments yielded the highest germination ranging from 45 to 55%. A warm stratification period followed by a cold stratification period produced the best germination; increasing the warm stratification from 8 to 12 and 16 weeks improved germination. The best germination treatment, proposed by Clark Fleege (Manager, USDA Forest Service Bessey Nursery), was a 3 d water soak, followed by 16 weeks warm stratification and then 13 weeks cold stratification. Reducing the warm stratification period by 4 weeks was the second best germination treatment. The third and fourth best germination treatments were Van Haverbeke and Comer's 90 min peroxide soak and a 6 d 10,000 ppm citric acid soak followed by warm and then cold stratification. The study shows that additional seed sizing and weight separation coupled with germination treatments are required to increase germination for Rocky Mountain juniper seeds.
23433506|Seeds of Rosmarinus officinalis L. (rosemary) exhibit slow and irregular germination. Improvement of germination rate and percentage may enable commercial propagation from seed instead of cuttings. To this aim, the effects of constant and alternating temperatures following cold stratification, incubation with GA3 under different temperature regimes, chemical scarification with sulfuric acid, and seed lot on the germination of rosemary seeds were studied. Prolonging the cold stratification period increased germination after 28 d (G28), and decreased days to 50% germination (T50). Temperature following cold stratification interacted with stratification period to increase germination rate. GA3 increased G28, and reduced T50, and the number of days between 10% and 90% germination (T90  T10). Temperature regime influenced all three parameters, but did not interact with GA3. Germination was greatest after 15 min exposure to H2SO4, while T50 decreased from 17.8 d in the untreated control to 11.5 d after 120 min exposure to H2SO4. Extract of rosemary seeds did not inhibit germination and growth of Lepidium sativum L. (garden cress) seedlings, indicating inhibitory chemicals in the rosemary seed coat are not likely to be responsible for germination irregularities in rosemary. Differences in percentage of filled seeds and embryo length may account for differences in germination among seed lots. Our study demonstrates multiple mechanisms are likely responsible for release from physiological dormancy and irregular germination in rosemary seeds.
23433510|Two sweet corn seed lots of each hybrid sh2 ('SWB 551' and 'Obsession') were primed by a non-osmotic method (drum priming) at 25 C for 6 h. During each cycle, 125 g of seeds were exposed to 6.0 mL of distilled water and then rotated in the drum for 1 h to ensure uniform absorption. After hydration, the seeds were incubated at 25 C for 0, 12, 24 and 36 h and dried under ambient conditions (25 C, 50% RH). Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) evaluations were compared with standard germination and seedling emergence tests. The results obtained in this study confirmed that SVIS is a practical, valuable approach to evaluating the efficacy of priming treatments in sweet corn seeds when using a vigor index ratio of 70% growth index and 30% uniformity index for evaluating seed lots considered commercially valuable, but possessing low vigor. Dois lotes de sementes de milho doce de cada hbrido sh2 ('SWB 551' e 'Obsession') foram submetidos ao condicionamento fisiolgico por um mtodo no osmtico (mtodo do tambor) a 25 C por 6 h. Durante cada ciclo, 125 g de sementes foram expostas a 6,0 mL de gua destilada e em seguida o tambor foi rotacionado por 1 h para proporcionar uniformidade de absoro. Aps a hidratao as sementes foram incubadas a 25 C por 0, 12, 24 e 36 h e secadas sob condies ambiente (25 C, 50% UR). Os resultados das avaliaes realizadas pelo Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) foram comparados com os observados nos testes de germinao e de emergncia de plntula. Os resultados obtidos neste estudo confirmaram que o SVIS  um mtodo prtico e valioso para a avaliao da eficcia do condicionamento fisiolgico de sementes de milho doce utilizando-se o ndice de vigor composto por 70% do ndice de crescimento e 30% do ndice de uniformidade em lotes comercialmente aceitos, mas apresentando baixo vigor.
23433508|The general responses to salt stress have been investigated in two lentil cultivars (Lens culinaris Med.) ILL6788 and Nugget, which have been identified as being salt tolerant and susceptible as adult plants, respectively. This research investigated the response of these cultivars to different salinity levels during germination. Germination medium (filter paper) was treated with aqueous solutions of 0, 2, 4 and 6 dSm-1 NaCl and distilled water (control) prior to planting. The highest salt concentrations caused a longer delay in germination and after seven days, germination percentage was 20% and 45% for the tolerant and sensitive lentil seeds respectively in 6 dSm-1 solution. Germination rate was decreased with increasing salt concentration and all treatments of NaCl were inhibitory to root and shoot elongation of seedlings in both cultivars compared to the distilled water controls. The Na+ concentration of two lentil cultivars in shoots and roots increased significantly as salinity concentration increased. Shoots accumulated much more Na+ than roots in both cultivars. Concentration of K+ in roots and shoots was reduced significantly with increasing NaCl concentration. The K+ concentration in roots and shoots increased significantly as incubation temperature increased up to 25 C. It was concluded that the tolerant lentil cultivar, ILL6788, was more sensitive than the susceptible cultivar, Nugget, to salinity over 2 dSm-1 during germination. It is therefore important to consider salinity response at different stages of growth when selecting for crop tolerance. [placeholder for Arabic characters]
23433511|Aerial parts of Clematis ispahanica Bioss., a medicinal plant, are being collected indiscriminately, thus it is an endangered species. Seeds were collected in 2007 and tested for germination and viability. The tetrazolium chloride test showed the seeds to be 93% viable, however the germination was 0% indicating nearly 100% dormancy. The objectives of this study were to investigate several methods for breaking dormancy and improving germination of this species. Fifteen seed treatments [sulfuric acid (98%, 15 and 30 sec), sulfuric acid (75%, 30 sec), GA3 (1500, 2000, 2500 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (250, 500 ppm, 48 h), IBA (500 ppm, 15 sec and 250 ppm, 30 sec), ethanol (96%, 24 h), 2,4-D (250, 500 ppm, 48 h), dry heat (60 C, 12 h) and chilling (5 C, 7 d)] were used. Sulfuric acid (98%, 15 sec), sulfuric acid (98%, 30 sec), GA3 (2500 ppm, 48 h), GA3 (2000 ppm, 48 h), GA3 (1500 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (250 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (500 ppm, 48 h), 2,4-D (500 ppm, 48 h) and chilling (5 C, 7 d) increased germination to 52, 28, 59, 41, 44, 40, 57, 7 and 7%, respectively. Whereas, 2,4-D (250 ppm, 48 h), sulfuric acid (75%, 30 sec), IBA (250 and 500 ppm, 30 and 15 sec), dry heat (60 C, 12 h) and ethanol (96%, 24 h) had no effect on germination. The results revealed that seed of C. ispahanica had nearly 100% dormancy, which may be both exogenous and endogenous. The treatments with the greatest degree of success in breaking dormancy were GA3 (15002500 ppm, 48 h), sulfuric acid (98%, 15 sec) and ethephon (250400 ppm, 48 h). However, the effectiveness of the methods depends on compound, concentration and treatment temperature and duration.
23433509|A simple seed germination protocol for Pleurospermum angelicoides (DC.) Cl., an endemic medicinal plant of west Himalaya has been developed. Among the various treatments (GA3, IAA, KNO3 and Chilling), chilling at 4 C for 7 d was found to be best with respect to percentage germination (55%) and seedling survival (77.8%). The other treatments (GA3, IAA, KNO3) reduced the percentage germination of the seeds as compared to control (40%). Improved percentage germination to chilling treatments corresponds well with natural condition where P. angelicoides seeds are covered with snow during the winter.
23433502|The cold test germination percentage of carryover seed corn lots treated with a seed-applied insecticide (SAI) can be below the seed industry's sale standard. However, the same seed lots have good emergence (80 to 90%) when planted in the field. The objectives of this study were to 1) evaluate the extent of cold test germination differences between carryover seed lots treated with fungicide + SAI or fungicide-only; 2) determine if an alternative preparation can be made to a seed lot prior to the cold test and the saturated cold test; and 3) address the accuracy of the conventional cold versus the saturated cold testing method in predicting field emergence. Nineteen seed lots treated with fungicide-only or fungicide + SAI were tested in the laboratory and the field. The cold test germination percentage of carryover seed lots treated with fungicide + SAI was lower than fungicide-only treated seed. When the treatments were removed with Tween 20, the cold test germination of the fungicide + SAI-treated seed was not significantly different from the fungicide-only treated control. The cold test of fungicide-only treated and fungicide + SAI-treated seed correctly estimated emergence under all field conditions. After the fungicide + SAI seed treatment was removed, the saturated cold test accurately predicted field emergence under "poor" field conditions but underestimated field emergence under "average" or "good" field conditions. Removing the fungicide + SAI treatment before conducting the cold test may help seed companies better predict field emergence of the seed lots.
23433310|High peroxidase activity in the soybean seed coat is controlled by a single dominant allele Ep. This peroxidase isoform represents up to 5% of the soluble protein in the dry seed coat of EpEp genotypes. The promoter and regulatory sequences of the soybean seed coat peroxidase gene could be used to drive expression of proteins of human and industrial importance. Soybean seed coats have unique features that make them ideal sites for this purpose. Several features were noticed in the 1524 bp upstream Ep promoter including four directed repeats, the as1 element of CaMV 35S promoter and a G-box like sequence. Transient assay results indicated that the 1524 bp 5 flanking promoter region was capable of driving GUS expression in the seed coat. Availability of the epep genotype and the nature of peroxidase activity enabled us to use peroxidase itself as a reporter to conduct the 5 sequential promoter deletion analysis. Promoter deletion analysis from -1524 to -467 of the Ep allele did not significantly affect peroxidase activity, and further deletion from -467 to -207 resulted in a sharp decrease in peroxidase activity in the seed coat. Two promoter fragments A4 (-467/-310) and A6 (-207/-1) were identified that interact with seed coat nuclear proteins. No DNA-protein complex was detected when these two fragments were incubated with root and leaf nuclear extracts, indicating that the binding of Ep promoter fragments and seed coat nuclear proteins was tissue specific.
23433312|To improve percent germination in seed lots of Albizia chinensis, seeds collected from 13 different provenances were examined under different temperature regimes (20, 25, 30, and 35 C) in the laboratory. Percent germination was optimal at 25 C. Seed lots were also pretreated with tap water (control), hot water, sulfuric acid (H2SO4), and rumen egesta (fresh sheep fecal matter as an incubation medium). Treatments with hot water, rumen egesta, and tap water considerably enhanced percent germination, irrespective of provenance. Soaking in H2SO4 or boiled water was ineffective in improving percent germination of the seed lots of A. chinensis. Seeds subjected to 25 C and a hot water pretreatment had the highest germination and took the least time for germination as compared to other temperature regimes and pretreatments. Among all the provenances compared, Josiara consistently had the highest germination across all treatments. Altitude (provenance) had an influence on germination, however there was little to no relationship between altitude and germination following laboratory treatments.
23433311|The germination behavior of 11 medicinal plant species under different temperatures was studied. Seeds of all species were exposed to eight constant temperatures ranging from 540 C. A linear model was applied to describe the germination rate-temperature relationship. Tested species showed clear differences in temperature requirements for seed germination. The highest germination percentage was observed within the ranges of 1525 C for Marrubium vulgare L., 1530 C for Origanum majorana L., 1030 C for Hyssopus officinalis L. and Silybum marianum L., 1025 C for Thymus daenensis Celak subsp. daenensis and Ocimum basilicum L. Germination of most species ceased or highly declined at temperatures of 35 C. The highest germination rate was observed within temperature ranges of 1530 C for Nepeta racemosa Lam., Oenothera biennis L. and H. officinalis, 1025 C for O. basilicum and Salvia nemorosa L., 2025 C for O. majorana L. and T. daenensis and 1030 C for S. marianum. The lowest base temperature was observed for Salvia sclarea L., S. nemorosa, H. officinalis and Centaurea benedicta (L.) L. All medicinal species studied in this research had a low, below 5 C, base temperature. Optimum temperature ranged from 1324 C, and the lowest optimum temperature belonged to C. benedicta. These germination requirements are insufficient to make a general conclusion for introducing the species into cultivation, however, these data provide basic temperature requirements for further research.
23433314|The lack of information about predicting seedling emergence of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) in field conditions prompted us to study the relationship between laboratory tests and field emergence. This experiment was conducted at Gorgan University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran. Seeds from five cultivars of safflower ('Abade', 'Hartman', 'Kino76', 'PI19829' and 'Zarghan279') were used in these experiments. Laboratory tests included standard germination (SG), accelerated aging (AA), seedling growth rate (SGR) and electrical conductivity (EC). The results revealed that the AA and EC tests provided better separation of safflower seed vigor levels than SG and SGR. Seed from 'Zarghan279' was the lowest quality with no difference in seed quality among the other cultivars. The fitted regression of the laboratory tests and field emergence trials showed that germination percentage after aging (R2 = 0.92**) and EC (R2 = 0.94**) were better related to field emergence than any of the other tests. Thus, EC and AA tests were the most successful in predicting the emergence potential of the safflower seeds.
23433313|Standard calibration samples are used in the uniform blowing procedure to calibrate General-type seed blowers to even out the physical variation among them and achieve uniformity in separating lightweight inert matter from pure seed. Currently, there is no standardized procedure for production of calibration samples for tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.), one of the main cool season forage crops in the U.S. The objective of this study was to develop a stepwise procedure to prepare standard calibration samples for tall fescue (TF) with proven uniformity, i.e., master calibration samples (MCS). The optimum blowing point (OBP) for tall fescue was identified. It was defined as the point at which almost all lightweight inert matter was removed via blowing (light fraction) and the pure seed remained in the heavy fraction. Various tall fescue samples representing different varieties, production years, and growing conditions were used to produce the light and heavy fractions of nine master calibration samples. Uniformity of the MCS developed in this study was tested. The MCS identified the OBP across several blowers, and, samples with different levels of inert matter were uniformly separated. The prescribed procedures can be used as a guideline to prepare master calibration samples for other species because the principles of preparation are the same.
23433309|Cleome gynandra L. is a traditional semi-domesticated leafy vegetable grown in East Africa. It belongs to the family Cleomaceae. Farmers save seed from each harvest for planting in the next season. C. gynandra seeds fail to germinate when planted immediately after harvest. Studies were conducted to determine appropriate seed treatments to overcome dormancy in freshly harvested C. gynandra seeds. Seeds were subjected to various dormancy breaking treatments including: potassium nitrate (KNO3), leaching, light, gibberellic acid (GA3) and chilling. Additional studies were carried out to determine the degree of dormancy in seeds harvested from pods at different positions on the plant. Among all treatments studied, application of GA3 at a concentration of 500 ppm resulted in the highest final germination. Stratification for two weeks at 5 C and germination in dark also improved germination significantly. While leaching had no significant effect, treatment with KNO3 and light reduced germination. Seeds from lower and middle positioned siliques germinated readily compared to those from upper siliques. We suggest for commercialization of C. gynandra seed that have high potential germination, treating seeds immediately after harvest with GA3 at a concentration of 500 ppm before being packaged and sold to farmers is a possibility that can be explored.
23433308|Influence of environmental factors on germination and emergence of Italian ryegrass [Lolium perenne L. subsp. multiflorum (Lam.) Husn.], including glyphosate-resistant populations, is lacking. Such knowledge would help improve our understanding of the biology and ecology of this problem species, which could in turn, aid in its management. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of temperature, light, pH, salt and osmotic stress, shikimic acid and planting depth on germination of glyphosate-resistant (R) and susceptible (S) Italian ryegrass populations. Overall, germination of both populations of Italian ryegrass was highest at 13 C and decreased when temperature increased to 20 or 27 C under both light and dark conditions. Light stimulated germination (57%) compared to darkness (41%) at 13 C, but light had no effect on germination at 20 and 27 C. The resistant population had higher germination (6987%) compared to the susceptible (3757%) at a pH range of 47. Seed germination decreased as NaCl concentration increased from 20160 mM and osmotic potential increased from o (distilled water) to -0.8 MPa in both populations. Germination of the R and S populations decreased from 76% to 25% and 67% to 12%, respectively, as shikimic acid concentration increased from 016 mM. Seedling emergence was highest from seed placed on the soil surface. Seedling emergence was less than 7% from seed planted at a 0.5 cm depth and no seedlings emerged from seed planted below 2.5 cm for both populations. Both populations germinated under a broad range of environmental conditions used in the study, however, the R population was higher than the S population.
23433622|Twenty one accessions of germplasm of Canavalia (C. ensiformis-12; C. gladiata-9), a wild edible legume collected from Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in South India were analyzed for oil content and fatty acid composition. The oil content in Canavalia ranged between 0.42.3%. The variability for oil content and fatty acid composition is presented in this paper. Seed lipids of all Canavalia accessions contained higher amounts of unsaturated fatty acids (69.181.8%) compared to saturated fatty acids (18.230.9%). Oleic acid was found to be the major component in all the seed lipids. Grid maps were generated using DIVA-GIS for the analysis of diversity based on total unsaturated fatty acids and total saturated fatty acids. IC310951, a C. ensiformis accession collected from Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest omega-3 fatty acid (linolenic acid, 11.4%) which forms an essential fatty acid.
23433620|Thrips that feed within florets on developing embryos in grass seed crops reduce yield and pose a risk of global dispersal as they remain cryptic within the lemma and palea in harvested seeds. In some species, a single thrips develops within one floret, and hence one seed is lost with each thrips-infested floret, irrespective of seed size. The objectives of this study were to determine the grass seed crop host range and percent seed loss due to floret-infesting thrips. The two-year study was conducted in western Oregon, a key grass seed production region in the USA. Three fields were surveyed for each crop, and 3,000 seeds were examined per field by stereo-microscope observation of 100 florets from each of 30 inflorescences in 2005 and 200 florets from 15 inflorescences in 2006. Crops surveyed include bentgrass (Agrostis castellana Boiss. & Reut.), annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb. subsp. arundinacea), Chewing's fescue [Festuca rubra ssp. Fallax (Thuill.) Nyman] and orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.). In both years, 94.4% of all fields surveyed were infested. Adults of one or two thrips species, Chirothrips manicatus Haliday and Limothrips cerealium Haliday, were recorded in florets of all grasses. Average percentage seed loss per crop ranged from 0.03% to 4.42%. In one perennial ryegrass field, however, 11.4% seed loss was recorded. The impact of thrips size and life cycle on crops infested, seed loss and potential risk of global dispersal based on harvest schedules is discussed.
23433621|An investigation on germination of annatto (Bixa orellana L.) was conducted. Water uptake studies showed that seeds were fully imbibed after 24 h. Soaking in water for 24 h enhanced germination (82%) compared to the untreated control (57%). Germination was improved to 93% and was coupled with a significant (p < 0.001) reduction in mean time to germination (MTG, 3.64 d) by soaking seeds in a 50 ppm gibberellic acid (GA3) solution for 24 h. Germination capacity for medium (97%) weight class seeds was higher than light (40%) or heavy seeds (60%). Significant (p < 0.001) germination variability was recorded among eight seed collections. Seeds collected from populations in Kariavattom (82%) and Kulathupuzha (80%) produced significantly higher germination coupled with a low mean time to germination.
23433619|Understanding the relationship between life cycle events of native species and their prevailing environmental conditions provides a framework in which site-specific propagation strategies can be developed. We examined the ecophysiological aspects of seed germination in three Allium species native to the Intermountain West (A. acuminatum, A. brandegei, and A. passeyi) to evaluate ecotypic variation in relation to the altitude of the collection site. Three populations of each species were evaluated along an altitudinal gradient. The study consisted of two laboratory experiments: 1) germination trials assessing the effects of moist chilling temperatures on germination percentage in each species; and, 2) germination trials measuring the response within and among species from contrasting habitats to moist chilling duration. The data demonstrate a strong among-species pattern of increasing dormancy with increasing elevation. Although germination in all three species responded favorably to moist chilling at 3 C, there was significant variation in the chill duration required to break dormancy. The presence of a non-dormant fraction only in the lowest A. acuminatum collection, and all three of the A. passeyi collections also indicates a higher level of selection pressure against this trait in sites with longer and more predictable winters. The observed patterns in seed germination are typical of survival strategies in other spring ephemerals. This current understanding of the influence of habitat on germination traits in these Intermountain Allium species will aid in the development of seed-source specific propagation protocol.
23433618|Most seed technologists and other seed industry professionals have little spare time to devote to professional development. A leave of absence to take college courses is not an option for most technologists or their employers. Yet new developments in seed biology make continuing education more important than ever. To help working seed industry professionals maintain proficiency and develop new skills, several seed technology programs/courses have been created at land-grant universities that are offered on the worldwide web. These web-based distance-learning programs can be completed at home as time permits without on campus residence. Three such programs are the Iowa State University MS and Certificate Programs in Seed Business and Technology (http://www.seedgrad.iastate.edu/sb), the Consortium for International Seed Technology Training (CISTT, http://www.seedconsortium.org/index.html) coordinated by The Ohio State University and partner universities in Brazil and Chile, and the National Seed Science and Technology Certificate program and the Seed Technology Education Certificate program, both offered through Colorado State University (CSU), http://step.colostate.edu. Oregon State University, Virginia Tech, and University of Kentucky also offer web-based distance-learning courses.
23433623|Mantisia spathulata Schult and M. wengeri Fischer are critically endangered and endemic ornamental zingibers restricted to a few pockets of Mizoram, Northeast India. Plants are decreasing at an alarming rate due to natural calamities and few countable representatives of both species exist in their wild habitats. To develop a system for rapid mass recovery and sustainability of the genetic diversity of the few existing plants, seeds of both species were germinated under in vivo and in vitro conditions. In vivo germination of seeds was very low (20% and 24% for M. spathulata and M. wengeri, respectively). However, germination in vitro was significantly enhanced. A maximum of 90.0% and 96.6% germination was recorded for M. spathulata and M. wengeri within 2 wk in MS medium supplemented with 4.3 M and 7.2 M GA3, respectively. Seedlings of both species were transferred to an experimental garden and maintained as a field gene bank that could be utilized for studying genetic variability.
23433624|The standardization of in vitro seed germination of Tartary buckwheat [Fagopyrum tataricum (L) Gaertn.] under ideal conditions has been studied. Seed samples were collected from different locations in Uttarakhand, northern India, covering maximum regions of cultivation for the species. Seeds were inoculated to germinate in glass flasks on agar using MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of two growth regulators, 6-Benzylaminopurine (BAP) and -Naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Cultures were inoculated under illumination (16 h daylight/8 h darkness) and in continuous darkness at 25  2 C. In vitro culture conditions improved the percentage and rate of seed germination. Average maximum germination was 87% in seeds treated with combination of BAP (1 mgL-1) and NAA (0.3 mgL-1) in the light conditions, which was significantly higher than in the dark conditions (78%). In light conditions, germination was 67% and 59% for cultures supplemented with BAP (3 mgL-1) and NAA (0.3 mgL-1), respectively. It has been concluded that light has a direct relationship with seed germination.
23433625|The effect of combinations of temperature and time for the accelerated ageing test (AA) were investigated using five lots of sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) seed. Sesame seed lots, which initially had a standard germination above 96%, were subjected to AA at temperatures of 47 and 49 C for 24, 48, 72, 96 and 120 h. The results showed that 47 C/72 h provided a better separation to evaluate the physiological quality of sesame seed lots than other temperature/time combinations. Thus, it can be concluded that this combination, 47 C/72 h, could be used to evaluate the seed vigor of sesame seeds. However, further work is required to confirm these results and make final recommendations.
23433603|The storage method to preserve seed quality is highly dependent on the recalcitrant, orthodox and intermediate nature of seeds. Storage behavior of Aconitum heterophyllum and Podophyllum hexandrum, two endangered medicinal plants of western Himalaya, is unknown, preventing cryopreservation of these species. To develop seed cryopreservation protocols for these highly valued medicinal species, moisture content and temperature effects on storability were evaluated by seed germination and viability. While seeds did not maintain high germination percentages when stored at 25 C, irrespective of moisture content, seeds of both species desiccated to 5% moisture content could withstand temperatures as low as 20 C. The critical storage temperature and moisture content of these seeds were 4 C and 5%, respectively, based on germination (100 and 75%) recorded after 12 and 24 months. This seed storage behavior characterized the seeds of both species as "orthodox". Following newly established moisture and temperature criteria, 14 accessions of P. hexandrum and two accessions of A. heterophyllum were successfully cryopreserved for future germplasm availability.
23433600|Seed vigor is defined as those "seed properties that determine the potential for rapid, uniform emergence and development of seedlings under a wide range of field conditions." The relationship between seed vigor and soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seedling emergence is well documented, but much less is known about the effect of seed vigor on the uniformity of emergence. Emergence of seedlings from seed lots with standard germination > 80% and seed vigor levels (accelerated-aging germination) from 5 to 94% was determined in greenhouse experiments that included variation in planting depth (2.5 to 6.0 cm), low temperatures, and sterile and pathogen-infected soil. Emergence (growth stage VE) was counted at 4- to 8-h intervals and the Gompertz model was used to describe cumulative emergence vs. time. The uniformity index (UI) (time from 10 to 90% of maximum emergence) varied from 15 to 160 h and increased as the time to 50% emergence (T50) increased. Seed vigor had no effect on UI when the seedlings emerged rapidly, but the UI for high-vigor seed was smaller (emergence was more uniform) than for low vigor seed when T50 was large (less than ideal conditions for emergence). The largest UI (160 h) occurred when low-vigor seed was planted deep in pathogen-infested soil. Seed size (sized vs. unsized or large vs. small) had no effect on UI. Uniformity was related to seed vigor, but only when conditions for emergence were less than ideal.
23433604|The present investigation was carried out to evaluate the carryover effects of foliar applications of nitric oxide (NO) using sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as a donor at 50, 100, 200 and 400 g mL-1 on seed quality in terms of seed germinability characteristics of Brassica napus L. (cv. GSL-1) under simulated drought conditions. Seeds harvested from SNP treated plants showed higher germination percentage, seedling length, seedling dry weight and seedling vigor as compared to controls when germinated at different PEG-induced osmotic potentials (0, 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 MPa). Seed imbibition, electrolyte leakage and relative water content of seedlings were also favorably altered following SNP treatments when seeds were germinated under simulated drought conditions. Thus, seeds from SNP treated plants performed better under all PEG levels indicating the improved quality of seeds in terms of germinability characteristics. Among different SNP foliar treatments, 100 g mL-1 SNP showed better germinability and seedling responses.
23433602|Myrica esculenta is well-known for its edible fruit and other by-products and has emerged as a potential income generating species. The species is generally propagated via seeds but physical dormancy caused by an impermeable seed coat results in unreliable germination. Fruits of M. esculenta were collected from nine sites varying from low, mid and high range of the species' distribution (9002100 masl) and used to study the influence of eight pretreatments on germination. Seeds treated with different concentrations and durations of sulfuric acid (H2SO4) failed to germinate. Seeds treated with hot water gave maximum germination ranging between 33% and 57%. Seeds treated with cold water showed 13% to 26% higher germination compared to the control, whereas germination following hot water treatment was 10% to 26% higher than germination following cold water treatment.
23433601|Salinity stress is a major environmental constraint in arid and semi-arid regions such as Iran. Excessive amounts of salt in soil severely reduce seed germination and seedling growth of crops in agricultural systems. The purpose of this research was to study the effect of temperature, salinity and their interaction on the germination and seedling growth of nine medicinal plant species. Treatments included three temperatures (15, 25 and 35 C) and four NaCl concentrations (0, 5.3, 8.48 and 10.6 g L-1). Results showed that salinity treatments significantly reduced germination percentage, germination rate, seedling growth and seedling vigor in all nine medicinal plant species. Germination percentage and germination rate of all medicinal plant species gradually declined as the concentration of NaCl increased. Ocimum basilicum was the only species among the nine medicinal plants in this study that germinated in salinity concentration of 8.48 g L-1. Germination rate and germination percentage of all species, except O. basilicum were adversely affected by increasing temperature to 35 C. The highest seedling vigor in most species was observed in a temperature range of 15 to 25 C and increasing temperature up to 35 C strongly decreased it. The interaction effect of temperature and NaCl concentration on final germination in all species was significant, indicating that germination response to salinity depended on temperature. The inhibitory effect of high salinity on final germination, germination rate, seedling growth and seedling vigor was greater at 35 C than at 15 C.
23433605|Seed germination of Mimusops elengi L. is hindered by a hard seed coat making natural revegetation through seeds very difficult. This study was conducted to establish a method of seed germination for M. elengi. Treatments included subjecting seeds treated to hot water and sulfuric acid (H2SO4) for 20 and 40 min, withering of viable seeds in cow and buffalo manure for 45 d and in vitro propagation on MS media fortified with plant growth regulators including IBA, 2,4-D, IAA, Kn, BA and GA at concentrations of 0.2 mg L-1. Well-developed seedlings were transferred to sterilized soil-sand mixtures and subsequently transferred to containers with soil and compost fertilizer for further growth. Sulfuric acid and hot water did not promote germination, while withering with manure improved germination. Seed germination was observed in media fortified with IBA, Kn, BA and GA while 2,4-D did not promote germination. In vitro developed seedlings were successfully transplanted to the field with a 100% survival rate. In vitro techniques proved superior to conventional techniques for seed propagation of M. elengi.
23433367|Research was conducted in 2005 and 2006 in eastern North Dakota to determine the value of the accelerated aging test in predicting field performance in hard red spring (Triticum aestivum L.) and durum (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) wheat. Four seed lots from four different cultivars were selected each year with standard germination greater than 76% and a wide range of germination after accelerated aging. Seed lots were planted in field plots and their emergence and agronomic performance measured. In 2005, seed lots within cultivars did not significantly differ in field emergence, yield or any other traits measured at harvest. In 2006, seed-lots did differ in field emergence and yield, but differences could not be explained by the results of the accelerated aging test. In both 2005 and 2006, correlations between the accelerated aging test and field emergence and yield were not significant nor were correlations between the standard germination test and field emergence significant. The data indicate that the accelerated aging test is a poor predictor of field emergence and yield of hard red spring and durum wheat, within the context of the environments where the research was conducted.
23433370|Successful oak regeneration is problematic because of species competition, environmental stresses, and the biological limitations of the recalcitrant oak seeds. This study investigated the effect of seed size and parent tree on 3-month-old seedlings for biomass and morphological variables. Seeds of Quercus macrocarpa and Quercus alba were separated into different sizes. Two Q. macrocarpa parent trees gave five "small" sizes (13 to 18 mm), while three parent trees gave five "large" sizes (18 to 23 mm). Two Q. alba parent trees gave three seed sizes (17 to 19 mm). Both seed size and parent affected seedling growth, with larger seeds performing better. All the biomass variables increased as seed size increased. Regression analysis indicated that root dry weight is a good surrogate for root area. Leaf area and number of first order lateral roots increased, while specific leaf area (SLA) decreased with increase in seed size. This suggests that seed size affects early developmental stages, with larger seeds giving rise to more vigorous seedlings with characteristics, such as thicker leaves (lower SLA), that enhance establishment success. Conclusively, larger seeds of the studied recalcitrant species could promote regeneration success and benefit nursery practices by reducing production cost when regenerating a site by planting seeds as opposed to transplanting seedlings.
23433369|This study presents a complete morphological and agronomic characterization of five local runner bean landrace cultivars, coming from an organic farm in Oteruelo del Valle (Madrid, Spain). The cultivars were evaluated following the descriptions of the Protocol for Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability test of Phaseolus coccineus L. (CPVO-TP/009/1 Final). A distinctness analysis of the local landraces compared to 12 different commercial cultivars inscribed in the European Union Common Catalogue was carried out. The results show a complete varietal description for each variety which allows differentiation the vegetable material selected by local farmers from the rest of the commercial varieties based in morphological and agronomical traits. This work will be the first step to later multiplication and conservation of the local material described, allowing the material used in organic agriculture to be included into breeding programs and possibly registering these local landraces as commercial varieties.
23433368|Four thousand-four-hundred and three seed inventories of Capsicum spp. obtained from the USDA/ARS Capsicum germplasm collection were tested for the presence of Pepper mild mottle virus (PMMoV). Approximately 32% of these inventories tested positive for PMMoV and the virus distribution was nearly uniform across the five cultivated species of this genus. Treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with 10% trisodium phosphate (TSP) for 2.5 h at room temperature reduced germination in 11/50 accessions examined and significantly increased the number of abnormal seedlings. Indicator plant [Chenopodium giganteum D. Don.formerly C. amaranticolor (Coste & A. Reyn.) Coste & Reyn] analysis revealed that treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with 10% TSP for 2.5 h reduced virus infectivity, but did not eliminate it. Treatment with 10% TSP for 24 h eliminated PMMoV from four of six tested accessions. Short-term treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with TSP prior to planting is expected to significantly reduce the incidence of the virus, but not eliminate it in all instances.
23433371|Swertia chirayita, a critically endangered and high value Himalayan medicinal herb was investigated to understand response of different populations on initial seed germination, and germination after storage at 4 C for 18 months. Populations differed significantly for seed characteristics, indicating considerable genetic diversity. Of 13 populations tested, eight exhibited 100% germination immediately after collection, which was negatively correlated with altitude of the sites where plants were growing. The results suggested an acceptable range of 16 to 42% seed moisture content, before storage, as suitable criteria for S. chirayita populations in long term gene resource conservation. Seed from 10 plant populations showed a steady decline in germination over the storage period. Varied germination responses offer a possibility of selecting elite populations as a seed resource in S. chirayita. The Mean Germination Time (MGT) significantly declined after six months, but increased after 12 and 18 months of seed storage for the majority of plant populations. The best germination and lowest MGT occurred for seed of S. chirayita that was sown six months after collection, followed by slightly lower levels at 12 months. Several populations tested offer promise for the conservation of this species as potential gene bank in Sikkim Himalaya.
23433366|Aged switchgrass seed lots can display various levels of dormancy. Understanding the causes for this dormancy will provide better insight into seed physiology, and potentially lead to treatments that reduce variability in seed germination assays. The effects of sodium nitroprusside, potassium ferrocyanide and hydrogen peroxide on the germination of eight aged switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) seed lots, seven of which were produced in the same year at a single experiment station, were examined. Seed germination demonstrated a significant seed lots  days and treatments  days effect. However, responses of individual seed lots to specific chemicals varied considerably. Genetically related seed lots did not display similar responses to the treatments, while switchgrass derived from a different germplasm exhibited a more similar response. Coleoptile emergence was significantly improved by chemical treatments and showed a significant seed lots  treatment interaction. Together, these results indicate (1) chemicals releasing reactive nitrogen species or peroxide can overcome residual dormancy and stimulate seed germination and coleoptile emergence in diverse switchgrass seed lots, and (2) multiple mechanisms, to some extent under genetic control, appear to direct switchgrass seed germination.
23433373|When comparing the efficacy of different chemicals on seed dormancy breakage, germination percentage alone is not a good descriptor of the phenomenon because the process can be triggered by high concentrations of a compound while other compound can be highly effective under very low concentrations. Because of that an Efficiency Index (Ief) relating the response (i.e. dormancy breakage) of dormant seeds of Townsville stylo (Stylosanthes humilis HBK) to several selenium (Se) compounds at their optimal concentrations was employed by Pinheiro et al. (2008 b). In this paper, the index is revised to a more coherent one (Efi), that relates the effect of the chemicals on germination in a more straight-forward way. The innate dimension displayed by the new index (amount of the chemical per unit germination percentage) is an expression of the tissue sensitivity to the chemicals.
23433372|Tectona grandis Linn. f. is a commercially important timber yielding tree species of the tropics. Teak wood commands worldwide reputation for its durability, strength, ease of working, moderate weight, beauty and dimensional stability. Hence, the areas under teak plantations are increasing rapidly and there is a greater demand for quality propagules of teak in the country. The information available on fruit germination among seed production areas (SPAs) of teak in India is limited. This study was conducted at the College of Forestry, Sirsi, South India. Fruits were collected from twenty SPAs during 2005 and 2006. The mean germination percentage of teak fruits collected from all SPAs was significantly higher after one year of storage (43.1%) compared to germination of fresh fruits (26.2%). Significant variation was recorded among the twenty SPAs for germination of fresh fruits (10.2 to 39.8%) as well as after one year of fruit storeage (13.8 to 63.8%). Variation was also among regions for germination ranging from 19 (Dandeli) to 32% (Madikeri) for freshly collected fruits and from 29 (Dandeli) to 53% (Yallapur) for one year stored fruits. This study has also shown that germination percentage was highly influenced by fruit traits such as fruit size and seed numbers per fruit and seed emptiness.
23433441|Hypocotyl collar rot in chickpeas (Cicer arietinum L.) may increase the variability in germination results between seed laboratories resulting in tests being out of tolerance. A study was conducted using two seed lots to evaluate the effectiveness of calcium nitrate for control of hypocotyl collar rot. Germination tests were conducted in four seed testing laboratories with and without calcium nitrate pre-treatments. The results indicate that calcium nitrate was effective in the control of hyopcotyl collar rot, which increased germination test results among laboratories.
23433437|Five experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of diurnal temperature variation on seed germination and hard seed content of three alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cultivars. The germination tests were mostly of 7 days duration, after which the seeds were classified as germinated (radicle  2 mm), fresh (swollen and radicle  2 mm), dead, abnormal, or hard. The first hypothesis tested was that germination under diurnal variations will be similar to that measured at constant 20 C. A diurnal temperature variation with a high temperature (i.e. 20/35 C [16-h night/8-h day]), resulted in alfalfa germination similar to that at 20 C. However, when the range in diurnal temperature was large and the temperature was high (i.e. 5/35 C), many seeds imbibed water but failed to germinate (fresh seed). When moved to favourable environmental conditions (i.e. 20 C), the majority of these fresh seeds germinated normally. Thus, the combination of a large range in diurnal temperature and a high temperature inhibited seed germination. The second hypothesis tested was that hard seed content is decreased by diurnal temperature variation compared with that at 20 C. A treatment including both a large range in diurnal temperature and high daytime temperature (i.e. 5/35 C) decreased the hard seed content, however these formerly hard seeds germinated when moved to favourable environmental conditions (20 C). The inhibition of seed germination and the decrease in hard seed content caused by a wide range in variable temperatures, did not depend on genotype or seed lot. However, whether or not the inhibited seeds originated from hard seeds or from rapidly (7 d) germinating seeds did depend on seed lot.
23433443|Tachigaren 70 WP is a fungicide approved in 1995 for use as a seed treatment for pelleted sugarbeet seed that has high germination and strong vigor. At the labeled rate Tachigaren 70 WP will control low levels of Aphanomyces, a fungi that causes seedling damping off, however, phytotoxicity has been reported in laboratory tests. Six pelleted seed lots were treated with Tachigaren and laboratory and field trials were conducted to evaluate the phytotoxic effects of the fungicide on germination and field emergence. Tachigaren treated seed resulted in lower standard germination compared to the control (AOSA blotter test) and a pleated paper germination test for all seed lots. When the test was conducted in a soil/sand mixture, the results for Tachigaren treated seed germination was similar to the control. Tachigaren significantly reduced field emergence in three of the six seed lots, but not to the extent measured bythe standard germination blotter test.
23433449|The historical association of white kernel color in wheat with susceptibility to preharvest sprouting and the comparative mapping information suggesting the possible involvement of maize (Zea mays L.) vivipary 1 were used as the basis for isolation and characterization of the wheat homologue. Consensus primers were designed based on conserved regions of the gene in rice (Oryza sativa L.), maize, and Arabidopsis. These primers were used to amplify a portion of the wheat vivipary 1 gene for sequencing and analysis. A comparison of sequence similarity between maize, rice, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) revealed that exons 1 and 6 are highly diverged among all the species. Sequence divergence for rice/maize/barley comparisons are similar across all exons. Comparisons with wheat indicate a trend for exons 2 and 5 to be slightly less conserved leading to lower sequence similarity overall for wheat. Barley sequences were all closely related to wheat, even for exon 6. If additional mapping data support a recent report that Vp1 is not responsible for red kernel color in wheat, this could facilitate enhancement of grain dormancy in white wheat by allowing manipulation of vivipary 1 without affecting kernel color.
23433438|One of the most important considerations of seed users is field performance of the seed lot, because the grower expects an ideal plant population. Several laboratory and field tests were conducted to determine the relationship between electrical conductivity (EC) and soybean seed quality and seedling emergence in the field and to determine the EC range which predicts establishment. Six cultivars representing 54 seed lots were used in 1993 and five cultivars representing 50 seed lots were used in 1994 with four cultivars in common in both years. The physiological quality of the seed lots was evaluated, and three field emergence (FE) tests were conducted each year. The evaluation of performance of the lots with specific EC values and their field emergence allowed the identification of electrical conductivity values, which may result in field emergence equal to or greater than the expected minimum. Seed lots with EC  90 mhos cm-1 g-1 resulted, in field emergence values that were equal to or greater than 70%, with a high degree of precision. The use of seed lots with EC up to 110 mhos cm-1 g-1, resulted in field emergence values equal to or greater than 60%, also with a high degree of precision. The electrical conductivity test appears to be a useful tool to help soybean growers to establish their seeding rate, based on the expected field environmental conditions.
23433440|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr] seed coats are an abundant and inexpensive source of peroxidase. Peroxidase's main function is to oxidize molecules using hydrogen peroxide and elemental oxygen as a donor. Therefore, soybean peroxidase could be an economical alternative to current chemical oxidation techniques. Peroxidase enzyme activity declines after harvest, therefore reducing the extraction horizon or preventing the loss of enzyme activity during seed storage could generate significant cost savings. The objective of this research was to determine the effect of seed moisture content and temperature during storage on soybean seed coat peroxidase activity. Seed lots of high peroxidase cultivars were conditioned to differing seed moisture levels (9 and 13%) and stored in controlled temperature incubators (10, 20, 30, and 40 C) or in a warehouse. Peroxidase activity was measured using the soybean seed coat peroxidase capture assay. Seed moisture did not affect the loss of peroxidase activity in stored soybean seeds but as storage temperatures increased from 10 to 40 C the loss of peroxidase activity was accelerated.
23433439|This study was conducted to measure variability in results of germination tests, to estimate tolerances needed to cover variation in test results, and to determine the minimum number of seeds required for producing germination results within the limits of established tolerances. Data were collected from conventional germination referee (CGR) tests on corn (Zea mays L.) and soybeans (Glycine max (L.) Merrill), conducted by up to 46 Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST) laboratories in the Midwest and Upper Great Lakes Region in 1994 to 1996. In 1997, a "blind germination referee (BGR) test" was conducted on the same crops by 2325 laboratories in the same region in which the individual replicates of the same seed lots were unknown to the analysts performing the test. A positive "inter-replicate bias" in which a significant correlation existed among the results of replicate tests occurred in the CGR but not in the BGR tests. Tolerance limits calculated for germination above 90% from both CGR and BGR test results were close to International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) Rules, but lower than those in the AOSA Rules. Tolerances calculated for germination levels below 90% from both CGR and BGR test results were generally higher than both the AOSA and ISTA tolerances. The greatest decline of test variability was observed when sample sizes were increased from one 100-seed replicate to two 100-seed replicates.
23433442|This preliminary study was conducted to determine whether the physiological quality of field bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seeds could be rapidly evaluated using the potassium leachate and the conductivity tests. Five seed lots of cultivar IAC-Carioca were tested for germination, accelerated aging (41 C/72 h) and exposed to nine preconditioning periods (from 1 to 24 h) at 25 C before conductivity readings. The potassium leakage was determined after six imbibition periods ranging from 15 to 90 min. Results confirmed previously reported information on the usefulness of the potassium leachate test as differences of physiological quality among seed lots were identified using the combination of 25 pure seeds imbibed in 75 ml distilled water at 30 C for 30 or 45 min. The possibility of shortening the imbibition period (up to 12h) for field bean seeds conductivity test was also determined.
23433018|Flower seed quality has improved markedly in the past 20 years. Standardized germination testing has not developed to more accurately reflect this improved seed quality. Eleven ideas are presented to improve seed testing and the reporting of seed testing results. Imaging technology is the most important of these. A failure to adopt and interpret the results of computer images following a germination test will ultimately lead to the obsolescence of AOSA in flower seed testing because this important work will be fulfilled by commercial companies.
23433017|A seed company's ability to produce high quality vegetable and flower seed depends greatly on how it manipulates common and unusual environmental and cultural situations arising in the production field. Many of these situations can be planned for, limited and controlled; however, problems always occur that are unexpected. Crop location, planting time, pollination, pest control, irrigation, nutrition and harvesting methods for each seed crop must all be considered, reviewed and/or controlled to ensure successful seed production. This review discusses the common cultural and environmental problems vegetable and flower seed companies have in producing high quality seed.
23433020|The successful result of a quality wildflower planting is the establishment of a natural environment of beauty for people to enjoy. Although the term "wildflower" appears simple, it is one of contention in the current wildflower market place. Wildflowers are desired for their less formal presentation and adaptation to a variety of environmental conditions. These same traits create problems with quality assurance of wildflower seed; problems that arise from the basic nature of wildflowers due to their wildness. The wildness of wildflower seed is expressed in a variety of ways that affect stand establishment, seed production, conditioning, laboratory testing and marketing.
23433019|Purity and germination testing provide a baseline value of vegetable and flower seed quality. The history of standardization of seed testing protocols for vegetable and flower seeds utilized by the Association of Official Seed Analysts over the past 100 years is reviewed. The ability to assess and convey levels of seed quality for vegetable and flower seeds is hampered by the lack of appropriate or standardized laboratory testing methods, or both. This discussion provides examples of problems ranging from kind and seed unit identification, classification of contaminants, germination test methods and seedling evaluation. Emphasis is placed on the need to develop and refine laboratory testing procedures and improve seed analyst training with the focus on standardization within and among laboratories.
23433025|Seed dormancy in small-seeded vegetable and flower crops impacts both seed production and germination. Seed dormancy can also complicate assessment of seed quality by the seed analyst who requires prompt germination to evaluate a seed lot. These crops also display diverse mechanisms for seed dormancy. This review surveys and categorizes the different seed dormancy conditions found in this important group of plants. Vegetable and flower genera are listed according to dormancy type. Categories of dormancy include primary and secondary dormancy. Within primary dormancy, examples of vegetable and flower genera can be found that display exogenous, endogenous and combinational dormancy. Secondary dormancy can be an important problem in selected vegetable and flower seeds. Specific examples are given for each type of dormancy along with methods to alleviate dormancy. Tables are included that group vegetable and flower genera according to dormancy type.
23433021|The high sucrose content of shrunken-2 (sh2) or supersweet sweet corn inhibits drying of the seed crop in the field, and necessitates a long (70 day +) period of maturation after pollination before harvest and artificial drying of the seed crop. During this time, the ear is highly susceptible to invasion by insects and rotting by fungi. Stringent insect control is crucial for production of disease-free seed. Certain of the ear-rotting fungi, most notably Penicillium oxalicum, are seed-transmitted, causing disease and mortality in sweet corn seedlings. This necessitates treatment of the seeds with a strong mixture of fungicides, including a broad-spectrum systemic fungicide where possible. During maturation of the seed crop in the field, physiological changes gradually occur in the seed, rendering it capable of high seed vigor after commercial harvest and drying. Seed parents differ dramatically in inherent seed vigor, resistance to stress and pests, and in the length of the maturation period needed to produce seed of the highest possible vigor. Commercial seed lots sometimes exhibit poor seed vigor, in spite of high germination. Vigor tests, such as the accelerated aging test, are useful for predicting the field emergence potential of sh2 seed lots.
23433022|Recognition of the importance of seed-borne diseases in vegetable and flower seeds is often overlooked, particularly in the case of flower seeds. Plant diseases may be found in, on or with seed and seed lots. Seed-borne diseases may be grouped according to their causal agents, fungi, bacteria, viruses nematodes etc.. Development of disease in a crop as a result of seed-borne inoculum is a result of the interactions between the pathogen, its host and the environment. Epidemiology is the study of these interactions. Effective disease management programs and the development of reliable and accurate methods for seed health testing is dependent upon an understanding of plant disease epidemiology.
23433024|Priming is a treatment that partially hydrates seeds so that germination processes begin, but radicle emergence does not occur. Experimentally, priming treatments are limited only to conditions that do not result in premature radicle extension and may include: equilibration under conditions of high humidity, soaking in water or osmotic solution, equilibration with a matric-potential control surface, intermixture with a porous matrix material, and moisture addition to a seed water content less than required for germination. Commercial priming technology has evolved from osmotic priming to solid matrix priming and finally drum priming which is gaining acceptance for large-scale use. The degree of enhancement from priming depends upon the initial quality of the seed, the species being treated, treatment conditions such as temperature, water potential (), duration, and other conditions specific to the priming medium. There is no simple recipe for determining the best priming treatment for a particular species. Priming treatments must be determined empirically. In several species, the optimal  for priming ranges from the least negative  that prevents radicle emergence to approximately -2.5 MPa. Some reported effects of priming include increased germination rate, greater germination uniformity, increased germination percentage, advancement of maturity, wider temperature range for germination, repair of cellular damage, weakening of barriers to embryo growth, reduced seed storage life, increased protein synthesis, and removal of dormancy. However, it is increasingly apparent that the effects of priming differ widely among species. The evolution of priming technology is reviewed as well as our current knowledge of how priming enhances germination performance.
23433023|Beneficial bacteria and fungi provide promising alternatives or supplements to chemicals as seed treatments against soilborne pathogens. This review provides an assessment of biological control agents (BCA's) currently used with vegetable crop species, and key limitations to expanded use of BCA's as seed treatments. Research areas for improved biological efficacy and reliability in field and greenhouse settings are also discussed. The ability of BCA's to effectively colonize and grow with the seedling root system may be particularly useful when crops experience environmental stress. Improved application methods to optimize the density and uniformity of biologicals on seeds are increasing the reliability of BCA technology. Early results also suggest variable levels of BCA compatibility with chemical seed treatments and other microbial applications. Progress in storability, ease of application and economy of BCA production will be needed to move biologicals beyond their niche position in the seed treatment market.
23433419|An efficient method of propagation for Vanda coerulea, a rare and endangered species, was developed via in vitro asymbiotic germination of seeds. Seeds excised from 10 to 11-month old artificially pollinated capsules were cultured aseptically on different media. A maximum seed germination of 71.8% was recorded on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium devoid of plant growth regulators. However, incorporation of either 5 M 6-benzyl aminopurine (BAP) or 5 M indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) separately in the MS medium further enhanced seed germination to 94.4% and 92.6%, respectively. A maximum shoot number of 13.2 with an average of 5.1 roots was obtained on MS medium supplemented with a combination of 5 M BAP and 15 M IAA. Well developed seedlings of V. coerulea were hardened in a potting medium comprised of charcoal, brick pieces and decaying litter in a 1:1:1 ratio, with a top layer of moss, wherein 91.2% survivability was obtained.
23433422|The soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed count test is routinely conducted to achieve desired field planting rates. Over or under-seeding affects seed production systems adversely. This study was conducted to establish meaningful tolerances that can be used for truth-in-labeling purposes. Experiments were conducted to 1) measure seed count variation among and within laboratories, 2) assess the effect of bag to bag variation within a seed lot on seed count tests, 3) measure the impact of seed moisture content on seed counts, 4) compare electronic versus manual seed count methods, and 5) determine the effect of sample size and number of replications on test variability in order to establish appropriate tolerances for seed count tests. Eight soybean seed lots were used by 42 laboratories over a three-year period to test the above variables. Results showed that including outlier test results (extreme values) contributed to variation in seed count tests within and among laboratories. Heterogeneity from bag to bag within a seed lot was significant and should be considered in establishing tolerances. Adjusting moisture content of seeds to a uniform level increased seed count test variation. Electronic and manual seed count methods produced comparable results. Sample size was more important than number of replicates per test. A 3.1% tolerance value was recommended as the largest insignificant difference between two test results. In case of lot heterogeneity, tolerances of 4.5 to 5% should be considered.
23433420|Seeds and seedlings of Pinus radiata may be seriously damaged by the canker fungi Diplodia pinea and Fusarium circinatum. This study evaluated alternative seed disinfection treatments against these canker fungi. Experiments were conducted to determine both inhibitory and fungicide effects on colony growth of D. pinea and F. circinatum. Treatments included 24 chemicals at four doses of 1, 10, 100 and 1000 g mL-1, eight essential oils at five dilutions of 10, 25, 50, 75 and 100% v/v, two antagonistic organisms, Trichoderma harzianum and Trichoderma harzianum, from Basque Country plantations, and four thermotherapy treatments of 55C for 8, 9, 10 and 11 hours in vitro. Fungicide and fungistatic effects on inhibition of fungal colony growth were evaluated and phytotoxicity of treatments on P. radiata seeds analyzed. Fusarium circinatum and D. pinea responded in similar ways to the tested treatments, although D. pinea was often inhibited at lower doses of chemical fungicides and higher doses of essential oils. Thermotherapy and Trichoderma treatments showed greater effectiveness against the D. pinea strain than the F. circinatum strain. Germination of P. radiata seeds was highly affected by essential oils application, causing a strong inhibitory effect ( 92.25% germination inhibition) with most of the tested oils. Semillas y plantas de Pinus radiata pueden ser daadas por Fusarium circinatum y Diplodia pinea. El principal objetivo de este estudio fue evaluar tratamientos de control alternativos frente a los hongos D. pinea y F. circinatum para su aplicacin en la desinfeccin de semilla. Se llevan a cabo experimentos para determinar ambos efectos, inhibidor y fungicida, en el crecimiento de las colonias de los hongos patgenos. Los compuestos qumicos y organismos utilizados incluyen : 24 compuestos qumicos (se testan 4 dosis 1, 10, 100 y 1000 g por ml), 8 aceites esenciales (cinco diluciones: 10, 25, 50, 75 y 100% v/v), dos colonias de organismos antagonistas (dos tratamientos de Trichoderma harzianum comercial y Trichoderma harzianum procedentes de plantaciones del Pas Vasco) y cuatro tratamientos de termoterapia (testados en un incubador a 55C durante 8, 9, 10 y 11 horas) in vitro. Se evala el efecto fungicida y fungiesttico en la inhibicin del crecimiento de las colonias de hongo y se analiza la fitotoxicidad de los tratamientos en semillas de P. radiata. F. circinatum y D. pinea respondieron de forma similar a los tratamientos testados aunque D. pinea fue, a menudo, inhibida a dosis ms bajas de fungicidas qumicos y ms altas de aceites esenciales que F. circinatum. Los tratamientos de termoterapia y con Trichoderma mostraron mayor eficacia frente a la cepa de D. pinea que frente a la de F. circinatum. La germinacin de las semillas de P. radiata fue altamente afectada por la aplicacin de aceites esenciales, causando un efecto inhibidor fuerte en la mayor parte de los aceites testados ( 92,25%, porcentaje de inhibicin de la germinacin).
23433423|Fluctuating and extreme changes in temperature during seed germination may disrupt several physiological processes. Developing easy and reliable screening techniques to identify cultivar tolerance to extreme temperatures would benefit crop breeding programs in selecting cultivars for niche environments. An experiment was conducted to study the influence of temperature on 12 ornamental pepper cultivars using in vitro seed germination parameters. Time-series seed germination responses at a range of temperatures from 10 to 45C with 5C increments were carried out and number of germinated seed recorded every six hours. Seed germination rate (SGR) and maximum seed germination (MSG) were derived from temperature and germination timecourse data by fitting a three-parameter sigmoidal function. Quadratic and bilinear functions best described SGR- and MSG-temperature response functions, respectively. Cumulative temperature response indices (CTRI) of each cultivar, calculated as the sum of eight individual temperature response indices derived from temperature adaptability range (TAR = Tmax to Tmin), Tmin, Topt, and Tmax, for SGR and MSG, were used to classify cultivars for temperature tolerance. Cultivars were classified based on CTRI(heat) as heat tolerant ('Medusa' and 'Treasures Red'), heat intermediate ('Thai Hot', 'Variegata', and 'Red Missile'), and heat sensitive ('Purple Flash', 'Salsa Yellow', 'Black Pearl', 'Chilly Chili', 'Explosive Ember', 'Calico', and 'Sangria'). Similarly, cultivars were classified for cold tolerance as cold sensitive, moderately cold sensitive, moderately cold tolerant and cold tolerant based on CTRI(cold). Screening based on seed germination parameters is a simple and inexpensive method for determining vegetative temperature tolerance in pepper breeding programs.
23433424|Jute mallow (Corchorus olitorius L.) is an important African leafy vegetable in Kenya. It is highly nutritious and has commercial importance. Jute mallow seeds exhibit dormancy, reducing seed germination and adversely affecting field performance, but limited research has been done on appropriate dormancy breaking methods. In this study, efficacy of various dormancy breaking methods was tested. Treatments included mechanical scarification, soaking in boiling water for 5 min, leaching, soaking in water for 24 h at room temperature, applying wood ash paste on the seeds, soaking in 1% KNO3 for 1 min, and a control. Analysis of variance and Scheffe's multiple comparison procedure were used to identify methods that significantly differed in seed germination from the control. The most effective treatment was mechanical scarification, followed by leaching and lastly soaking in hot water. The rest of the methods did not significantly differ from the control. It is therefore recommended that farmers use mechanical scarification to break dormancy in jute mallow seeds before sowing.
23433425|Some nanoparticles, like carbon nanotubes, can significantly change plant cell morphology and physiology. The effects of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) on seed germination and seedling growth of salvia (Salvia macrosiphon Boiss.), pepper (Capsicum annuum L.), and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) were studied at four concentrations (10, 20, 30, and 40 mg L-1) plus a control (0 mg L-1) under laboratory and greenhouse conditions. In the laboratory, application of SWCNT increased germination percentage compared to the control. The highest germination percentages for salvia, pepper and tall fescue were 59.6%, 92.9% and 72.9%, respectively. The best effect on seedling length was observed at 10 mg L-1 of SWCNT for salvia and pepper, and at 40 mg L-1 for tall fescue. In the greenhouse, 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT led to the greatest seedling length. In laboratory and greenhouse studies, 10, 20, and 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT had the most pronounced effects on seedling fresh and dry weights compared to the control. For most measured parameters, the highest concentration of SWCNT was associated with negative effects. Overall, the best seed germination and seedling growth for salvia and tall fescue were achieved at 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT, and at 10 mg L-1 for pepper.
23433421|Measurement of various morphological traits of common bean seeds and grouping of landraces collected from Uttarakhand was carried out using image analysis. Projected area, perimeter, major diameter, minor diameter and color of seeds were measured using image analysis. Colors were expressed in terms of RGB channels (red, green and blue) and HSL channels (hue, saturation and lightness). Images of 50100 seeds per landrace in three replicates were captured. All image analysis was carried out using ImageJ, a Java based, multithreaded, freeware image processing and analysis program. Weight of 100 seeds was also taken into account. All data were subjected to principal component analysis, where 90.9% of the variability was expressed and used to group landraces into clusters. Clusters were further refined by hierarchical clustering using the Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean (UPGMA), and the resulting dendrogram with cophenetic correlation coefficient of 0.97 grouped 26 landraces into four clusters. Analysis of variance revealed that only the color feature significantly discriminates these landraces.
23433427|This study investigated the influence of static electromagnetic fields on speed of seed germination of mung beans (green beans), measured as the number of germinated seeds after 24 h of incubation. Prior to germination, seeds were exposed to different types of electromagnetic fields (EMF), namely Helmholtz, north pole and south pole, and different field strengths of 5, 10, 30 and 60 millitesla (mT) at exposures of 15, 30, 45 and 60 min. Results indicated that speed of germination improved following exposure to south pole EMF compared to the control and the other two field types. Upon increasing field strength up to 10 mT, speed of germination improved, but decreased at higher field strengths. Increasing exposure period up to 45 min also led to improved speed of germination. The highest speed of germination was observed using a south pole EMF at 10 mT and an exposure period of 45 min.
23433426|Seed biochemical composition (protein, sugar, starch and free amino acid content) and percentage germination in seed lots of three important conifer species, Abies pindrow, Cupressus torulosa and Picea smithiana from Garhwal Himalaya, revealed significant differences among these species. The highest protein (30.41 mg g-1), starch (72.96 mg g-1) and free amino acid (5.512 mg g-1) contents were found in seeds of A. pindrow, maximum sugar content (71.78 mg g-1) in C. torulosa, whereas the highest germination (72%) was observed in P. smithiana seeds from Tapovan provenance. On the other hand, the lowest protein (8.51 mg g-1) and free amino acid (0.62 mg g-1) contents were found in seeds of C. torulosa, and sugar (2.68 mg g-1) and starch (0.86 mg g-1) contents in P. smithiana and minimum germination (34%) was observed in A. pindrow. Correlation studies suggested that there were no significant associations between altitude and any of the tested seed biochemical constituents. Additionally, no significant correlations were established between and among the different biochemical constituents, as well as germination, for all three species. Thus, exploiting natural variation and using appropriate seed accessions as planting material could be promising tools for large scale multiplication of these potentially useful conifer species.
23433428|Vigor testing is an important determinant of seed quality, providing supplementary information to a germination test. The objective of this study was to compare a 2-day-old seedling test for corn seed vigor assessment using the seed vigor imaging system (SVIS) to other established vigor tests. Six maize (Zea mays L.) seed lots were evaluated for water content, germination and vigor using various tests including seedling emergence, accelerated aging, cold test and SVIS. The 2-day-old SVIS test produced similar results to the other vigor tests, including the 3-day-old SVIS seedling test. Analysis of vigor index data for 2-day-old seedlings showed similar results to the 3-day-old seedlings and the other tests, and was sensitive enough to provide additional seed quality information along with germination test values. Based on these findings, the 2-day-old maize seedling vigor test using SVIS was an improved method for vigor testing; it was more rapid and required fewer resources than other vigor tests for this important crop.
23433202|The objective of this study was to invigorate medium vigor hot pepper seed using matriconditioning. In one experiment, medium (80% germination, 2 year-old) vigor seeds of hot pepper were subjected to various invigoration treatments. In the subsequent experiment, medium and high (95% germination, 1 year-old) vigor hot pepper seeds were subjected to matriconditioning treatment at 15C for 6 days using sawdust (210  particle size) moistened with 100 M GA3. In the later experiment, the ratio of seed to sawdust to GA3 solution in the matriconditioning treatment was 1:2:5. Seed quality of matriconditioned medium vigor seed was enhanced over the untreated seed as indicated by a higher percent of germination, improved vigor index, and speed of germination. The total protein isolated from matriconditioned seed was 16% higher than that from untreated. Meanwhile, total protein isolated from high vigor seed was 10% higher than that from medium vigor seed. Qualitative changes in the profiles of total protein isolated from matriconditioned seeds occurred within the 76, 45, 38, 30 and 20 kDa polypeptides. Matriconditioning with sawdust and GA3 offers an alternative for improving seed quality of hot pepper seeds.
23433205|Various methods of seed scarification including concentrated sulphuric acid, alcohol; methanol, ethanol, iso-propanol, butanol and hot water (100C), were applied on seeds of Tamarindus indica L. and Prosopis africana Guill and Peri., to improve germination and assess seed vigor. The highest germination and germination energy (Germ. En.) for T. indica occurred following pre-treatment in methanol for 10 minutes (70% germination; 42, Germ. En.), while better response was obtained for P. africana following pretreatment in ethanol for 10 minutes (58% germination; 38, Germ. En.), and Conc. H2SO4, for 5 minutes (60% germination; 38, Germ. En.).
23433207|Seed size and seed weight measurements were made for Lotus species from throughout the world range of the genus and correlated with growth habit, life form, breeding system, plant habitat and geographic distribution.
23433200|Testing for purity and viability of native species with deep dormancy can be difficult. A protocol is provided for obtaining a working sample, determining percent germination, determining total viability and reporting results for native species not included in the Rules for Testing Seeds (AOSA, 2001).
23433203|Dimensions of seeds of twenty different agricultural crops were determined by caliper measurements. Individual seed weights were obtained, and mean seed volumes were determined by air-comparison pycnometer measurements for use in determining seed densities. Seed densities ranged from 1.002 g/cm3 for safflower, Carthamus tinctorious L., to 1.460 g/cm3 for milled rice, Oryza sativa L. Test weight (bulk density) measurements were also taken and moisture contents were determined by standard tests. Collectively, these data supplement the limited seed density data currently available in the literature for reference. The product of three orthogonal dimensions (length, width and thickness) was calculated for each kind of seed. A volume coefficient was determined as the ratio of the measured mean volume to the orthogonal-dimension product. The dimensionless volume coefficients, which ranged from 0.222 for oil-type sunflower, Helianthus annuus L., seeds to 0.588 for sweetclover, Melilotus officinalis Lam., seeds, are useful in estimating seed volume from seed dimensional data. With use of the appropriate volume coefficient, seed density can be estimated for a particular kind of seed from seed weight and dimensions, and the potential utility of this concept is demonstrated for single lots of three kinds of seed.
23433199|Testing of native species lends many problems to seed analysts across the United States. Besides purity and germination decisions, there is also confusion encountered when reporting seed testing results. The Rules for Testing Seeds of the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA, 2000) require a four-part purity analysis, incorporating Handbook 25, Uniform Classification of Weed and Crop Seeds (AOSA, 1999), for determining what is other crop or weed seed. This causes problems for the analyst and the consumer. A three-part purity analysis as used by International Seed Testing Association (ISTA, 1999) combines both crop and weed seeds under one classification 'other species', which alleviates many of the problems encountered in reporting seed test results. Combining other crop and weed contaminates into one classification, which is represented as a single percentage, other species, on the label would harmonize seed trade around the world.
23433201|Variation in laboratory test results on native warm season grasses is a current issue in the seed industry. To determine if these concerns were real, samples of big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman), sand bluestem (Andropogon halli Hack), little bluestem [Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash], Indiangrass [Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash], switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) and side oats grama [Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx.) Torr.] were tested in three seed testing laboratories. Samples for each species were split from one seed lot and mailed immediately to two of the three laboratories. All seed lots were tested for purity, germination, dormant seed, tetrazolium, PLSV (pure live seed based on viability) and PLST (pure live seed based on tetrazolium) for each species within a time period of three months. The two seed lots of sideoats grama showed differences in viable seed, tetrazolium, PLSV and PLST among laboratories. The three seed lots of Indiangrass showed little variation among the three laboratories, except seed lot two which had differences in the percentage germination + dormant of 5 + 84 and 84 + 6 % when tested by laboratories A & B, respectively. Big bluestem seed lots had the greatest differences between laboratories of all species tested. The three seed lots tested showed variation in purity, germination + dormant and tetrazolium, however the PLSV responses on seed lots one and three were nearly identical. Two sand bluestem seed lots showed similar PLS responses between laboratories, however seed lot one had different viable and tetrazolium responses. Switchgrass responses for viable, tetrazolium, PLSV, PLST and pure seed were very uniform across the three seed lots and laboratories. Germination plus dormant responses on switchgrass did show significant differences. It appears variation is real between laboratories for certain tests and species. Six sources of variation were identified: 1) Non-flowable nature of seed units, 2) Maturity of seed units, 3) Seed company sampling and mixing uniformity, 4) Laboratory subsampling and mixing uniformity, 5) Purity testing methods and individual technologist, and 6) Viability and dormancy breaking methods used. Continued study and cooperation between seed companies and testing laboratories is needed to work towards further identifying and developing methods which reduce variation in test results of warm season native grasses.
23433197|Varying analysis reports on the same lot of seed in the chaffy rangegrasses create problems in marketing for the seed owner. Wide ranges in the percentage of pure seed for these difficult native species are reported when results are compared between laboratories and between analyses within a laboratory. This paper explains the procedures for obtaining the working sample in Andropogon gerardii, (big bluestem), Andropogon halli, (sand bluestem), Schizachyrium scoparius (little bluestem) and Sorghastrum nutans (Indiangrass). These four species have similar spikelet characteristics and thus can be considered as one for determining the percent pure seed methodology. The basics of determining what is classified in the Rules for Testing Seeds as a seed unit, and what comprises pure seed and inert are explained and shown so that an analyst unfamiliar with these species can successfully perform an accurate analysis. The proper steps and mechanics of conducting the purity analysis, proper sampling of the seed lot and methods to subdivide the submitted sample down to the working sample size are explained. Information on easier and faster ways to separate the filled seed units from the empty seed units is included as an aid to the analyst. With an understanding of the proper interpretation of procedures in the Rules for Testing Seeds the purity testing differences can be greatly diminished for these four species.
23433206|Reversed-Phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (RP-HPLC) of cereal grain proteins has received much attention in recent years as a quick and efficient means of cultivar identification. A study of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) and annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) was undertaken to determine if RP-HPLC could be adapted to the identification of these species. Chromatograms of different cultivars of the two species studied all had distinct peak patterns, which correlated with each kind. Protein analysis of single seeds accurately differentiated annual ryegrass seeds from perennial ryegrass seeds. Mixtures of ryegrass seeds were analyzed and compared. A lower limit of 10% annual ryegrass in perennial ryegrass was detected by monitoring changes of area under the peaks of the chromatograms. RP-HPLC was shown to be a quick, repeatable and reliable method of ryegrass species identification for a general screening of seed lots.
23433204|Poor stand establishment of vegetables is attributable to low seed vigor and high susceptibility to stressful biotic and abiotic soil environments. The objective of this paper was to describe the effect of matriconditioning integrated with fungicide, GA and biological seed treatments on performance of vegetable crops, and their effectiveness on physiological and biochemical changes. Matriconditioning ameliorated the performance of eggplant and tomato seeds in 1999 field plantings in Brazil. Reduction in time to 50% (T50) emergence in conditioned seeds ranged from 4 days in eggplant to 2 days in tomato. Further improvement in emergence rate occurred by inclusion of gibberellin (GA4+7) during conditioning. Eggplant and tomato seed germination is influenced by endosperm cell layer digestion by GA-induced enzymes, which reduce mechanical restraints to the embryo. Pre-sowing seed conditioning in the presence of Bacillus subtilis proved effective in increasing sweet corn shoot dry weight in the field, but the addition of GA during matriconditioning in sweet corn had a negative effect. Fungicide added to brittle genotype sweet corn seeds with or without conditioning improved the final percentage emergence by 140 and 125% when compared to non-conditioned seeds. Osmoconditioning with PEG reduced the emergence rate and shoot weight production of both hybrids. Electrolyte leakage was greater in brittle sweet corn seeds carrying the bt2 gene compared to the sugary type, and in both cases, matriconditioning reduced the leakage. Matriconditioning with or without biological seed treatment may be a feasible strategy in improving stand and yield of sweet corn of lower seed quality under tropical conditions.
23433196|Native species are planted to re-vegetate former cropland, degraded pastures and rangelands, mined lands, "natural areas", roadside right-of-ways, and other land management areas with plants, usually perennials, to stabilize and provide desirable classes of vegetation. Acceptable stands need to be obtained in a reasonable time. Seed of native plants varies widely in seed quality factors including seed size, purity, dormancy, germination, and vigor. Seed quality tests required for sale of native seeds usually include germination, purity, and hard or dormant seeds. These laboratory tests do not always predict the capability of a seed lot to establish a stand under field conditions and do not give the seed user enough information to determine planting rate. The number of emerged seedlings per gram of seed in species specific stress tests may be a method of quantifying seed quality that is predictive of the seed's capability of producing a stand under field conditions. A standardized establishment test based on a unit of weight could be used to directly calculate planting rates.
23433198|Native species are primarily undomesticated crops that possess high levels of seed dormancy. Seed technologists use prechill, predry, scarification, and leaching techniques during germination testing to break this dormancy. The objective of this report is to show that, while germination is increased, each of these approaches create seed stress that reduces seed viability and germination, thereby providing growers and buyers of native species incorrect information concerning the plant performance ability of the seed lot. To more accurately portray the seed quality of native species, it is proposed that a TZ test be conducted prior to the germination test to identify the viability of the seed lot followed by a germination test to determine the present performance potential of the seed lot.
23433237|It has been long debated among seed analysts whether to define caryopses (dry, indehiscent one-seeded fruit, as in grasses) with some degree of endosperm development as pure seed or inert matter. This study was conducted to evaluate the germinability of perennial ryegrass seed (Lolium perenne L.) that contain caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea and compare them with seed that contain caryopses at least one-third the length of the palea. Random samples from forty seed lots representing two cultivars harvested in 1999, 2000, and 2001 were examined. Florets with caryopses having some degree of endosperm development were separated from each sample and germinated following the AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds. One hundred single florets with caryopses one-third the length of the palea or more from each sample were also germinated as control checks. The germination of seeds with caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea was 0.33%, compared to 92% for seeds with more than one-third the length of the palea. The results suggested that florets with caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea should not be classified as pure seed, but should be classified as inert matter. If the AOSA Rules were changed, it would result in uniformity between the AOSA and ISTA Rules regarding this standard. In addition, including such seed in the inert matter of a sample would result in increasing the germination percentage.
23433235|Two methods, ocular measurements using a stereomicroscope and computerized image analysis, were compared to assess the usefulness of image analysis as an efficient and precise method to measure variation in fruit traits, such as fruit length. Individual fruits from nine plant species differing in size, shape, and the existence of dispersal-related structures were measured repeatedly with both methods. Results showed significant between-method differences in fruit length. Image analysis tended to overestimate fruit length, although differences between the two methods were very small. Both stereomicroscope and image analysis discriminated fruits of different sizes, whatever their shape, and no bias due to size was found in any case. However, low (though significant) correlations were found for measurements of elongated fruits with a tailed pappus obtained by both methods. Overall, we conclude that image analysis represents a good method to accurately estimate variation in fruit traits. The advantages of using image analysis are (1) the high amount of fruit parameters obtained with one single measurement, (2) the minimization of human errors, (3) the reduction of time needed to obtain large data sets concerning fruit trait variability, and (4) the possibility to estimate variability in traits of fruits with complicated shapes.
23433234|The effects of two seedling abnormalities: 1) curved hypocotyl forming a loop (CH) and 2) primary root split from the tip (PRS) on several growth variables and timing of bloom onset of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) plants were investigated. During early ontogeny plants developed from abnormal seedlings were shorter and had shorter internodes than those developing from normal seedlings. Total biomass was lower in plants from CH seedlings only. Internode formation, leaf production and root length at the end of the assessment period were not affected by either abnormality. Neither of the abnormalities affected timing of bloom onset. Seedlings with CH and PRS abnormalities appear to be capable of recovery during growth and to bloom normally. Further studies are necessary to determine how different types of peanut seedling abnormalities affect the yield of the crop under field conditions.
23433238|Two types of seed surface, smooth and wrinkled, in the seed lot of Dialium guineense Willd, were nicked, immersed in hot water at 100 and 50 C, soaked in HNO3 and H2SO4 and mechanically scarified to improve germination under both light and dark conditions. Smooth seeds treated with H2SO4 (5 min) and in boiling water at 100 C (5 min) resulted in high germination, 74% and 70%, respectively. However, among the wrinkled seeds, only the boiling water treatment at 100 C (5 min) resulted in 50% germination. Generally, seeds tested under light conditions were higher in germination than those in the darkness.
23433236|The identification of new markers for germination capacity, activities and electrophoretic patterns of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoforms were evaluated in artificially aged common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seed samples with different germination levels. The physiological determinations were carried out on seeds imbibed under aerobic (moist paper) and anaerobic (submersion in water) conditions. Under both imbibition conditions wheat seeds with low germination capacity (AA2 and AA3 samples) showed reduced water uptake, respiration, ADH and LDH activities, and high electrical conductivity of seed leachate. The seed characterized by intermediate germination capacity (AA1 sample) showed respiration quotient values 1.5 and 1.7 times higher than control seeds, respectively, after 6 and 12 h imbibition under aerobic conditions. At 24 h imbibition under aerobic or anaerobic conditions, the isoform profiles of LDH were the same for all seed samples. Patterns of ADH isoforms extracted from seeds imbibed under aerobic conditions showed no difference among aged seed samples. Imbibition under anaerobic conditions showed two clearly visible additional bands in the ADH electrophoretic pattern of high germination capacity seeds. These additional bands were not observed in the aged seed samples. Anaerobic conditions seem to amplify differences in ADH isoform pattern, that might be used as an indicator of high germination capacity in wheat seeds.
23433239|Healthy grains of Triticum aestivum (L) cv. HD-2204 were imbibed in 10-6, 10-8 or 10-10 M aqueous solution of 28-homobrassinolide (HBR) for 4, 8 or 12 hours. Treated seeds were then transferred to petriplates, lined with water soaked filter paper, for germination. It was observed, after 96 hours, that percent germination and the activity of -amylase were enhanced irrespective of HBR concentration and soaking duration. The maximum values for germination and -amylase activity were recorded in the grains soaked in 10-10 M of HBR for 4 hours, which were 60% and about four times more than the water soaked control, respectively. It was closely followed by the next higher concentration (10-8 M) of the hormone.
23433264|Ramon, Brosimum alicastrum Sw. (Moraceae), is one of the tropical native trees of the Yucatn Peninsula in Mexico with agroforestry potential. Almost one millon ramon seeds are sown in forest nurseries as part of the activities of the National Reforestation Program (PRONARE) in the southeast region of Mexico, however, there are so many gaps of information about the performace of ramon seeds that its propagation has been limited. The objectives of this study were: (1) to evaluate the emergence rate and early seedling growth of a sample of ramon seeds, the product of free pollination, and (2) to explore the relationships among the seed weight and growth of seedlings 50 days after the sowing date. The variables were: (1) seed weight, (2) emergence rate [days], (3) seedling height; (4) main root length; (5) stem diameter; (6) number of leaves, (7) stem and leaf fresh weight, (8) root fresh weight, (9) stem and leaf dry weight, (10) root dry weight, (11) sturdiness quotient, and (12) shoot/root ratio. The results of 184 observations for each variable, were subjected to descriptive statistics analysis and simple correlation analysis. The resulting seedlings showed high morphological variability that was significantly associated with the fresh weight of the seeds. Seed sizing is recommended to maintain standards for ramon nursery production, which can be achieved by seed selection before sowing.
23433271|Two liquid nitrogen storage experiments were performed on 51 tree species. In experiment 1, seeds of 9 western tree species were placed in a liquid nitrogen tank for 3 time periods: 24 hours, 4 weeks, and 222 days. A corresponding control sample accompanied each treatment. For three species, Calocedrus decurrens, Pinus jefferyi, and Pinus contorta, the germination percent was not significantly different from the controls in any of the liquid nitrogen treatments. Exposure to 24 hours of liquid nitrogen did not affect the germination percent for any of the 9 species compared to their controls. Two species, Abies x shastensis and Picea engelmannii, exhibited a significant negative response to 4 weeks exposure to liquid nitrogen. Four species Abies amabilis, Abies concolor, Pinus monticola, and Pseudotsuga menziesii, exhibited a significant positive response to the 222-day exposure to liquid nitrogen when compared with Control D. Experiment 2 examined the germination response to liquid nitrogen storage after a 24 hour exposure for 42 tree species. The germination percent for nine of the 42 species, Acer rubra, Celtis occidentalis, Lonicera tartarica, Malus prunifolia, Physiocarpus opulifiolius, Pinus banksiana, Pinus clausa, Pinus nigra, and Pinus rigida, was significantly affected by 24 hours exposure to liquid nitrogen. Liquid nitrogen exposure had a negative affect on germination for 7 species and a positive effect for 2 species, Pinus nigra, and Pinus rigida. Only 8 species had enough data to calculate the correlation coefficient between moisture content and germination after exposure to liquid nitrogen. Correlations were significant for 4 species. Two species, Abies fraseri and Liriodendron tulipfera had negative correlations; two species, Pinus ponderosa and Pinus taeda had positive correlations.
23433262|Beechnuts are deeply dormant and require long cold prechilling before they germinate (one to three months). The methodology of pretreatment without medium at controlled moisture content applied before or after storage is the best method to take into account the dormancy and the heterogeneity within a seedlot (consequence of the genetic variability). It allows a very fast and grouped seedling emergence in the nursery. However, this long prechilling often damages older, less vigorous seedlots. The effect of chemical treatments on dormancy breaking, in particular growth regulators, as a means of shortening the treatment, has been studied. In previous experiments ethephon was shown to strongly stimulate percentage and germination rate of freshly collected beechnuts and to reduce the duration of the cold requirement by half in comparison with the classical pretreatment which needs 4 to 20 weeks. In the present study ethephon + short prechilling (3 weeks) strongly stimulates germination and seedling emergence of beechnuts stored for 3 years at either 7 or 9% moisture content. It avoids the viability loss of less-vigorous beech seeds during longer prechilling (5 weeks) and allows restoring the initial potential of the seedlots. No significant effect of storage moisture content is observed on seedling emergence when seeds are short-prechilled with ethephon. Thus, ethephon used in association with short cold treatment opens new prospects for dormancy breaking particularly in nurseries where short prechilling are preferred.
23433270|Water-based pretreatments are used to reduce the great variety in germination parameters of conifer seeds. However, treatment results of Norway spruce seeds are frequently unsatisfactory. The aim of this work was to study changes in the germination parameters of spruce seeds during the multiphased pretreatment chain and the impact of seed structures on these changes. Furthermore we studied the effect of storage on germination indices of pretreated spruce seeds. Seeds were extracted using the ordinary method by sprinkling water on the cones or restricting that amount of water sprinkled on the cones. Cleaned and dried seeds were stored at -3 C for three months prior to IDS-treatment. The changes in germination parameters were studied using germination tests and radiography. Seed structures were observed using SEM. In general germination parameters of seed lots increased during the pretreatment chain despite the opening of the seed coat, which occurred in fungi-infected seeds already at the extraction phase. The seed coat usually opened from the micropyle almost as far as the edge of the nucellar cap. The IDS-treatment succeeded well, and the germination parameters in the best fractions were 1328% better than in the seed batches prior to IDS-treatment. The germination indices remained nearly unchanged during one year's storage at -18 C. This indicates that the large nucellar cap typical for spruce seeds protected the megagametophyte and the embryo during pretreatment phases and short-term storage. The results also pointed out how pretreatments should be improved to get them better adapted for spruce seeds.
23433268|Previously published reports indicated that germination of some tree seeds might be controlled by an endogenous germination periodicity. It is most important to confirm whether this phenomenon is true because it could affect laboratory seed testing. This study was designed to test this hypothesis with white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss), jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm.) seeds. Results of monthly germination tests over 12 months under laboratory conditions showed there was no consistent trend of endogenous control of germination periodicity in all three species tested. Variations were found in both the rate and total germination of P. glauca and P. contorta but only in the rate of germination of P. banksiana seeds; however, these variations were reduced by an extended photoperiod (16 hours) and almost completely eliminated by a moist chilling treatment.
23433266|Germination of Dalbergia cochichinensis Pierre seeds at various stages of maturity (green, yellowish-brown and dark-brown fruits) showed the presence of primary dormancy. The germination capacity (30 C/20 C  16h/8h light/darkness) was highest for seeds from green fruits (after a germination period of 28 days), followed by yellowish-brown and dark-brown fruits. After four weeks of storage, germination of seeds from yellowish-brown fruit was highest, while mean germination rate was lowest from seeds of green fruits.
23433265|The recalcitrant behavior of cherrybark oak (Quercus pagoda Raf.) acorns was examined in terms of effects of moisture content on seed storage longevity and (short term) seed germination. Seed samples collected over two consecutive years were fully hydrated, then subjected to drying under ambient conditions of temperature and relative humidity on the lab bench and sampled regularly for moisture determination (gravimetric analysis) and germination (greenhouse conditions). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) was used to follow changes in macromolecular structure as moisture and viability were lost. Transmission spectra were collected on dry and rehydrated samples of separate embryonic axis and cotyledon tissue. Long-term storage longevity was highly dependent on initial acorn moisture content. Germination was also highly dependent on short-term moisture content, and severely declined when seed moisture dropped below 17% (fresh weight basis). FT-IR analyses revealed significant differences in moisture and lipid profiles between embryonic axis and cotyledon tissue during short term drying. A strong absorbance near 1740 cm-1 in cotyledon tissue indicated a high concentration of ester carbonyl groups (storage lipids). Membrane lipid structure exhibited reversible shifts between gel and liquid crystalline phases upon drying and rehydration in both axes and cotyledons (peak frequency and bandwidth near 2850 cm-1); however, reversibility declined as viability was lost. Irreversible changes in protein secondary structure, illustrated by shifts in the amide absorbance near 1650 cm-1, were the most sensitive indicators of viability loss.
23433259|A slightly invasive biopsy procedure allows quantitative analyses while using computerized tomography (CT) for biodensity of morphology, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of mobile proton distributions for comparative physiology. The supplemental procedures provide a useful comparison of dormant and germinated seed tissues to correlate form, function, and amount of metabolic substrate during treatments and storage trials. CT uses thin, contiguous, nondestructive slices of single-plane images to identify and quantify area and volume in any tissues within a 5000 Hounsfield unit biodensity range. The data are expressed in either histograms of densities or numerical mapping of the same density units. MRI provides presence and distributions of the hydrogen ion density for bulk water and/or fatty acid molecules. These mobile hydrogen ion distributions are visually displayed by both area and volume (pixel and voxel determinations). The biopsy is a sample extraction through a 1.0- to 3.0-mm bore penetrating the seed coat. Chemical analyses, for example, nitric oxide synthase (NOS), are quantitative for elemental and organic changes in challenged tissue. NOS is a widely reported free radical functioning as a messenger molecule for both inter- and intracellular significance. Although NOS is not definitely shown to affect plant cellular metabolism, it is an assay and can be controlled using both enhancements and inhibitors.
23433260|Difficulties in tree seed supply, dormancy and germination mean that the majority of seed researchers have ignored temperate and especially tropical tree species in their studies. Examples of results from several comparatively large systematic investigations of tree seed dormancy and survival are presented. Although the responses might be regarded as complex, they tend to tally with those for other plant propagules.
23433269|Total seed DNA of naturally and artificially aged [accelerated aging test (AAT)] longleaf pine seeds was quantified and analyzed. No seeds germinated after 240 hr of AAT. Seeds in the forest condition lost germination after 180 days. Seeds in 4 C conditions maintained 50% germination in three lots after 360 days. Storage at 30 C caused significant decline in germination after 360 days. For artificially aged seeds, DNA followed a low-high-low pattern coinciding respectively to the more viable and non-viable state with peaks at the intermediate aging regimes. Three lots showed increases in DNA after 90 days under forest conditions. Increases are probably due to hyperchromism. DNA was stable for seeds stored in 4 C and 30 C conditions. Gel electrophoresis revealed DNA fragmentation after 144 hours of AAT and 90 days of natural forest conditions. Incipient signs of fragmentation were observed in seeds stored at 30 C. No fragmentation was observed in DNA of seeds stored at 4 C. Big molecular weight fragments were possibly formed through the crosslinking of liquid peroxidation by-products and DNA for the following treatments: 240 or more hours of AAT, 4 C after 360 days, and all seeds at 30 C conditions. DNA fragmentation and crosslinking are presumed critical in non-germination of longleaf pine seeds. Regression analysis revealed differences in the rate of change of DNA in the two aging regimes. The use of AAT to examine aging mechanisms may not be reliable. The high seed moisture contents and the massive fungal infection in AAT are probable reasons.
23433267|The course of germination events includes seed dormancy, its release, the preparation for cell elongation in the axes, early germination and postgerminative extension of seedling organs. The specificity of horse chestnut seeds is manifested in (1) their recalcitrance, (2) dominance of coat-imposed dormancy over embryo dormancy, (3) embryo dormancy breakage by cytokinins only and (4) growth initiation by cell elongation in the embryo axes up to an axis length of 3.03.5 cm, confirmed by cell length measurements and the absence of both mitoses and thymidine kinase activity. In horse chestnut seeds, the hormonal regulation differs during the progress from deep dormancy to seedling growth. Embryo dormancy is maintained by abscisic acid and is broken by cytokinins. Cell preparation for elongation proceeds in nondormant seeds and includes an accumulation of endogenous osmotica accompanied by cell wall loosening. The latter occurs via activation of plasmalemma H+-ATPase and extrusion of protons into cell walls, thus acidifying them. Cell elongation after radicle emergence is stimulated by gibberellins. These conclusions are in agreement with the data on dynamics of endogenous abscisic acid and cytokinins.
23433263|Responses of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) seeds to freezing temperatures after incubation for 5 days at 15 C were examined for dry (7%), 15%, 20%, 25%, and 30% moisture content seeds using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) to identify critical moisture content at freezing. In a complementary experiment, seeds of the different initial moisture contents were incubated for 2 or 5 days, and subsequently exposed to -5 C or -20 C during 2 days or 5 days, and tested for germination (21 days, 20 C). In the DSC experiments, seeds with higher moisture content (20%, 25%, and 30%) had significantly wider endothermic peaks (-30.51 J/g, -40.36 J/g, and -47.02 J/g) than seeds with lower moisture contents (15% and dry seeds; -6.94 J/g and -0.65 J/g). Germination capacity ranged from 97% (control) to 58% (30% moisture content, 5 days of incubation, 5 days of freezing at -20 C). Germination capacity after freezing was significantly higher (81%-83%) for seeds with moisture contents from dry to 20%, compared to seeds with moisture contents between 25%-30% (68%-72%). Seeds exposed to -20 C for 2 and 5 days had significantly lower germination capacity (72%) than seeds exposed to -5 C (80%83%). In conclusion, freeze damage increased with the combination of high seed moisture and decreasing below 0 C temperatures, and increased freezing duration. The critical moisture content of Scots pine seeds is between 150%20% according to DSC and germination tests. To enable autumn seeding, artificial seed coating should restrict water uptake under this critical moisture content during winter and allow for water uptake and germination in spring.
24642244|It is presumed that longevity of cells under cryogenic condition can be almost infinitely extended. Pre-cryopreservation treatments such as vitrification and desiccation have a positive effect on the seed's survival efficiency and the length of the preservation period under cryogenic conditions. Seeds of two Apiaceae species, Ferula gummosa and the endangered Kelussia odoratissima, were collected from different habitats in Iran. The seed samples were subjected to PVS2 (plant vitrification solution 2), desiccation, and 30% glycerol before being transferred into liquid nitrogen (LN) or 196 C for 1 week, 1 month, 1 year and 26 months. After seed removal from LN, seeds were exposed to a heat shock (42 C), washed, and evaluated under laboratory as well as greenhouse (22  4 C) and field conditions. High level of recovery from LN, based on evaluating seed germination and seed and seedling attributes, under laboratory and greenhouse conditions, revealed the cryogenic tolerance of the species' seeds. Plants which originated from cryopreserved seeds grew normally under greenhouse conditions and did not show any abnormalities compared to control plants. Lack of significant differences among most of the pre-cryopreservation treatments and storage periods indicated the success of long-term seed preservation of the species in LN. Because of high seed germination and other characteristics, in addition to successful Kelussia odoratissima establishment in the field, it is concluded that seeds of Ferula gummosa and Kelussia odoratissima can be preserved under cryogenic conditions using various pre-cryopreservation treatments.
24642247|The objective of this study was to determine the effect of sand roasting and steaming pre-treatments on the physical properties of nutmeg nuts. Pre-treatments contribute to energy consumption of processing, and ultimately the operational costs of shelling. The effects of pre-shelling treatments are also important for equipment design. Moisture content of nutmeg nuts and kernels significantly varied between the roasting and steaming pre-treatments. Nut length, width, and thickness were significantly affected by pre-shelling treatments, while arithmetic mean diameter, geometric mean diameter, aspect ratio and sphericity index did not differ among pre-treatments. Unit weight, angle of repose and compressive strength of nutmeg seeds were significantly affected by pre-treatments. Pre-treatments resulted in significant differences in bulk and true densities, but not in the porosities, of the nuts. The compressive strength of roasted and steamed nutmeg nuts decreased compared to raw nuts, and the coefficient of friction was significantly affected by both pre-treatments and material surfaces.
24642245|Priming appears to reverse the detrimental effects of seed aging by modulating pre-germination metabolic activity prior to radicle emergence. However, the impact of these metabolic changes on seed reserve utilization is not clear. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of hydro-priming on reserve utilization of three differentially aged seed lots (100, 98 and 89% normal germination) of chickpea. Results showed that reserve utilization rate of the most aged seed lot significantly decreased, compared with other seed lots. The highest conversion efficiency was obtained for the high quality seed lot and decreased with decreasing seed lot quality. Increasing seed aging led to significant reduction in germination rate and seedling dry weight, mainly due to a poor reserve utilization rate. The highest seed reserve utilization rate was recorded for high vigor and primed seed lots. Increasing seed vigor due to hydro-priming also resulted in increasing germination rate and seedling dry weight. The highest improvement in germination rate due to hydro-priming was observed in poor vigor seed lots. Therefore, hydro-priming can improve reserve utilization of differentially aged seeds and thereby enhance their germination rate and seedling size.
24642242|Internal seed morphology, germination and vigor were examined in Portulaca grandiflora and P. oleracea seeds using image analysis techniques, to assess the role of seed free space on germination and seedling vigor. Five lots of P. grandiflora and two lots of P. oleracea seeds were first X-rayed, and the radiographs analyzed with Image Pro Plus to measure the free space between the embryo and endosperm of each seed. Seeds were then germinated either immediately or after exposure to saturated salt accelerated aging conditions for 48 and 72 h. Seedling vigor was assessed with the Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS). Free space between the embryo and endosperm in seeds of P. grandiflora ranged from 0 to 4.6% as a proportion of the whole seed area for all lots examined, whereas for seeds of P. oleracea, the range was from 0 to 10%. The relationship between seed free space and germination of P. grandiflora was variable; two of the five lots showed a reduction in the proportion of normal seedlings as the seed free space increased. While there appeared to be no direct relationship between increased free space and reduction in germination and vigor of P. grandiflora seeds, for P. oleracea seeds the results indicated a negative effect of extensive free space on germination and vigor.
24642243|Test result uniformity across laboratories is critical for seed labeling and marketing. One challenge in grass seed purity testing is separating light-weight inert matter such as empty and under-developed florets. A uniform blowing procedure, without measuring air velocity or using master calibration samples, was used to separate lightweight inert matter from pure seeds in orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata) and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) for decades by the Association of Official Seed Analysts. However, the method had limitations including length of time required for blower calibration, need for repeated calibrations, and stability of standard calibration samples (SCS) over years. Orchardgrass SCS variation had been suspected by laboratories, leading to inconsistent test results among laboratories. This study's objectives were to measure variability among SCS in different laboratories and introduce a new blowing procedure using uniform master calibration samples (MCS) to determine the optimum blowing points (OBP) of orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass, and use equivalent air velocity (EAV) values to reproduce the OBP over time. Studies were conducted to develop and test the validity of using MCS and EAV to achieve consistent separation of light inert matter within and across laboratories for orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass. Using MCS enabled laboratories to find comparable OBP in their blowers and reduced variability in light inert matter separation. Using EAV allowed monitoring the correct setting of blowers accurately and quickly (2 min). The new method proved to be accurate, repeatable, simple to use, and assured uniformity in separating orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass light inert matter across laboratories.
24642235|Proposals involving changes and additions to the Association of Official Seed Analysts Rules for Testing Seeds are submitted annually. The rule proposals are voted on by AOSA members and by registered members of the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST) at their joint annual meeting. Appropriate guidelines for developing proposals are outlined.
24642248|Members of the genus Ziziphus are reported to have problems of dormancy that hamper uniform seed germination under nursery conditions. This study was conducted to assess the most viable propagation technique for Ziziphus spina-christi seeds under nursery conditions of Debre Zeit Agricultural Research Center. Seed germination was tested following cold and hot water treatments, each with four levels, and sulfuric acid scarification with five levels. Three independent experiments for each treatment type were conducted, laid out in a completely randomized design with four replications. ANOVA of germination results from cold water treatments showed no significant treatment effect. A significantly higher germination percentage was obtained from seeds treated with hot water at 85 C and left to cool at room temperature of 25 C for 12 h. Additionally, a significantly higher germination percentage was recorded by scarifying seeds with sulfuric acid (98%) for 30 min and subsequent rinsing with cold water before sowing. Very low and very high immersion times in sulfuric acid of 5 and 120 min, respectively, led to a significant reduction in germination.
24642239|The maximum genetic diversity of horse gram (Macrotyloma uniflorum) is considered to be in the Old World tropics, especially in India and the Himalayas. Identification of horse gram genotypes is of prime importance to ensure quality seed by identifying off-types in samples. Characterization based on morphological characters usually varies with environments, and evaluation of these traits requires growing the plant to maturity prior to identification. Therefore, 22 genotypes of horse gram were identified based on seed response to different chemicals tests, namely standard phenol, modified phenol, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, as well as isozyme polymorphism. Although no single chemical test was able to distinguish all genotypes, genotypes could be differentiated using an identification key combining the different chemical tests. Most genotypes were identified successfully using electrophoresis of isozymes, especially using esterase isozyme profiles.
24642237|Future seed testing needs for seed analysts and researchers are outlined by the author, who has over 25 years of experience in seed testing and has been the ISTA (International Seed Testing Association) Rules Chair since 2000. The different requirements for analysts, researchers, standardized testing methods and seed associations from a manager's perspective are provided. Future prospects are discussed and conclusions drawn. A major highlighted concern is the lack of structured training opportunities and funding for seed technologists and analysts. The need to raise the profile of people involved in the whole cycle of breeding, growing, testing and certifying seed and grain is identified as an industry need.
24642246|Knowledge about genetic variation and association between various seed characters of pea (Pisum sativum) is of vital importance to breeding programs aiming to produce improved varieties with high seed and seedling vigor. Forty genotypes of pea were evaluated for various seed vigor traits to obtain estimates of variability, heritability and genetic advance, as well as correlations, for different seed and seedling characteristics. Adequate variability was present for 100-seed weight, speed of germination, shoot length, root length, fresh seedling weight and vigor indices. The highest genotypic coefficient of variation was observed in total seedling length and vigor indices. Heritability was high for 100-seed weight, vigor indices, total seedling length and fresh seedling weight. High genetic advance was observed for total seedling length, one of two vigor indices and seedling root length. Seedling shoot length had a positive and significant correlation with seedling fresh weight, and speed of germination was correlated to one vigor index, seedling length and fresh seedling weight. On the basis of this study, it is suggested that test weight, root length, shoot length, germination index and vigor indices be considered in selection programs for seedling improvement of pea.
24642236|The reclamation seed industry is new compared to the agronomic seed industry. Reclamation species have unique characteristics not typically shared by agronomic species. Reclamation species may have varying levels of dormancy and are not usually planted for harvest. In contrast, agronomic species must have uniform maturity at the time of harvest, and if the seed planted does not produce that desired uniformity, it could have a reduced value or even be worthless. The rules for testing seeds have been written with species planted for harvest in mind. This article illustrates the differences between agronomic species and reclamation species. It offers suggestions to better address the seed testing and regulatory needs of reclamation species.
24642240|Quantitative information about temperature effects on germination components in safflower is scarce. The objective of this study was to describe the trend of cumulative germination at different temperatures and determine cardinal temperatures and thermal time for safflower germination. Three safflower cultivars, Esfahan, Goldasht and Padideh, were germinated at temperatures ranging from 540 C, with 5 C intervals. Germination was recorded from 714 d in 812 h intervals. Fitting a logistic function on cumulative germination data at different temperatures showed that maximum germination was obtained at temperatures of 530 C for Esfahan, 520 C for Padideh, and 1015 C for Goldasht. Optimal germination temperature was 30 C for Esfahan and Padideh, and 25 C for Goldasht. In addition, beta, dent-like and segmented functions were used to describe the relationship between germination rate and temperature. Response of germination rate to temperature was best described by a segmented function due to higher R2 and lower root mean square of deviations between predicted and observed hours to germination, and lower standard error for estimating function parameters. Using this function, base, optimum and ceiling emergence temperatures were estimated to be 5, 32 and 48 C, respectively. The physiological hour requirements for germination were 23 h for Goldasht, 17.8 h for Esfahan and 16.4 h for Padideh, equivalent to daily thermal time of 19.7, 28.9 and 16.7 C d1, respectively.
24642238|Fruit quality, productivity and seed germination of teak (Tectona grandis), collected from 38 seed production areas (SPA), were evaluated in 20022004. Selected SPA were distributed over five seed zones: Nilambur, Wayanad, Parambikulam, Konni and Achencoil, of Kerala state in India. The study revealed significant variations in fruit yield (2.3453.52 kg ha1), diameter (1.421.88 cm), test weight (67.76118.93 g) and number of seeds per fruit (0.781.41), both within and among seed zones. There was no year-to-year variation in seed germination. Overall mean germination of seeds collected in 2002 and 2003 was low, 9.37 and 10.14%, respectively. Significant variation in seed germination was observed in 2002 among the 38 SPA, from 035%. Similarly, germination of seeds collected in 2003 ranged from 0.835.5%. Seeds collected from SPA within the Wayanad zone exhibited a high degree of dormancy. Among the five seed collection zones, seeds from SPA in Nilambur and Konni had higher germination compared to seeds from SPA in Parambikulam and Wayanad, in both years.
24642241|The aim of this work was to quantify the effect of the pulp of Juglans nigra fruit during the stratification process on seed quality and initial root growth of black walnut. The presence of the pulp caused a significant decrease in the germination velocity index, increasing 11.6 times the mean time of maximum germination. Seed germination capacity was significantly reduced, and the proportion of dead seeds was increased at least 17 times. Furthermore, the presence of the pulp increased nearly four times the proportion of abnormal seedlings, as well as affecting seedling roots. The main root of seedlings from fruits stratified in the presence of the pulp showed lower length and diameter with no secondary roots, compared to fruits from which the pulp was removed after harvest. Similar effects were observed in lettuce (Lactuca sativa) seeds germinating in different media with increasing concentrations of an aqueous extract of the pulp of black walnut fruits, demonstrating the presence of inhibitors or phytotoxic compounds in pulp tissue. Abscisic acid (ABA) and jasmonic acid were detected in the pulp tissue. Measured ABA concentrations were higher than those reported for Fraxinus seeds that produced similar seed deterioration symptoms reported in this experiment.
24642270|The seed coat of white clover seeds (Trifolium repens L.) is one of the factors affecting seed imbibition, causing irregular germination as well as abnormal seedlings and hardseededness. The aim of the present work was to determine the level of dormancy in white clover seeds in terms of hydration speed, moisture content, weight and germination, using seeds from two crop harvests in Argentina. White clover seeds, cv. 'NK Churrinche', with physical dormancy had lower moisture content, lower weight and greater viability than non-dormant seeds. The moisture content of dormant seeds suggested better storability than non-dormant seeds. Water permeability varied among seeds, reflecting deep levels of physical dormancy, which in turn influenced seed physiological quality.
24642275|The aim of this work was to develop a specific X-ray machine to be used not only for research, but also for routine seed analysis. The machine consisted of an X-ray tube support column, tube stand, tube case, X-ray tube with a beryllium window, collimator, power supply, and grid cabinet. The machine had a 050 KVp and 0300 mA range and utilized 18  22 cm conventionally developed radiographic plates. The resulting X-ray images could be scanned and/or photographed to generate digital files. Diagramming radiographic patterns for each species could be a very helpful tool for the interpretation of seed quality tests. The machine, called RUTAX, used a non-destructive method and had potential as a useful tool for evaluating a wide variety of seed and fruit species with different structural characteristics, allowing frequent and fast monitoring with a high level of diagnostic reliability.
24642274|This work aimed to determine the optimal temperature and influence of photoperiod on the germination process of Geoffroea decorticans seeds, a multiple-use woody species. We used seeds from individual plants located in Ro Primero, Crdoba. The seeds were sown on paper towels in groups of 25, placed in germination chambers and tested under nine temperature regimes: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, alternating 30/20 and alternating 35/15 C  2 C, and two light conditions, a 12/12 h (light/dark) photoperiod and constant darkness. The effects of a 12/12 h photoperiod were studied on germination, time to 50% germination, germination velocity and light-related germination, while only percentage germination at the end of the test was evaluated under constant darkness. Germination of G. decorticans was higher than 50% within the 2040 C temperature range and at the alternating temperatures tested. The highest percentage germination (95%) was recorded at 30/20 C, but was not significantly different from those occurring at 25 (92%), 30 (90%), 35 (85%), or 35/15 C (83%). Therefore, seeds of G. decorticans could germinate within a wide range of temperatures and were light-neutral, although the highest germination occurred under alternating light conditions. El objetivo de este trabajo fue determinar la temperatura ptima y la influencia del fotoperodo sobre el proceso germinativo de Geoffroea decorticans, (especie leosa de mltiples usos. Se utilizaron semillas de individuos localizados en Ro Primero, Crdoba. Grupos de 25 semillas se sembraron sobre toallas de papel y se colocaron en cmaras de germinacin. Se ensayaron 9 regmenes de temperaturas: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 30/20 y 35/15 C  2 C y dos condiciones de luz: fotoperodo de 12/12 h, (luz/oscuridad) y oscuridad continua. Considerando el fotoperodo, se analizaron los parmetros: germinacin media, velocidad de germinacin, ndice de velocidad de germinacin y germinacin relativa a la luz. El parmetro evaluado en condiciones de oscuridad continua fue el porcentaje de semillas germinadas al finalizar el ensayo. G. decorticans registr porcentajes de germinacin superiores al 50% en el rango de 20 a 40 C  2 C y en las temperaturas alternas ensayadas. El mximo porcentaje (95%) se registr a 30/20 C  2 C, no existiendo diferencias significativas con las temperaturas 25 C (92%), 30 C (90%), 35 C y 35/15 C (83%)  2 C. Las semillas de G. decorticans germinan en un amplio rango de temperaturas, son indiferentes a la luz, pero los mayores porcentajes de germinacin se obtienen en alternancia lumnica.
24642268|The objective of this experiment was to assess the effects of exogenous ascorbic acid application on the vigor of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) seeds subjected to aging and salinity. Seeds were aged for 72 h at 45 C and 99% RH, in the dark, then germinated in paper imbibed with either deionized water (T2), 100 mM NaCl (T3), 0.85 mM ascorbic acid (T4), or 100 mM NaCl + 0.85 mM ascorbic acid (T5), in addition to a control treatment (T1; non-aged seeds with deionized water). T2 and T3 affected germination stages, reducing dry mass, membrane integrity and seed germination. T4 mitigated the effects of artificial aging on germination and vigor, resulting in a higher emergence speed index (ESI) and water content, as well as lower mean emergence time (MET) of seedlings. T5 reduced fresh mass, increased seed electrical conductivity and slowed germination, with lower ESI and higher MET. Results suggested that ascorbic acid application could mitigate the effects caused by aging, but was not able to attenuate the toxic effects of NaCl on aged cowpea seeds.
24642267|Seed priming has been successfully used to improve germination and seedling establishment of many vegetables and field crops. Laboratory tests and field experiments were conducted in 2011 and 2012 at the Urmia Research Station, West Azerbaijan, Iran, to evaluate the effects of hydro-priming, halo-priming with 2% KNO3, and osmo-priming with ZnSO4 (200 mM Zn) and KH2PO4 (50 mM P) on seedling vigor and field emergence of sunflower. Priming significantly improved seed germination, germination rate, seed vigor index, shoot, root and seedling dry weights, and reduced mean germination time and electrical conductivity of seed leachates, compared to the unprimed control. Hydro-priming was more effective in improving all studied parameters compared to priming with chemical salts. Effects of priming with ZnSO4 on germination traits, seed vigor and seedling dry weight were more pronounced than the effects of other halo-priming and osmo-priming treatments. Priming improved seedling emergence, emergence rate and emergence time. Priming with water and KH2PO4 resulted in higher seedling emergence and establishment in the field, compared to the control and priming with KNO3 or ZnSO4. Mean seedling emergence time was also reduced by priming, particularly hydro-priming. Hydro-priming is therefore a simple, low cost technique for improving seed germination and seedling emergence of sunflower.
24642271|Weathering damage in soybean (Glycine max) seeds wrinkles the cotyledons, cracks the seed coat and causes tissue death. The objective of this study was to assess weathering damage and relate damage severity with seedling symptoms and loss of viability, and show modifications of seed tissues with weathering damage using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Two soybeans seeds lots, cv. 'TMG115-RR', were subjected to X-ray and tetrazolium (TZ) testing and seedling assessment, to assess weathering damage. Moreover, seeds with or without weathering damage were inspected using SEM. X-ray image analysis as well as TZ and seedling assessment tests confirmed that weathering damage interfered with seed physiological potential, varying according to the extent and location of the damage. SEM images showed that the seed coat hourglass cells occurred near the hilum region and gradually decreased until they disappeared opposite to the hilum region, a region where typical wrinkles caused by weathering damage are observed. On the cotyledons, the cells in damaged seeds appeared lengthened and compressed, probably accounting for cell death in the damaged region. Danos por umidade em sementes de soja (Glycine max) causam enrugamento nos cotildones, rachaduras no tegumento e pode causar a morte dos tecidos das sementes. O objetivo deste estudo foi avaliar danos por umidade em sementes de soja e relacionar a severidade do dano com sintomas em plntulas e perda de viabilidade, alm de avaliar as modificaes nos tecidos das sementes danificadas por meio da microscopia eletrnica de varredura (SEM). Dois lotes de sementes de soja, cultivar TMG115-RR, foram submetidos ao teste de raios X e de tetrazlio ou  avaliao de plntulas para avaliar os danos por umidade. Alm disso, sementes com e sem danos por umidade foram submetidas ao SEM. Os resultados mostraram que a anlise de imagens por meio de raios X, o teste de tetrazlio e a avaliao de plntulas confirmaram que o dano por umidade interfere no potencial fisiolgico das sementes dependendo da extenso e localizao destes. Por meio das imagens de microscopia eletrnica de varredura foi verificada a presena de "clulas em forma de ampulheta" na regio prxima ao hilo a qual decresce at o total desaparecimento na regio oposta ao hilo, regio onde usualmente so observados sintomas tpicos de enrugamento causados pelos danos por umidade. Nos cotildones, as clulas de sementes danificadas se apresentam alongadas e comprimidas, o que provavelmente  a razo da morte celular na regio danificada.
24642273|Oregon is well known for seed production of the amenity grasses Poa pratensis (Kentucky bluegrass) and P. trivialis (rough bluegrass). However, little is known about weed seed and ergot contamination of certified Oregon Poa spp. seed. This study was conducted to assess the diversity and frequency of occurrence of weed seeds and sclerotia of the fungus Claviceps purpurea (ergot) in certified seed lots of P. pratensis and P. trivialis based on purity analysis at the Oregon State University Seed Laboratory during 19861995 and 20022012. For P. pratensis, 155 different weed seed contaminants were detected, with 113 identified to species, 39 to genus and 3 to family. For P. trivialis, 26 contaminants were identified to species and 14 to genus. Between 20022012, the percentage of seed lots per year with no weed contaminants ranged from 4875% and 4368% for P. pratensis and P. trivialis, respectively, indicating consistent high quality standards for Oregon certified seed. Between 19852012, the number of new contaminants in P. pratensis increased at the rate of three per year. In P. trivialis, only one new contaminant species was detected after 2007. The percentage of P. pratensis or P. trivialis seed lots with ergot ranged from 2261%, and 010% respectively, depending on year. This study documented a wide and increasing diversity of weed seed contaminants, especially in P. pratensis, and revealed that although the level of ergot from year to year is variable, ergot remains a persistent problem in P. pratensis seed production fields and as a post-harvest seed contaminant.
24642272|Iso-osmotic potentials using PEG-6000 and NaCl solutions (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 bar) were used for germination of Thymus fedtschenkoi, T. migricus and T. daenensis. At iso-osmotic potentials, seeds in saline solutions germinated at a higher rate compared to those incubated in PEG-6000 solutions. Germination significantly decreased at 4 bar and dropped to zero at 10 bar under drought, while under salinity it decreased at 8 bar but did not fall to zero even at 12 bar. Under both salinity and drought, effects on germination and seedling development parameters were the same at low stress levels (2 bar), but differed at higher stress levels. When exposed to salinity stress, germination of T. migricus was lower than that of T. daenensis and T. fedtschenkoi. Root branching decreased due to both drought and salinity, and the maximum number of secondary roots was observed in T. daenensis seedlings, while the lowest was observed in T. fedtschenkoi seedlings. Early seedling growth was more sensitive to drought and salinity than seed germination. Germination and early growth of thyme seedlings was more sensitive to drought than salinity. Differences in response of seeds and seedlings to drought and salinity at the same osmotic potential was probably due to differences in molecular size of PEG and NaCl, resulting in different rates of entrance of these molecules into cells, consequently affecting water uptake of cells.
24642269|Hyacinth bean is a legume used as a vegetable, forage and ornamental plant. Many accessions do not flower during their juvenile period in Byron, Georgia. Other accessions produce few seeds when regenerated in the field. This study was conducted to develop a hydroponic cloning and nutrient film technique (NFT) for seed regeneration from juvenile, freeze-sensitive hyacinth bean accessions and a low seed-producing accession. Twenty-five juvenile and freeze-sensitive accessions were planted at Byron, GA during 2011. Four mature stem cuttings per accession with 3 true leaves were placed in a hydroponic cloning system inside a greenhouse during the fall of 2011. Most cuttings developed healthy root systems after 12 weeks. Two to 4 well-developed stem cuttings per accession were transplanted to potting soil and placed in a greenhouse. Fourteen 30-d-old seedlings from a low seed-producing accession grown in potting soil were placed in an NFT system inside a high tunnel during the first week of May, 2011. Seed numbers ranging from 20 to 1,127 per accession were regenerated from clones, while 1,629 seeds were regenerated from plants growing in the NFT system. The coefficient of variation for seed number was 59%, indicating fairly low variation. Cluster analysis grouped most accessions into well-defined phenotypes based on plant size. Principal component analysis indicated that the first principal component was most correlated with branching and seed yield. Hydroponic cloning and NFT were successful in rescuing juvenile and freeze-sensitive accessions for seed regeneration and consequent evaluation of phenotypic variation.
23433355|Seeds of three varieties of cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata), cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis), canola (Brassica napus), sugar beet (Beta vulgaris), pak-choi (Brassica compestris) and radish (Raphanus sativus) were investigated for their germination percentage, germination rate (1/t50, where t50 is the time to 50% of germination), root and shoot lengths, Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations (ions lost during soaking for 36 h in different NaCl solutions) in four salinity treatments including 0.0 (control), 4.7, 9.4 and 14.1 dS m-1 NaCl. Linear regression revealed a significant negative relationship between salinity and germination percentage, germination rate, root length, shoot length and Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations. There was a positive relationship between salinity and Na+ concentrations. Multiple regression equations were developed to predict the relationship between chemical factors (ions leached from seeds due to salinity) and biological parameters (germination percentage, germination rate and root and shoot lengths affected by salt stress). These equations show that Na+ had a significant negative relationship with germination rate, but a significant positive relationship was observed between Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations and germination rate. It was shown that root length had a significant negative relationship with Na+, but a significant positive relationship existed with Ca2+. Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ had a significant negative relationship with shoot length. A non-significant relationship was found between Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations with germination percentage. These equations provide a simple and rapid method based on chemical analysis and germination tests for determining salt tolerance in different vegetables.
23433359|Germination properties, including germination rate, germination percentage and cardinal temperatures, of eight wild medicinal species from Iran were studied. The seeds of the eight medicinal plants were exposed to germination temperature treatments ranging from of 5 to 35 C consisting of seven constant and three alternating temperature regimes. A linear model was applied to describe the germination rate-temperature relationship. The species studied using constant germination temperatures showed the highest germination percentages in the range of 2030 C for Nepeta binaludensis and Nepeta crassifolia, 1520 C for Zataria multiflora, 2025 C for Nepeta glomerulosa, 2530 C for Dysphania botrys and 1530 C for Thymus kotschyanus, Rubia tinctorum and Achillea millefolium ssp. elburensis. The highest germination percentage and germination rate were observed at alternating temperatures of 2030 C for Nepeta binaludensis, 1020 C for Zataria multiflora, Thymus kotschyanus, Nepeta glomerulosa and Nepeta crassifolia, and, 1020, 2030 C, for Dysphania botrys. The various species showed clear differences in the temperature requirements of their seed for germination. Both germination percentage and rate were higher at constant than alternating temperatures. The highest base (Tb C) and optimum temperatures (To C) were observed in Dysphania botrys, while the highest critical temperature (Tc C) was recorded for Rubia tinctorum. There was a positive linear relation between temperature at which the highest germination percentage was obtained at To, but this relationship was negative for Tb.
23433352|The effect of harvesting and processing operations on the quality of hybrid maize seeds was studied to identify those operations that cause the greatest damage. Three single-cross maize hybrids, 'Ulla', 'Benicia' and 'Dea', differing in their susceptibility to mechanical damage, were subjected to manual and mechanical processing during harvesting to grading. Following processing, seeds were stored at -20 C and at ambient temperate room conditions. Standard germination, accelerated aging and two cold tests were performed every four months to assess seed quality over a 15-month storage period. The post-shelling operations of cleaning and grading caused the greatest damage. More than all other operations combined, grading caused the most damage to round seeds, irrespective of the degree of susceptibility. Mechanical damage affected seed storability more than viability and vigor. Flat and large seeds were more tolerant to mechanical damage than round and medium-sized seeds. Seed shape influenced susceptibility to mechanical damage much more than seed size.
23433357|Fruit and seed development in Acer caesium is described for trees growing in montane, temperate forests of the western Himalayas of India. Fruits of A. caesium were harvested during 1997 and 1998 at biweekly intervals after anthesis until maturity. Changes in physical characteristics of samaras and the percent seed germination during developmental stages were recorded. Seeds matured around 210225 days after anthesis (DAA). With maturation, pericarps and testae turned dark brown in color. This stage coincides with minimum fruit and seed moisture content and maximum germination percentage. Moisture content in both intact samaras and seed (hulled) showed an abrupt decline during the final phase of maturation and stabilized around 1214% in mature seed. Dry weight accumulation ceased before seed attained physiological maturity. The study revealed that A. caesium seeds underwent a tri-phasic development, that is, growth, reserve accumulation and desiccation.
23433360|Successful propagation of Selinum wallichianum, a high value medicinal plant of the Himalaya, requires development of methods to overcome its seed dormancy. While seeds collected from alpine and subalpine provenances spanning the range of this species were found to be viable, only 46.7% and 24.5%, respectively, of the seeds germinated without any pre-sowing treatment. Chilling (4 C) for 14 days improved the germination percentage of seed from both provenances compared to the control. Also, 100 ppm KNO3 pre-treatment for alpine and 500 ppm for subalpine seeds improved the percent germination significantly over the control. Higher concentrations of KNO3 (> 500 ppm), however, reduced the percent germination of seeds from both provenances. Use of 100 ppm GA3 improved the germination percentage and lowered the mean germination time (MGT) compared to the control for seeds from both provenances. Improved germination responses to chilling treatments corresponds well with natural conditions where S. wallichianum seeds are covered with snow during the winter. Response to chilling and GA3 treatment implies Intermediate Complex Morpho-Physiological Dormancy (MPD) of S. wallichianum seeds.
23433356|The ability to predict the number of days for seeds of four Hypericum species (H. perforatum, H. bupleuroides, H. nummularioides and H. pruinatum) to germinate was investigated by using mathematical models based on temperature. A model, D = a - (b  T) + (c  T2), was used that previously predicted the time to emergence in relation to temperature for some vegetable crops and was unchanged when applied to the Hypericum spp. In addition to determining optimum seed germination temperature (T0 = -b/2  c) in the tested species, days to germination was calculated by using coefficients obtained from regression models. Considering the marked interest by many researchers in modeling plant growth and development in recent years, the equations produced in this study may be helpful in this field. Models that predict days to germination or optimum temperatures could be used to adjust for an optimal time for sowing seed in different regions and thereby utilizing the growing season of these regions more productively.
23433353|An enzyme that rapidly catalyzed the hydrolysis of denatured DNA was partially purified from germinated gram (Cicer arietinum) seeds and its molecular weight was found to be 45,000. The nuclease was studied for its endonucleolytic activity in comparison to single-strand-specific nuclease from germinated pea (Pisum sativum) seeds. As with pea seed nuclease, the gram seed nuclease exhibited an affinity towards single-stranded DNA and showed a higher affinity towards depurinated DNA. The temperature optima of both enzymes fall in the same range (40 C for heat denatured DNA and 60 C for native DNA). The nucleases from gram and pea seedlings degraded native DNA in a similar fashion at elevated temperature and exhibited maximum activity at pH 7.5. Both enzymes were affected by the same chemical agents among which Mg2+ and Ca2+ had stimulatory effects. However, Mn2+ and EDTA had no effect, and Zn2+ and 8-hydroxyquinoline were inhibitory on both nucleases. Under high salt concentration, enzymatic activity of both enzymes was inhibited. Native, denatured, alkylated, depurinated and crosslinked DNA were also tested as substrates for nuclease activity with pancreatic DNAase I, which degraded all DNA substrates at approximately equal rates. The degradation of native DNA by gram and pea seed nucleases was only 4 and 5%, respectively, in comparison with that of denatured, alkylated, or depurinated DNA; whereas, crosslinked DNA was not degraded by either gram or pea seed nucleases. These data suggest that the enzyme from germinated gram seeds is a single-strand-specific deoxyribonuclease.
23433358|Small broomrape (Orobanche minor) is an obligate parasitic weed that attacks the roots of a wide range of broadleaf crops, resulting in varying degrees of economic loss. Red clover (Trifolium pratense) is one of the most common host plants that can suffer considerable yield reduction, particularly with heavy Orobanche infestation. The objective of this study was to develop a laboratory test to detect the presence of Orobanche seed in red clover. The test was based on differences in seed size and density between red clover and broomrape. The recommended procedure for detection of Orobanche in red clover includes two main steps: 1) separation of Orobanche seeds from red clover by screening samples through a round-hole perforation sieve with a hole diameter of 1.04 mm using a seed shaker; and 2) visual examination of the screened portion using a microscope with a 40X magnification to detect the presence of Orobanche seed. Knowledge of seed color, shape, and texture of Orobanche is critical for proper identification. The test can detect the presence of one Orobanche seed in 453 g (1 seed/lb) red clover seed, which is the recommended working sample size for the test.
23433354|Crop production faces stringent problems due to increased salinity, but salt tolerance can be induced effectively by pre-sowing seed treatments. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of pre-sowing seed treatments on germination and vigor of wheat (Triticum aestivum) cv. 'MH-97' under saline and non-saline conditions. Seeds were subjected to hydropriming, osmoconditioning, halopriming with CaCl2.2H2O (50 mol m-3) and NaCl (50 mol m-3), chilling (-19 C) or hardening (one cycle) for 12 h. All of the invigoration techniques except osmoconditioning and hardening were effective in alleviating adverse effects of salt stress on wheat at germination. Hydropriming proved to be the most effective followed by halopriming with CaCl2.2H2O, NaCl and chilling treatments as expressed by the final germination percentage, root and shoot dry weight, root and shoot length and root-shoot ratio. The concentration of Na+ and K+ increased more in seedlings sown under saline conditions than under non-saline conditions. The Na+ concentration of seedlings was significantly increased by NaCl priming while other treatments had no effect on Na+ or K+ concentration. This study indicated that wheat grown under saline conditions can be improved by pre-sowing seed treatments.
23433638|Eastern gamagrass [Tripsacum dactyloides (L.) L.] is a warm-season, perennial grass native to large areas across North America. Plantings are commonly established from seed, but seed quality is a barrier to establishment. The objective here is to review the standard laboratory purity method and to outline a germination protocol that can be used for routine assessment of eastern gamagrass seed lots for planting purposes. A survey of 21 laboratories determined that at least 9 germination procedures are currently in use. A comparison of a single seed lot as reported by 10 laboratories was used to determine variation in test results. Additional seed lots were germinated on substrates with and without KNO3 and subjected to prechilling and presoaking treatments. Based on the results presented here, a preliminary germination method using between blotters, blotter-lined Petri dishes or rolled towels as the substrate, and a germination temperature regime of alternating 20/30C, with count dates of 7 and 14 d is recommended for routine laboratory analysis.
23433639|Seed osmopriming can be a sustainable method of improving crop establishment, uniform emergence and field growth. Laboratory and greenhouse studies were carried out during the 2010 cropping season in Sokoto, Nigeria, to study the effect of seed osmopriming duration on the germination, emergence and growth of sorghum seeds. Treatments consisted of 3 osmopriming durations (imbibing seeds in 1% KNO3 salt solutions for 6, 8 and 10 h), a hydropriming treatment (imbibition in water for 10 h) and an unprimed control. Treatments were laid out in a completely randomized design replicated 4 times. Osmopriming and hydropriming resulted in higher seed germination, emergence, plant height and dry matter accumulation compared to the unprimed control. Both hydropriming and osmopriming of sorghum seed can be used for improved field performance. However, osmopriming in KNO3 salt solutions for at least 6 h resulted in better field establishment and seedling growth than hydropriming.
23433640|Canebrakes [stands of Arundinaria gigantea (Walter) Muhl.] provide important wildlife habitat, promote stream bank stabilization and improve water quality, making them ideal focal points for riparian restoration projects. However, availability of viable seeds for seedling production is limited due to infrequent flowering events, naturally low seed viability, the recalcitrant nature of seeds and failure of flowering stands to produce seeds. The purpose of this study was to examine seed storage methods that can extend stored seed viability and germination for future use in rivercane seedling production for restoration programs. To evaluate effect of container type and storage temperature, seed germination percentages were compared for two storage container types, paper and plastic bag, at three storage temperatures, -5, 5, and 21 C, over 5 months. The highest germination was for seeds stored at sub-zero temperatures (-5 C) in plastic bags. Rivercane seed is recalcitrant in nature, requiring storage methods that assure moisture retention and low temperatures that minimize cellular metabolic processes.
23433642|Okra [Abelmoschus esculentus (L.) Moench] is one of the most important vegetable crops grown extensively throughout India during the summer and rainy seasons. Apical bud pinching, or nipping, is a well-known practice for breaking apical dominance to encourage lateral growth, thereby increasing the potential fruiting area. Growth, productivity, and seed quality are increased with pinching at early compared to later stages of growth, providing sufficient time for regeneration of vegetative parts, enhancing production of branches, and also resulting in increased photosynthetic activity, accumulation of more photosynthates, and ultimately resulting in increased seed size and yield. In this paper, the effects of apical pinching on growth, yield and quality of okra are reviewed, with a view to promoting this practice in commercial production, as well as presenting information about associated field management practices and special treatments for obtaining higher okra yields.
23433637|Maintaining the genetic integrity and performance of released cultivars over multiple generations of seed increase continues to be of concern in cross-pollinating grasses. It is not an uncommon practice when seed supplies are low or foundation seed is not available to designate registered seed as foundation seed (re-foundationed), which adds one or more certified generations to the cultivar. Russian wildrye [Psathyrostachys juncea (Fisch.) Nevski] is a cross-pollinating, cool-season, bunchgrass native to steppe and semidesert regions of Eurasia. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was used to test the effect of additional generations on the molecular genetic diversity and linkage disequilibrium within and among original foundation seed (1986), re-foundationed seed from registered seed (1992) and certified seed (2002) of the cultivar 'Bozoisky-Select', along with cultivars 'Vinall' and 'Mankota'. Average similarity coefficients within generations fell from 0.6031 in original foundation seed to 0.5920 in certified seed four generations later, while the average similarity coefficient between generations fell from 0.6031 to 0.5826, respectively. Principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) grouped individuals of Vinall and Mankota into their respective groups, and grouped all Bozoisky-Select individuals into one indivisible group. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) trended toward a loss of LD over generations of seed production, but the change was not significant. Although there were slight decreases in genetic similarity over four generations of seed production, the changes were not enough to cause subdivisions of Bozoisky-Select seed using PCoA. The re-foundation of seed from registered seed in 1992 did not result in significantly decreased LD in the 2002 certified Bozoisky-Select seed.
23433634|A laboratory experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of halo priming on germination, seedling growth and lipid peroxidation of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seeds under salinity stress. The experimental design was a two-factor factorial arranged in a completely randomized design, with six replications. The first factor was salinity level (0 and 100 mmol NaCl) and the second was priming treatment (1, 2 and 3% NaCl and KNO3 solutions). Under salinity stress, seed priming significantly improved germination and seedling fresh weight and decreased mean germination time and lipid peroxidation, compared to the control. Seed priming with 1 and 2% solutions of KNO3 significantly improved germination, seedling growth, and peroxidase activity, and decreased lipid peroxidation compared to NaCl priming. Potassium nitrate priming treatments are simple, cheap and do not involve expensive chemicals and sophisticated equipment.
23433636|Group testing methods are used for classifying and estimating a proportion when the response is binary (0 or 1) and the proportion to be estimated is lower than 10%. Group testing techniques are becoming increasingly popular due to their considerable savings in time and money compared to more traditional testing methods. Until now, group testing formulas derived for determining sample size when classifying or estimating a proportion have been based on the assumption of an infinite population. However, in many cases, the population is finite and appropriate formulas are needed to determine sample size. For this reason, a new formula is proposed to determine the required sample size for estimating the proportion (p) that ensures narrow confidence intervals (CI) in finite populations with imperfect diagnostic tests (tests whose sensitivity and specificity are less than 100%). With this formula there is a  probability that the (1-)100% confidence interval will be narrower than a specified value, . The proposed formula determines the number of groups (gF) needed to estimate the proportion of interest and ensures with high probability that the observed CI will be narrower than . We show how to use the proposed formula and provide tables relevant for practical applications. Finally, we present an R program that may be used to determine sample size for finite group testing problems.
23433641|A recent Brazilian law (IN no. 1 of February, 2010) regulated the use of agrochemicals for crops classified as minor crops, i.e., small-scale crops that do not generate enough economic returns to justify investments in developing specialized pest control products by the chemical industry. The law was a step forward in the use and control of agrochemicals for species that previously had no approved pesticides, and for which producers often used either inappropriate or contraband products to satisfy pesticide needs. Unfortunately, this inappropriate use is still the case regarding seed treatment, and it negatively impacts seed and crop exports. It also diverges from appropriate crop production methods that utilize environmentally sound practices with minimal use of pesticides per unit area. A law addressing minor uses for seed treatment is of fundamental importance, and the recent development of laws regulating minor uses of products for crops of lower economic importance is an important step towards extending these minor uses to seed treatment.
23433635|Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is widely grown across Nigeria, but there is a dearth of information on best production practices yielding high quality seeds of improved varieties, which is indispensable for increasing productivity. Field experiments were conducted during the growing seasons of 2008 and 2009 at Ilorin, Southern Guinea Savanna of Nigeria to determine appropriate planting dates under rainfed conditions that would yield high quality seed. Five improved varieties were planted over a period of 4 months (June, July, August and September) each year. Data was collected on yield, seed quality and related traits. Significant differences in mean seed yield attributable to plant date effects were detected each year. In 2008, the highest seed yield was recorded for the July planting with a mean value of 1681.35 kg ha-1. In 2009 however, the highest seed yield was recorded for the August planting (1914.49 kg ha-1). In both years, cowpea varieties took longer to attain 50% maturity when planted in August while those planted in September matured earlier than plants from seeds planted in other months. Significantly higher incidence of Choanephora pod rot and Cercospora leaf spot were observed for June plantings each year. Seed lots from August and September plantings resulted in significantly higher germination than those planted in June and July. August was recommended for planting cowpea in Ilorin and its environs for optimum seed yield with high quality, but with continuous monitoring of rainfall patterns.
23433631|The overall aim of seed testing is to give reassurance about seed quality to those involved in international trade in seed and to end-users. The significance and importance of using seed tests based on research and validation before inclusion in the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA), Rules for Seed Testing, is emphasised, with reference to the physiological aspects of seed quality, germination and vigor. The reduced germination rate following aging, as measured by mean germination time (mean delay to radicle emergence), is interpreted as the time needed for the metabolic repair of the deleterious effects of aging before germination can proceed. Evidence in support of this seed aging/repair hypothesis is presented from recent internationally co-ordinated research and by a re-examination of existing vigor tests (accelerated aging, controlled deterioration, cold and cool tests and so-called seedling growth tests). This hypothesis is the basis of a rapid, new vigor test, the radicle emergence (RE) test, which has been validated and introduced to the ISTA Rules for maize. Advantages of the RE test and its application to a wide range of other species are described. Aging not only delays RE but also increases leakage from the seeds, the level of which relates to their ability to produce a normal or abnormal seedling. This leads to the possible application of measurements of leachate conductivity to assess germination and in vigor tests. The potential for using molecular methods to test seed quality through detection of DNA damage, ligase activity and other cellular damage is discussed.
23433397|Genotype discrimination of germplasm collections is an essential function of gene banks, enabling efficient delivery of genetic resources to researchers and the seed industry. Seed morphometric measurement by digital imaging analysis has been identified as a fast and reliable method for this task. In this study, 10 seed morphometric variables, namely seed length, seed width, seed thickness, seed diameter, seed area, embryo angle, shape factor, roundness factor, flatness index and circularity index were determined using captured seed images of 20 accessions of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) landraces from germplasm collections at the National Centre for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (NACGRAB) gene bank, Nigeria. Digital seed metric data were subjected to principal components analysis. Shape factor, seed area, length, width, diameter, roundness factor and flatness index had the highest eigenvectors in the first principal component, which accounted for 72.9% of total variance. These variables thus constitute potential descriptors for cultivar discrimination of pepper seeds by digital imaging analysis. Single linkage clustering analysis based on seed size and shape metrics resulted in two major clusters and two minor clusters of the Nigerian pepper landrace collections. Such clusters constitute a classification tool for genotype discrimination when evaluating cultivar identity by seed metrics, and can thus improve management efficiency of genetic resources for pepper breeding.
23433403|Miscanthus sinensis can propagate through seed. However, there is little information regarding seed germination requirements. The objective of this study was to determine the optimal germination temperature requirements for the species. Seed germination was studied using a two-way thermogradient table without light. The temperature gradient in the table had 30 cells with alternating day/night temperatures and 6 cells with constant temperatures. The constant temperature cells were 10, 16, 22, 28, 34, and 40 C, and the alternating temperature cells were a combination of these same temperatures. Fifteen of the alternating temperatures were higher for 16 h and lower for 8 h. The other 15 alternating temperatures were higher for 8 h and lower for 16 h. Seeds exposed to alternating temperatures showed a higher germination percentage value than those at constant temperatures. The highest germination percentage was recorded in cells with a temperature combination of 16 C for 16 h and 22 C for 8 h. These results are important to seed analysts developing a standard germination protocol for Miscanthus sinensis seed.
23433400|Enumerating seeds present in the soil is an element of many studies in disparate fields. Chemical flotation, in which target material is floated to the top of a liquid solution, is a common methodology for recovering seeds from the soil. Traditionally, target material is then decanted from the flotation solution by repeatedly skimming the surface with a net. However, this traditional method can be biased toward species with low relative densities. This study reports on the development of a novel method of decantationthe valve methodand compares its performance to the traditional net-skimming methodology. Specifically, we compared effectiveness (proportion of seeds recovered from a known sample), rapidity (time required to decant that sample), efficiency (number of seeds decanted per second), and recovery bias (effect of relative density on seed recovery). We used each methodology to decant a flotation solution containing a known quantity of soil and seeds (20 replicates per method). Our proposed method was approximately 6% more effective, 425% more rapid, 447% more efficient, and significantly less biased than the traditional method. The differential results obtained using disparate decantation methods highlighted the importance of decantation in the flotation procedure and underscored the necessity of specifying the method of decantation used in any research employing chemical flotation. Any future work relying on flotation to analyze seed banks should clearly describe how samples were decanted and should consider the valve method as a potential means of enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of chemical flotation.
23433399|Nearly all of the bentgrass seed grown in the United States is produced in Oregon. However, little is known about the occurrence of weed seed or pathogen propagule contaminants in bentgrass seed lots. This study was conducted to assess the diversity and frequency of occurrence of weed seeds, ergot (Claviceps purpurea), and seed galls (Anguina agrostis) in colonial (Agrostis capillaris L.) and creeping [Agrostis stolonifera L. var. palustris (Huds.) Farw.] bentgrass certified seed lot samples submitted to the Oregon State University Seed Laboratory during 19861995 and 20022010 for purity analysis. For colonial bentgrass, 115 different weed seed contaminants were detected, with 79 identified to species, 35 to genus and 1 to family. For creeping bentgrass, 60 weed seed contaminants were identified to species, 29 to genus, and 3 to family. The percentage of seed lots per year with no weed contaminants ranged from 13% to 50% and 47% to 84% for colonial bentgrass and creeping bentgrass lots, respectively, depending on year. The number of new weed seed contaminants in colonial and creeping bentgrass increased at a rate of 2.7 and 1.9 per year, respectively. During 20022010, the percentage of seed lots with ergot per year was 4477% for colonial bentgrass and 1630% for creeping bentgrass. Seed galls were found in 215% of colonial bentgrass seed lots, but were not detected in creeping bentgrass. This study revealed a wide and increasing diversity of weed seed contaminants in colonial and creeping bentgrass, and provided evidence of increasing ergot severity in colonial bentgrass.
23433406|This article is a translation of Lakon's paper published in 1942, which is still cited but inaccessible to most scientists. Lakon's paper was a significant milestone in the history of botany and provided technical descriptions of experiments which are still relevant today. Live seeds and dead seeds are often indistinguishable using the unaided eye. This paper describes the origin and useful technical details about topological seed testing using the vital stain 2, 3, 5-triphenyl-tetrazolium-chloride (tetrazolium testing), which have previously had very limited circulation. This is because the research was originally published in a minor regional journal which, to complicate matters, suffered from reduced circulation during the 19391945 world conflict. The culture of science also changed after 1945, and while it was common for prewar research to be published in German, modern botanists today prefer to publish technical manuscripts in English.
23433405|The tetrazolium (TZ) test is a quick and potentially precise method for estimating seed viability. However, its efficiency depends on adapting the methodology for each species. The objective of this study was to determine the best seed preparation methodology for TZ testing of sunn hemp (Crotalaria juncea L.) seeds, as well as establish staining patterns for estimating seed viability. Four seed preparation methods were studied for staining: seed coat removal; longitudinal cross-section cut through the embryonic axis without seed coat removal; longitudinal cut in the distal region of the embryo axis, from the thick-end of the seed through the cotyledons; and transversal cut in the distal region of the embryo axis, across the seed width through the cotyledons. Of the preparation methods studied, the most promising was seed coat removal. Staining patterns of seeds prepared in this manner could be easily classified into three classes. Class 1 included viable, vigorous seeds, class 2 included viable, non-vigorous seeds, and class 3 included non-viable seeds. Therefore, the TZ test with seeds prepared by removing the seed coat is a promising alternative for identifying possible causes of seed viability loss in production systems.
23433398|Initial seed moisture content (SMC) and temperature during seed imbibition can interfere with the electrical conductivity (EC) test results. This study aimed to evaluate soaking solution temperature and SMC on results of the EC test of common bean seeds. For this purpose, two experiments were conducted. The first used five seed lots to determine the physiological potential and the initial SMC of seeds. The SMC of the lots was then adjusted to 9, 11, 13, 15 and 17%, and seeds subjected to the EC test. The second experiment used four seed lots to evaluate the effect of water temperatures of 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 C, before and during imbibition, on EC test results. The EC readings in the first experiment decreased as SMC increased from 9 to 17%, but these values tended to stabilize at SMC higher than 11%. In the second experiment, EC values increased with increasing imbibition water temperature, with the highest values and lowest vigor observed when seeds were imbibed at 30 C. Therefore, the EC test for common bean seeds should be done with seeds at moisture contents between 11 and 15% and a temperature of 25 C during seed imbibition.
23433401|Seed quality, prechilling and temperature affect longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill.) seed cumulative germination and germination speed. Seedlots were grouped into germination classes according to seed quality based on their original laboratory germination, then subjected to different soak methods (water and benomyl), prechilling periods (0, 7, 14, 28, 42, 63 d) and germination temperatures (15, 20, 22, 25, 30 C). Seed quality and germination temperature explained 34% and 31% of cumulative germination variation, respectively, while prechilling explained 1.1%. For speed of germination, seed quality was less important (2.1%) than germination temperature (51%) and prechill factors (24%) in explaining variation. At 0, 7 and 14 d of prechilling, the best temperatures were 15 and 20 C. Germination of poor quality seeds did not improve when prechilling exceeded 7 d. When germination class, prechill length and temperature were combined, high quality seeds responded best to prechilling of 14 to 28 d at optimal temperatures (15 to 22 C). Highly vigorous seeds germinated in the first week following 28 d of prechilling, while low and medium vigor seeds required 42 or 63 d of prechilling. Seed vigor was negated with 42 d of prechilling. Germination speed was reduced from 13 d at 15 C to 5 d at 30 C, even though cumulative germination was lower. The best overall combination to maximize germination rate was 28 d of prechill at 22 C to reach 50% germination in 7 d, with a final germination of 74.9%.
23433404|Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) is a commonly used turfgrass in the temperate climates of the United States. The grass is predominantly established from sod because of its slow germination (21 d). Ultraviolet (UV) light has been noted to enhance germination speed of other crops and it may similarly enhance Kentucky bluegrass germination. Turfgrass seeds from two seed lots were placed in two separate germination chambers and set on an 8 h light/16 h dark schedule. One chamber received only visible light while the other received a supplemental UV light treatment (11.2 kJ m-2 d-1). The treatments were applied for 21 d. Seed germination was counted at 7, 14 and 21 d. Ultraviolet light increased germination capacity and speed in the newer but not older seed lot. Seed germination was greater (p  0.05) at day 7, and after 21 d germination was higher in UV light conditions than in control. These results suggest that treatment of bluegrass seed with UV light may enhance germination, although seed age may override the effect.
23433395|Lindera melissifolia (Walter) Blume, or pondberry, is federally listed as an endangered shrub and grows in warm, humid lowland forests of seven states in the southeastern United States. The dioecious plants usually form clonal colonies as a result of rhizome sprouting. Although L. melissifolia can annually produce many bright red spicy scented drupes, information on reproduction of the species is limited to its clonal regenerative capabilities. We examined the survival of L. melissifolia seeds held within bags for up to 1 y in a soil seed bank. Half of the bags were buried and the other half left on the soil surface. Additionally, bags contained seeds either with the oily fruit pulp removed or with drupes left intact. Results indicated that the presence or absence of the pulp does not significantly affect seed survival. However, the viability of buried seeds was greater than 50% by the end of 1 y, whereas over 70% of the seeds left on the surface were rotten or missing. Buried seeds were seven times more likely to produce seedlings in the field than those left on the soil surface. Because L. melissifolia seedlings are not often observed in naturally occurring populations despite the production of viable seeds, it is likely that environmental conditions or other biotic factors limit the field distribution and sustainability of seedlings.
23433402|Hybridity of a seed lot can be improved by precision seed sorting when seed sizes of the inbred lines vary significantly. In this study, eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) hybrid seed from a leading hybrid (No. 1461734) were used. Seed sizes of the male parent and the hybrid lots were comparatively bigger than the female parent. The hybrid seed lot was subjected to a plant grow-out (PGO) test which showed that the hybrid seed lot was of low genetic purity. A physical purity test of the same lot showed that it contained 20% small seeds, which were then removed and effect of removal evaluated. The proportion of small seeds present clearly indicated the admixture of selfs in the hybrid seed lot. With the objective of removing these smaller seeds to improve hybridity of the seed lot, 10 different screen sizes were tried at the bottom of a gravity separator. Seed was sorted using a screen mesh size of 4.0 mm (round) on top, 3.5 mm (round) in the middle, and 10 variable sizes on the bottom. The 0.9 mm (slotted) bottom screen resulted in significantly higher hybridity (95.57%) when re-tested using the PGO test compared to other screen sizes and the control (81.00%). The 2.0 mm (round) mesh bottom screen significantly increased germination (79%) and usable transplants (76%) compared to other screens and the control (61 and 59%, respectively), and is the recommended screen size for sorting this hybrid compared to other bottom screen sizes and the control.
23433396|The use of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) as a forage, conservation, and feedstock species is limited by its slow and erratic germination and inconsistent establishment, further exacerbated by variable soil moisture conditions. An in vitro study was conducted to determine osmotic stress effects on germination properties of four switchgrass cultivars, 'Alamo', 'Cave-in-Rock', 'Kanlow' and 'Shelter'. Seeds were tested for germination in polyethylene glycol (PEG 8000) solutions at water potentials ranging from 0 to -2.0 MPa with 0.2-MPa increments, at 25 C. Six replicates of 100 stratified seeds were germinated and monitored at 6-h intervals from incubation. Maximum seed germination (MSG) and germination rate were estimated by fitting a 3-parameter sigmoidal function to germination time, which provided germination percentage, response shape and germination speed. Decreased osmotic potentials decreased MSG, while the time required for onset of germination increased across all cultivars. A cultivar by osmotic potential interaction for MSG (p < 0.0001) was observed. Cave-in-Rock had the greatest MSG followed by Shelter, up to -0.2 MPa. Responses were further analyzed by ecotype due to similar responses of Alamo and Kanlow (lowland ecotypes) and Cave-in-Rock and Shelter (upland ecotypes). Ecotypes differed in median germination (p < 0.0001) and germination rate (p < 0.0001). Lowland ecotypes required 27% more time (24 h) to achieve 50% of MSG than upland ecotypes. Germination rate decreased with decreasing osmotic potential for both ecotypes. The developed ecotype-specific algorithms can be used in modeling germination under variable moisture conditions among switchgrass cultivars.
23433493|The effect of differential rates of drying on viability was examined in mature seeds of sal (Shorea robusta C.F. Gaertn) during storage at ambient conditions. The initial seed moisture content (fwb) was 42.1% and the percentage of seed germination was determined after drying slowly (air-dried naturally) and rapidly (over silica gel) compared to seeds held in vermiculite. Seeds became non-viable when desiccated to 19.5% and 9.8% moisture content in natural (slow) and silica gel (rapid) drying, respectively. The seeds dried rapidly over silica gel retained higher germination (33%) at lower moisture content (13.3%) compared to the natural drying. Wet storage in vermiculite was not successful and eventually led to loss of seed viability despite higher moisture contents. Storage experiments carried out with undried (42.1%) and rapidly dried (37.5, 34.9, 31.8, 25.4 and 21.0% moisture content) seeds at temperatures of -196, -20, 0, 15 and 25C, showed maximum viability for undried seeds at 15C. The undried and dried seeds could not tolerate freezing, sub-freezing and cryo-temperatures and were killed within one day of storage. Results suggest that rapid drying of recalcitrant S. robusta seeds to lower moisture levels excludes the possibility of desiccation induced damage compared to the naturally dried seeds, though the long-term storage of these rapidly dried seeds at various temperatures was not possible.
23433495|Hydrotime is a way to describe the relationship between water potential () and seed germination rates and percentages. The minimum  that allows germination to be completed is called the base water potential (b). The germination rate (inverse of time to radicle emergence) increases linearly as the seed  increases above b to its maximum rate in water ( = 0 MPa). As b values vary among individual seeds, germination rates also vary, resulting in lack of uniformity that can be quantified by the standard deviation in b values ${\mathrm{\sigma }}_{{\mathrm{\psi }}_{\mathrm{b}}}$. The hydrotime constant (H) indicates the inherent speed of germination in a seed lot. Thus, hydrotime analysis quantifies the speed of germination (H), the stress tolerance of germination (b) and the uniformity of germination for a seed lot ${\mathrm{\sigma }}_{{\mathrm{\psi }}_{\mathrm{b}}}$, which are all useful indicators of seed vigor. Hydrotime analysis of seed lots under diverse conditions allows them to be ranked according to their potential for successful emergence. It is also a valuable tool for developing and assessing seed enhancement treatments such as pelleting and priming. Hydrotime analysis can be simplified into an endpoint test that could be useful for ranking seed lots according to vigor and for diagnosing seed lot potential under stressful conditions.
23433492|Orchard produced seeds of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Sarg.) clones were subject to standard germination (20 clones) and accelerated aging (12 clones) tests. Based on the first test, strong genetic control over the germination attributes (germination capacity, germination value, peak value and germination speed) was found as indicated by the high values for broad-sense heritabilities ranging from 0.88 to 0.92 and from 0.72 to 0.85 for stratified and unstratified seeds, respectively. Seed stratification increased the speed of germination, but had no effect on germination capacity. In the accelerated aging test, seeds were exposed to 37.5C and 100% relative humidity for 0 to 15 days at 3-day intervals and then germinated with or without stratification. Accelerated aging had significant effect on all germination attributes and accounted for between 32.3 to 88.3% of the total variation. The ability to germinate decreased at different rates across the clones as aging progressed. Stratification improved germination capacity of seeds aged for three days compared to unstratified seeds aged for the same period, but showed no benefits with respect to any germination attribute after three days of aging. Germination of stratified seeds was progressively more delayed as the duration of aging increased while germination speed of unstratified seed increased after three and six days of aging and decreased thereafter. Results have implications for the management of western hemlock genetic resources at the level of commercial seedling production and with respect to the use of seed banks for ex situ gene conservation of this species.
23433489|Surveillance, sampling, and testing for federally listed noxious weeds costs the United States Department of Agriculture substantial amounts of money every year. Because some species of noxious weeds look like related crop species, visual identifications of the seeds are not always accurate. Reversed-Phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (RP-HPLC) of cereal grain proteins has received much attention in recent years as a quick and efficient means of seed identification. A study of Avena abyssinica Hochst., Avena barbata Pott ex Link, Avena fatua L., Avena longiglumis Durieu, Avena sterilis L., Avena strigosa Schreb., Avena hybrids, Oryza sativa L., Oryza longistaminata A. Chev. and Roehr, Oryza punctata Kotschy ex Steud., and Oryza rufipogon Griff. was undertaken to determine if RP-HPLC could be adapted to the identification of these species. Prolamin and glutelin protein fractions of single seed extracts were separated using liquid chromatography and the chromatograms of the species were compared. It was demonstrated that all the species studied had distinct peak patterns, which enable them to be identified. Protein analysis of Avena hybrids appears to provide information of the parentage of those seeds. Dichotomous keys were developed to enhance the interpretation of the peak differences in the species chromatograms. RP-HPLC was shown to be a quick, repeatable and reliable method of Avena and Oryza species identification.
23433496|Compared to untreated seeds, primed seeds (depending on the species and treatment) have increased speed and uniformity of emergence, but one clear drawback is that their shelf life is reduced. In recent years, methods were developed to improve longevity after priming, building on experience gained in research on induction of desiccation tolerance of pregerminated seeds. The benefits and limitations of priming and pregermination are discussed. Recently primed and pregerminated seeds have been used as model systems for studies on desiccation tolerance and shelf life and examples of such work are presented.
23433490|Weeping alkaligrass (Puccinellia distans (Jacq.) Parl.) is a small-seeded grass species similar in size to Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) and rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis L.). Two purity methods were compared: 1) the hand separation method (HSM), requiring microscopic examination of each seed unit to insure the presence of at least one caryopsis in each seed unit, and 2) the Uniform Blowing Procedure (UBP) similar to the procedure described in the Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds used for several species of Poa, in which empty and under developed florets are removed mechanically via air stream separation in a General type seed blower. The study was conducted in two phases: Experiment I determined a UBP for weeping alkaligrass that would provide pure seed and pure live seed percentages similar to those obtained with the currently accepted HSM; and Experiment II consisted of a collaborative study among laboratories to validate the UBP as a viable alternative to the HSM for purity testing of weeping alkaligrass. These two experiments demonstrate that use of a mathematical factor of 0.76 in combination with the Kentucky bluegrass blowing point achieves pure seed percentages that are not statistically different from those obtained by the HSM. In addition, the UBP was demonstrated to be a 42% more time efficient method of purity testing among participating laboratories.
23433494|Obtaining uniform stands of vegetable crops in field or greenhouse environments is often challenging. Successful germination and seedling establishment is usually linked to several important factors, including 1) the use of high vigor seed; 2) planting at proper soil depths; 3) sowing into well prepared seedbeds with calibrated seeders and good seed singulation; 4) field selection and planting date decisions; 5) suitable cultivars; and 6) seed treatments. The emphasis of this presentation will be on seed vigor tests for vegetable seeds, yet all the factors listed above are closely tied to the concept of vigor. Definitions of vigor (Hampton and TeKrony, 1995) mainly describe the associated seedling establishment consequences of seed lots that differ in quality. The objectives of this manuscript are to 1) review the benefits of quality vegetable seeds; 2) discuss the connection of seed production and seed enhancement variables to seed vigor; and 3) summarize current and emerging vigor tests used for vegetable crop species.
23433491|Common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) is an important legume crop for feed in the Mediterranean regions where high vigor seed is needed to overcome limited moisture stress at planting time. Early harvesting of common vetch grown for seed may decrease seed losses due to shattering, but may result in reduced seed germination and vigor. Field experiments were conducted to study the effect of maturity stage on seed germination and vigor of common vetch. Pods were harvested at five developmental stages: beginning seed fill (BS), full seed pod (FS), greenish-yellow pod (GY), yellow pod (Y), and brown pod (B). Seeds harvested at different stages were germinated under osmotic stress levels of 0, -0.4, -0.8, -1.2, and -1.6 MPa, and after three accelerated aging (AA) treatments of 39C for 72 h, 39C for 96 h, and 45C for 48 h). Seed germination percentage, germination rate index (GRI), shoot and root lengths, and electrical conductivity of seed leachate (EC) were measured for each of the germination environments. Maximum seed germination, GRI, and shoot and root length under no osmotic stress (0 MPa) were attained when seeds were harvested at or after the GY stage. Delaying seed harvest to the B stage improved seed germination, GRI, shoot and root lengths under osmotic stresses of -0.4 and -0.8 MPa. Maximum germination after AA and the lowest EC values were achieved when seeds were harvested at or after the yellow pod stage. Incubating seeds at 39C for 94 h and at 45C for 48 h under 100% RH were the best AA treatments to discriminate and evaluate seed vigor of common vetch. In conclusion, delaying harvest of common vetch seed until the yellow or brown pod stages may improve seed germination and vigor under a wide range of field conditions.
23433217|The optimum harvest stages for cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. sesquipedalis (L.) Verdc.] are critical to the vegetable market, as well as quality seed production. Pods of 'Lola' cowpea were harvested at two day intervals from 2 to 24 days after anthesis to measure pod and seed characteristics. Fruit and seed maturation occurred in two phases. The pod length and pod weight reached maximum at 12 days after anthesis, which is considered the optimum harvest stage for vegetable use. The maximum germination and vigor index was observed in seeds from pods harvested at 18 days after anthesis, which is considered as physiological maturity and the optimum stage to harvest for use as seed.
23433231|Several environmental conditions, including soil type, soil moisture and planting depth, affect stand establishment of winter canola (Brassica napus L.). The use of polymer coating on other crops has been reported to improve plantability. Therefore, the effects of three polymers (Spectrum Series 100, Spectrum Series 500 and SB 2000) coated on canola seed with three concentrations (0.25, 0.50 and 1.00%) were evaluated in comparison to uncoated seed (control) for standard germination, germination at three moisture stress levels (-0.3, -0.5, -0.7 MPa) and seedling establishment from 0.5 and 1 inch depth in sandy, silt, and clay loam soils. Results showed that all polymers decreased germination significantly and polymer SB 2000 had a greater negative effect than Spectrum Series 100 and 500. Decrease in moisture potential and increase in polymer concentration further decreased germination. Spectrum Series 100 at 0.50% and Spectrum Series 500 at 1.00% concentration increased stand establishment at 0.5 in depth compared to 1 in depth in all three soil types. The results of the study suggest that polymer coating can be used to slow down germination and to estimate actual field stand establishment.
23433213|A method for recovering seeds in soils was developed in collaboration with the United States Department of Transportation. Two approaches were considered: 1) separating seeds via wet-sieving and 2) seedling grow-out tests. Three types of samples were included: field topsoil, commercial topsoil and municipal compost. The wet-sieving procedure used sodium hexametaphosphate to disperse soil samples. Samples were washed through a set of three sieves with decreasing mesh diameters. Seeds collected from each of the sieves were sorted by hand, identified and counted by species. For the seedling grow-out tests, soils collected from sieves and the catchment bucket, as well as unsieved soil samples, were saturated with a solution containing gibberellic acid and potassium nitrate, then kept moistened under green-house conditions for 28 d. Seeds of 23 weed species were found in the commercial topsoils using the wet-sieving technique, seven of which are on the Utah noxious weed list. A higher percentage of the seeds present were retrieved from smaller samples (40 cm3). Seedling grow-out tests were laborious and failed to detect as many seeds and species as the wet-sieving procedure. Results of this study suggest that screening procedures can effectively identify and quantify weed seeds in soils, but confirm that seedling grow-out tests are impractical. As experts in seed identification, seed analysts may be the ideal group to conduct soil tests on weed seeds.
23433218|The effect of seed maturity at harvest and slow and fast drying methods on okra [Abelmoschus esculentus (L). Moench.] germination and seed vigor were studied. Fruits were harvested 25, 30, 35, 40 and 45 days after anthesis (DAA) in 2002 and 2003 and seeds were either threshed immediately after harvest and dried at 20 C for 72 hours (fast drying method) or allowed to remain in the fruits for 10 days at 20  2 C, then threshed and dried (slow drying method). Seed quality at each stage was assessed by speed of radicle protrusion, standard germination, 5-day germination count, accelerated aging test and seedling emergence percentages along with changes in seed color, moisture and weight. Initial seed moisture content varied between 66.0 and 13.6% and 62.7 and 14.8% in harvests of 2002 and 2003, respectively. Maximum seed dry weight (5760 mg/seed) occurred at 30 DAA regardless of the drying method used. Maximum standard germination, 5-day germination count and seedling emergence percentages occurred at 30 DAA and coincided with maximum seed dry weight when seeds were slow dried within the fruit, but occurred 1015 days later (4045 DAA) if they were threshed and dried immediately after harvest. Results showed that threshing okra seeds following slow drying in the fruits increased seed weight in early harvest and improved seed quality at maturity.
23433224|Standard germination is typically the only laboratory bioassay performed on rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed. Currently, no suggested or recommended procedures for conducting rice seed vigor tests are available in the handbooks on vigor testing from the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) or the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA). In April, 2003, a study was conducted on ten lots to examine possible vigor tests for rice seed. The tests that were performed are 1) standard germination, 2) sand germination, 3) cold germination, 4) cool germination, 5) accelerated aging, 6) saturated cold and 7) bulk electrical conductivity. The standard and sand germination methods provided the highest germination percentages, followed by the cold, accelerated aging, saturated cold and cool test methods. The results obtained for both the cool and electrical conductivity tests indicated that the test parameters need adjustment to separate lots with differing vigor levels. The cold and accelerated aging test methods discriminated between samples with lower seed vigor and those with high standard germination percentages. Additional studies should include more seed lots and laboratory results should be compared to actual field emergence to further evaluate the cold and accelerated aging methods for assay of rice seed vigor.
23433221|Mericarps of 'Moss Curled' parsley (Petroselinum crispum Mill. Nym. ex A.W. Hill) were hydroprimed (1 or 3 days in water at 20 C) or osmotically primed in polyethylene glycol (-1.0 MPa for 7 or 21 days at 20 C). Extracted whole embryos then were subjected to a modified chromosome squash technique which sequentially involved fixing, staining, tissue squashing, and chromosomal viewing. The technique quantified relative embryonic mitotic activity. The number of cells per embryo with late anaphase activity was greatest for 3 day hydroprimed mericarps (15), then 7 or 21 day osmotic primed mericarps (3), with 1 day hydroprimed mericarps showing no mitotic activity.
23433230|The feasibility of using simple sequence repeat (SSR) DNA markers as an alternative to isozymes for testing hybrid purity in corn was assessed. SSR markers have the advantage of being abundant and distributed throughout the maize genome; whereas isozymes in corn have limited value for separating offtypes due to their relatively low numbers, poor polymorphism, plus the method has low throughput. Most SSR markers are co-dominant, single copy and polymorphic among corn inbred lines. PCR multiplexing of SSR markers makes it possible to simultaneously use more SSR markers to assess corn hybrid purity. This approach maximizes efficiency by increasing throughput and decreasing costs. SSR markers are amplified from genomic DNA extracted directly from single dry seeds compared with isozymes for electrophoresis that are extracted from 10-day-old seedlings.
23433228|The accelerated aging (AA) test exposes seeds for short periods to two environmental variables, high temperature and high relative humidity, which cause rapid seed deterioration. High vigor seed lots will withstand these stressful conditions, deteriorate at a slower rate and have high germination following aging, compared to low vigor seed lots. This paper reviews the major factors influencing the AA test results and provides a stepwise procedure for conducting the test. The essential equipment needed for the AA test is outlined and the primary questions relating to standardization of this test are answered. The results of the AA test have been shown to provide an accurate estimate of seed vigor in soybean, corn and many other crop species. Several studies have reported that AA results more accurately predict field emergence under stressful soil conditions than do standard germination results. The AA test for soybean is recommended by the Seed Vigor Testing committees of both the Association of Official Seed Analysts and International Seed Testing Association (ISTA). The AA test has met the ISTA requirements for repeatability and standardization and was approved in 2001 for the International Rules for Seed Testing as an accepted vigor test for soybean seed.
23433219|Extraction and amplification of plant DNA is an integral part of using molecular technology for crop improvement such as in molecular marker-assisted selection (MAS). In soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.], leaves are generally the tissue of choice for DNA extraction. A comparison was made between using standard leaf extracted DNA and seed extracted DNA while utilizing a marker-assisted selection protocol to detect resistance to Heterodera glycines Ichinohe, the soybean cyst nematode (SCN) and Phytophthora sojae Kaufm. & Gerd., the cause of Phytophthora root rot. The protocol was unsuccessful using seeds, thus experiments were conducted to determine modifications that would allow seeds as the DNA source. The resulting procedure consisted of extracting DNA from seed radicles and using a disk-based DNA purification system. The DNA was amplified with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using microsatellite primers Satt309 and Sat_168 to detect the rhg 1 SCN resistance gene and Satt 159 and Satt 152 to detect the Rps 1 Phytophthora resistance gene. The resulting product was diluted 1:100 in TE buffer and 1 l aliquot was reamplified and then electrophoresed in an agarose gel. A second protocol was developed by changing PCR conditions of the standard leaf DNA protocol to use undiluted DNA extract. These protocols from DNA extraction to gel completion are easy to conduct and can be completed in about 7 to 9 hours. Both protocols resulted in consistent visualization of microsatellite markers for resistance to both H. glycines and P. sojae and were equal to the results using leaf tissue as the DNA source. Using seeds instead of leaves as the DNA source can simplify MAS protocols.
23433223|Oil palm, Elaeis guineensis Jacq., seed is dormant when harvested and, under natural conditions, germinates sporadically over several years. A method to break dormancy would be beneficial to commercial seed production and the timely supply of planting material. Hence, this investigation evaluated seed germination by using accelerated aging to break dormancy in fresh oil palm seed. Changes in seed moisture content during ambient storage and accelerated aging (AA) were documented. Accelerated aging was performed according to the Seed Vigor Testing Handbook of the Association of Official Seed Analysts. One sub-sample was AA treated without initial water soaking and another was presoaked for five days prior to the AA test. An un-aged control sample was maintained under ambient storage conditions at 35 C in closed polyethylene bags. Seed were tested for germination and moisture content following AA treatment at ten day intervals over 120 days. Moisture content of the control was found to decrease over the 120 day storage period; whereas, aged seeds maintained uniformly high moisture content. Aged oil palm seeds exhibited significantly improved germination capacity compared to un-aged seeds. It was noteworthy that presoaked AA treated seeds recorded 40, 72 and 80% germination after 50, 60 and 70 days; whereas, un-aged seeds had no germination during the same period. Furthermore, the five day presoak followed by aging treatment significantly improved germination.
23433211|An image processing computer application to automatically assess the vigor of three-day-old soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] and corn (Zea mays L.) seedlings was developed. The software operates on acquired digital images of soybean and corn seed lots placed on a paper towel. Seedlings were digitally extracted away from the paper towel and converted into various digital representations. These representations were used to analyze the seedlings and segment them into normal and abnormal categories. The normal seedlings were further processed so that a one-pixel-wide summary structure of the shape of the seedling was produced. From the soybean summary structure, the software classified the seedlings into six type categories based on their shape. Each normal seedling was processed to remove the cotyledon portion of the summary structure based on the type category it fell into. The remaining summary structure, with the cotyledon removed, was then used to compute the length of each seedling in pixels. From the corn summary structure, the software first identified seeds based on their yellowish-red color, connected nearby multiple roots to the seed, and separated overlapping roots to the correct seed. Once the seedling structures were correctly identified for soybean and corn, seedling length measurements were determined. From these length measurements, speed of growth and uniformity of growth values were computed. These two values were normalized and combined into a zero to 1,000 vigor index for the soybean or corn seed lot. Combined with the post-processing corrective features, this computer software was able to achieve highly accurate and standardized measurements of each soybean and corn seedling, providing an alternative to the current method of manually measuring seedlings for speed and uniformity of growth when performing a vigor test.
23433225|Production of seed peanuts requires careful management of several factors that may affect quality, for example, adequate water and calcium availability during pod-fill, maturity at harvest, curing and storage at the recommended temperature and seed moisture levels, and shelling and conditioning with minimal mechanical damage. Seed vigor tests may be used to assess storability and suitability for planting. Tests may be categorized as quick tests, which can be performed within 24 hours, and standard germination and stress-type germination tests, which require 7 to 12 days. Calcium assay is included as a quick method to assess quality since it is a critical nutrient for seed peanuts. The tetrazolium and electrical conductivity tests both evaluate aspects of tissue integrity. The standard germination test is indicative of seed vigor with > 85% germination considered strong vigor. The accelerated aging and cold germination tests are two stress-type methods that are good indicators of seed strength. The accelerated aging procedure has been well documented for use on a number of crops and it provides good reliability when procedures are closely adhered to; however, it does not apply well to high volume laboratory testing. The cold germination test is well suited to high volume testing when performed parallel with the standard germination test. Since these various testing methods evaluate different parameters of seed vigor, it is recommended that a combination of calcium assay, standard germination test and stress-type vigor test provides the best management information for seed peanuts.
23433220|Greenhouse and laboratory studies were conducted in 2002 to detect the presence of Phomopsis sp. in weed species that may be associated with reducing soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality. Phomopsis longicolla T. W. Hobbs, the fungal pathogen responsible for soybean seed decay, was recovered from previously unreported asymptomatic weed species. P. longicolla was recovered from eclipta, prickly sida, Illinois bundleflower, Texasweed, prostrate knotweed, pitted morningglory, nodding spurge, and slender aster found in nearby soybean field. The isolates from weed species were used to inoculate greenhouse-grown weeds and soybean. The P. longicolla recovered from eclipta and nodding spurge were the most aggressive and were as pathogenic as the soybean isolate. Sicklepod and palmleaf morningglory were included in the test and were severely infected by the isolates from eclipta, nodding spurge, and soybean. These results indicate the potential existence of pathogen variability within P. longicolla and these weed species may serve as symptomless carriers and source of inoculum which may result in reduced soybean seed quality.
23433216|Elevated antioxidant content of tomato fruits is desirable for human health and nutrition. In seeds, antioxidant capacity may also be a desirable trait for increased seed storability and slower deterioration rates. This study was conducted to test whether tomato fruits from a genotype with elevated levels of natural antioxidants produce seeds with a functionally greater total antioxidant capacity. The tomato genotype 'T4099', which produces elevated levels of lycopene and ascorbic acid, and the recurrent parent 'Flora-Dade' were grown in the field and greenhouse under standard agronomic practices. Fruits and seeds were evaluated for antioxidant capacity and lycopene content. Total antioxidant capacity of the water- and lipid-soluble fractions of seeds were evaluated using the Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and photo-induced chemiluminescence (PCL) methods. The high pigment line 'T4099' resulted in a higher fruit tissue lycopene content and total antioxidant capacity than 'Flora-Dade'. However, both TEAC and PCL methods indicated that seeds of 'T4099' had lower antioxidant capacity and that the difference was greater for water-soluble antioxidants. Based on these results, it is hypothesized that tomato fruits and seeds may compete for antioxidants. Fruits with enhanced lycopene content are desirable for human consumption, yet this may produce seeds with lower antioxidant levels and influence seed dormancy or longevity in storage.
23433212|Seed (F1) of SCRC15 cotton, a commercial hybrid cultivar, was obtained by crossing a conventional line with a Bt transgenic line at five successive periods in 2001. Seeds were separated into four maturity grades using a floatsink procedure and coat colors. Physical properties and seed vigor were tested in each grade. The results revealed that seed density, kernel index and kernel/seed were significantly correlated to maturity grades, and thus could be used as important indicators of seed maturity. As seed became more mature, higher emergence and fewer diseased seedlings occurred at standard germination (30 C) and cool germination (18 C) temperatures. Water uptake speed and conductivity of electrolyte leakage were inversely correlated to seed maturity. Hybrid seed maturity varied with crossing periods. The percentage of immature hybrid seeds from the last crossing period was the highest, suggesting that ending hand crossing earlier than August 23 promotes higher seed quality.
23433222|Genetic identity is important in seed production of such sexually propagated, cross-fertilized, heterozygous crops as coconut palm (Cocos nucifera L.), which are exclusively propagated by seeds. Due to their uniform nature, twins are used in genetic studies, breeding and to determine identity. The objective was to identify uniform phenotypic traits within twins for use in determining genetic identity. Phenotypic correlation was determined among twin pairs for 11 important foliar traits in coconut. Of the traits under study, leaf sheath fiber thickness, petiole length and number of leaflets had high correlation and are either highly heritable or have adaptive significance. These traits have practical applications in seed production and breeding.
23433214|Schinopsis balansae Engl., constitutes the dominant species in the forests that occupy the Northern Santa Fe Province, Argentina. This research assesses the quality of S. balansae seeds harvested in 2000 and 2001. The seeds were evaluated 3, 12, and 18 months after harvest for viability by the tetrazolium and standard germination tests and for vigor by the germination velocity index (GVI). Incidence of pathogens was determined in both fruits (samara) and seeds. After three months of storage at 3 C, 77% of the seeds harvested in 2000 germinated, but only 29% germinated after 18 months. Of the seeds harvested in 2001, only 28% germinated after a 3-month cold storage period, and completely lost their viability after 18 months. Seeds tested 3 months after harvest in 2000 showed the greatest vigor index (GVI). Low quality production in 2001 appeared to be from adverse environmental conditions with poor seed quality and 55% of fruit lacking seeds. The viability and the vigor tests were good indicators of S. balansae seed quality.
23433226|The cool germination test is the most widely used measure of seed vigor in the USA to evaluate cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) planting-seed quality. The purposes of this test are to rank seed lots and to determine if seed lots are suitable for planting in cool soils or less than ideal situations. The cool germination test is conducted on 200 seeds (four replicates  50 seeds each) in rolled towels at an 18 C constant temperature. Rolled towels are placed upright and incubated for seven days. On the seventh day, a single final count is made. Normal seedlings are defined as those having a combined radicle + hypocotyl length of four cm or longer. It is critical that the average temperature is maintained at 18 C with no more than  0.3 C fluctuation for the duration of this test. Seed lots with greater than 60% cool test values are considered good to excellent. A vigor index based on a combination of cool and standard germination test results is a good predictor of field emergence. Freshly harvested cottonseeds can be physiologically dormant or hard-seeded, resulting in low cool test scores from slow seedling growth or restricted imbibition. As a result, caution must be used when interpreting low-test scores in newly harvested seeds. The cool germination test is a reliable predictor for the quality of both weather deteriorated new crop seed and carryover seed.
23433215|Tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) varieties rich in lycopene are desirable for human nutrition because it reduces risk of various cancers. Tomato genes that cause elevated lycopene content such as dark green (dg) are available. However, several genes that result in elevated lycopene also result in negative pleiotropic effects including slow germination and reduced plant height. It is uncertain whether low gibberellin levels, high abscisic acid (ABA) content or high light sensitivity account for the reduced speed of germination of dg tomato genotypes. This study evaluated gibberellin (GA3) and norflurazon (inhibitor of carotenoid and ABA synthesis) effects on the speed of germination of the high pigment tomato line 'T4099' and its recurrent parent 'Flora-Dade'. These tomato genotypes were greenhouse-produced in summer 2001 for fruit and seed production. Seeds from mature red fruits were sown in solutions of GA3 (10-4M), norflurazon 20 mg L-1 and norflurazon plus GA3. Speed of germination was evaluated as time to reach 50% germination (T50) and germination index. Norflurazon alone and GA3 plus norflurazon resulted in higher speed of germination of 'T4099' compared to the control but not at the same level as 'Flora-Dade'. These data suggest that the high lycopene tomato genotype 'T4099' produced greater levels of ABA during imbibition.
23433229|Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Monench] seed is often tested for vigor in addition to the standard germination test. Often the same tests that are used for hybrid maize are used for sorghum. The range in correlation between these tests and field performance is varied and depends upon the stress level present in the field. The causes of the vigor differences in sorghum are similar to those of other crops; however, evaluating vigor in sorghum can be confounded by the presence of a transient dormancy. Further, sorghum has, in general, received less total research than maize. Some data suggests that traditional laboratory seedling vigor tests used for other crops may not apply as well to sorghum. Genetic influence on seedling vigor appears to be a potential area for breeders to screen cultivars as well as for laboratory applications to predict seedling vigor. Factors such as seed size, membrane integrity and response to seed maturation temperature impact the resultant sorghum seed vigor. Since mitochondria are sensitive to stresses in the production environment and receive maternally inherited qualities, this may be an area that could be developed for laboratory evaluation of sorghum seed vigor. High vigor seed possess an abundant supply of intact and protected mitochondria which upon imbibition are able to immediately begin oxidative phosphorylation and generate the energy needed to support growth and development.
23433227|Effective management of cottonseed requires assessment of a number of quality factors to determine storability and suitability for planting. The seedling growth test, free fatty acid test and cutting test, which assay physiological, biochemical and physical parameters of cottonseed quality, respectively, are probably the three most routinely used procedures other than the cotton cool test. The seedling growth test evaluates seedling vigor during the early days of the germination test, hence it can be performed very cost effectively. The free fatty acid test assays cottonseed oil quality and is commonly used on bulk cottonseed. The cutting test evaluates seed maturity in bulk cottonseed as a measure of quality by examining the condition and color of the seed embryo. These procedures are used to determine seed quality following harvest, but they may also be used over time to monitor seed during storage and conditioning, plus prior to marketing and planting.
23433338|Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.), a native prairie grass, is being increasingly used as a biomass energy crop. To determine optimal conditions for germination, the effect of temperature and pH were studied using several switchgrass cultivars. Seeds of eight cultivars were germinated at five temperatures and nine pH levels. The optimal conditions for germination were found to be 25 C with a substrate of pH 6.0. The data indicated that germination occurs relatively well in substrates with pH values ranging from 68 if the temperature is within 2535 C. The interaction between pH and temperature provides strong management implications. For optimum stand establishment in the field, switchgrass should be planted in warm soils with a pH range of 58. These results indicate that switchgrass establishment in soils with pH values outside this range may not be successful.
23433342|Fast and reliable results from seed quality tests are essential for producers. The Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) was developed to improve assessment of seed quality. This study had the objective of identifying the optimum paper towel moisture contents and temperatures for maize and soybean seed germination during a three-day test period. Seeds were planted on paper towels with seven different moisture contents for maize and eight for soybean. Three different temperatures (24, 25 and 26 C) were used for germination of the two crops. Decreased speed of growth and overall vigor indices were observed when the moisture content of the paper towels had less than 96% saturation in maize and 79% saturation in soybean. When the germinator temperature varied 1 C less than 25 C, no difference was detected in the SVIS indices. However, a difference of 1 C more than 25 C caused a significant increase in seedling growth. These results demonstrate the importance of monitoring paper towel moisture contents used for the SVIS test, particularly for maize seeds, and show that moisture and temperature variables must be carefully controlled during standard germination and vigor tests to assure standardization of reported results.
23433340|This study was undertaken to determine whether soaking marigold (Tagetes patula L.) or verbena (Verbena  hybrida Voss.) seeds in various concentrations of paclobutrazol solution reduces the level of seed metabolism and seed viability. Tetrazolium tests demonstrated that verbena seeds soaked in solutions of 50500 mgL-1 paclobutrazol were viable. Verbena or marigold seeds soaked in solutions of 10500 mgL-1 paclobutrazol had lower respiration and heat production rates than controls. These lower respiration rates were not found in washed verbena or marigold seeds suggesting that paclobutrazol had been leached from the seeds. Lowering seedling emergence in verbena with increasing paclobutrazol concentrations and corresponding inhibition of CO2 emission rates indicated that paclobutrazol imposed dormancy in verbena seeds.
23433339|This study developed an extraction protocol for pollen DNA in corn, and screened current and new primers designed to detect the CaMV35S promoter in corn pollen and seed. Bt transgenic and non-transgenic corn hybrids were used to obtain the seed and pollen DNA. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and gel electrophoresis were used to evaluate the efficacy of the pollen DNA extraction protocol, and to test the efficiency of 11 primer pairs in detecting the CaMV35S promoter sequence. The DNA extraction method described here was very successful in releasing the DNA from pollen grains, as determined by the intensity of the 18 bands of genomic DNA samples amplified with the HMG-AF1/HMG-AR1 corn-specific primers. The strong intensity of the bands formed by primers P35S1/P35S2, P35SA/P35SB and P35S-aflu/P35S-ar1 showed these primers were the most efficient in amplifying transgenic pollen DNA; whereas, primers P35S1/P35S2 generated the strongest band intensity in seed DNA. The new primers 35S168F/35S317R showed higher sensitivity in detecting the CaMV35S promoter than any other primer included in this experiment. The proposed pollen DNA extraction method and the primer 35S168F/35S317R were very effective in extracting DNA from pollen samples and identifying the CaMV535S promoter sequence in transgenic varieties.
23433336|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] plants were grown in controlled environments to evaluate the effect of high temperature (38, 33 C) stress on standard germination (SG) and vigor [accelerated-aging germination (AA) and electrical conductivity]. Initially, the effect of changing the standard temperature cycle in the phytotron from 10 and 14 hours at the maximum and minimum temperatures to a cycle that mimicked the sinusodial field temperature cycle (maximum temperature did not change) was evaluated. The maximum temperature of 38 C reduced SG and vigor for soybean cultivars 'Hutcheson' and 'McCall', while only vigor was reduced at 33 C, just as in the standard cycle. Secondly, the effect of short exposures to high temperature at various intervals during seed development was evaluated. Plants were moved to the growth chamber at weekly intervals during seed filling and returned to the greenhouse after a 7- or 14-day exposure to 38/27 C. Exposure for 7-day periods during seed development did not affect SG and caused only small reductions in AA. Fourteen-day exposure periods caused larger reductions in SG (maximum reduction of 32 percentage points) and AA (maximum of 62 percentage points) when high temperatures occurred later in seed development, but had no effect early in development. The quality of seeds that matured (pods turned yellow or brown) during the high temperature treatment was the same as seeds that matured after treatment (pods were green at the end of treatment). High temperature represents another stress in addition to disease infection and mechanical damage, which can reduce soybean seed quality during seed production.
23433337|An image processing computer application was developed to collect statistics of physical characteristics from seeds. A machine learning technique ensured that the software was applicable to a wide variety of species so that it could be used in purity analysis tests. The method presented requires an inexpensive scanner and a modern personal computer. The software operates by locating seeds within the digitized image of the purity sample and takes measurements on each seed (width, height, area, perimeter, average color, etc.). These measurements are inputted into a classification routine trained to recognize all potential seeds within the sample. The classification routine determines the closest matching species for each seed in the image and reports the results to the user. Because of the wide variation in seeds encountered in purity tests, the automated system of measurement and classification is highly configurable. The seed identification system is designed to be rapidly adapted to specific seed types and trained without knowledge of artificial intelligence techniques.
23433345|We previously mapped four unlinked restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers associated with soybean cyst nematode (SCN) resistance. The partial coefficient of determinations (R2) of the major quantitative trait locus (QTL) A006 is 91%. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) linked to the major QTL of soybean cyst nematode resistance was detected by comparing sequences amplified from "Hartwig," a broad-based SCN resistant line, and "Williams 82," an SCN susceptible line. The SNP was validated using SCN bioassay data at Purdue University. This SNP is located within the site of Fau I, which makes it possible to distinguish resistant allele T from susceptible allele C by PCR followed by Fau I digestion. The discovery of this SNP and its easy detection are of significant importance to plant breeders and to quality assurance managers.
23433343|The pure seed unit as applied in seed purity analysis is poorly defined and difficult to determine for many native species belonging to the Asteraceae. This paper reviews the history of the pure seed unit for Asteraceae as defined in the Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds from 1955 to the present. In the 1950s, only eight Asteraceae species were listed in the AOSA Rules and these were widely cultivated and highly milled due to their thick, opaque fruit walls. However, there are now at least 90 species of Asteraceae listed in the AOSA Rules and these taxa are not highly cultivated or milled. Furthermore, the pure seed unit definitions have fundamental differences between the AOSA, ISTA and the Canadian purity methods. Recently, Artemisia tridentata has been studied to determine an accurate pure seed unit definition. It is important to promote such work to foster standardization of the pure seed unit as it applies to the large number of species in the Asteraceae.
23433341|Seed storage proteins of thirteen species of the genus Prosopis L. were investigated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The resulting chromatograms demonstrated that the species studied could be separated into three classical taxonomic sections previously established by plant morphology. Individual species showed enough variation to be accurately identified based on their respective chromatograms, except for P. glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa, P. glandulosa var. torreyana (L. D. Benson) M. C. Johnst., and P. velutina Wooton. Peak retention time ratios to a reference peak were used to identify individual peaks. The presence or absence of these peaks allowed for identification of individual species. A synoptic key was devised to help interpret the chromatograms. Protein analysis by RP-HPLC appears to be a quick and easy method for species identification within Prosopis and should be a useful tool to plant biologists and seed analysts as an aid to species identification.
23433346|Experiments were conducted in 19982000 to develop vigor tests for evaluating the performance of Argentine canola, Brassica napus L., under different growing conditions. Seed lots were evaluated annually in 57 seed laboratories using the standard germination test (SGT) and pre-chill test (PCT). Germination was assessed after 7 d in the SGT and after 11 or 12 d in the PCT. The vigor index of seed lots was calculated by multiplying the 1000-seed weight by percent germination/100. Seed lots were evaluated annually at 36 locations. Seeds were planted into warm dry soil in 1998, cool moist soil in 1999 and cool dry soil in 2000. Statistical correlations and linear regression were used to identify seed attributes that provided the best indication of seedling establishment, shoot weight and biomass. In all field trials, germination in the SGT and PCT was strongly correlated with seedling establishment and poorly correlated with shoot weight. Establishment improved as germination increased. Germination in the SGT and PCT provided an equally good indication of establishment in warm soil and cool soil. Thousand-seed weights were poorly correlated with establishment and strongly correlated with shoot weights. With a 1.0 g increase in seed weight, shoot weights increased by 105 mg in warm soil and by 1850 mg in cool soil. Vigor indices of seed lots in the SGT and PCT were highly correlated with biomass in all field trials. With a 1.0 unit increase in the vigor index, biomass increased by 1.41.6 g/m-row in warm soil and by 0.41.1 g/m-row in cool soil. Vigor indices in the PCT provided the best indication of biomass in warm and cool soils.
23433249|Recently some soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] growers in the southern USA have shifted to early maturing cultivars to avoid drought, which often occurs during late summer. Seed quality of cultivars that mature early (August and early September) is often poor. The impermeable seed coat (ISC) trait has provided protection for seed exposed to late season weathering; however, it is not known if it will improve seed quality of early maturing soybean. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of ISC on germination of seed harvested from early maturing lines. ISC and permeable seed coat (PSC) lines derived from the crosses D86-4565 X C1747 and D86-4565 X C1813 were studied. These lines ranged in maturity from late August to early October, when grown at Stoneville, MS in 1993 and 1994. Standard germination tests were used to assess effect. ISC lines were significantly higher in germination in one cross (D86-4565 X C1747) in 1993, but did not differ from PSC lines in either cross in 1994. There was a strong positive correlation (r = 0.630.75) between mean germination and maturity date in 1993 among lines within each seed coat class for both crosses. Maturity in 1994 was not correlated with germination except among PSC lines from the D86-4565 X C1747 population (r = -0.38). Results indicated that ISC was not consistently effective in protecting seed quality in early maturing lines. Several early maturing lines with PSC showed acceptable germination in both years indicating potential for improvement of this trait.
23433254|A laboratory test for determining the presence of the Roundup Ready gene in soybean seeds was developed by the ISU Seed Testing Laboratory and approved by Monsanto. The procedure recommended to evaluate the percent expression of the Roundup Ready gene includes a seed lot of unknown tolerance and two controls, a susceptible soybean seed lot and a known Roundup Ready soybean seed lot. All seed lots are imbibed in a 2% solution of the ROUNDUP ULTRA formulation (41% active ingredient), for a concentration of 0.82% active ingredient, glyphosate, in the solution. Two replications of 100 seeds of each lot are placed overnight in paper towels treated with the ROUNDUP solutions. Imbibed seeds are then germinated following the prescribed procedure for soybeans (AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds) and evaluated after 7 days. A standard germination test is also planted to use as a comparison of the abnormal seedlings. Susceptible seeds present severe toxicity symptoms. Radicles of the affected seedlings are yellow to brown and stunted, with little or no secondary root growth. Seedlings of Roundup Ready soybeans develop normally.
23433248|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] seed deterioration occurs because of several physiological factors. One model suggests that a primary event causing loss of seed quality is DNA degradation. To test this model, changes in DNA integrity occurring during seed aging were evaluated using RAPD (Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA) analyses. Five soybean cultivars (Pennyrile, Corsica, Stafford, Essex and Pharaoh) represented by two seed lots each were evaluated after storage under ambient warehouse (0% germination) and cold room at 10 C and 50% R.H. (68 to 94% germination) conditions for four to five years. The extraction, quantification, amplification of DNA templates, and electrophoresis were conducted using four primers. Evaluations were performed on samples of whole dry seeds and their constituent parts (embryo axes and cotyledons) of each seed lot. The results demonstrated no influence of seed deterioration on RAPD fragment expression under both storage conditions. Similar results were found for different seed tissues that displayed the same banding patterns as the whole seeds for each cultivar. This indicates that the standardization of RAPD protocols for varietal identification testing of soybean seeds is feasible even when extreme differences in seed viability and vigor exist.
23433250|Although soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality deteriorates rapidly, there has been interest in storing seed beyond the first planting season. The effect of reducing summer warehouse storage temperatures on seed germination, vigor and field emergence during two carryover years of storage was evaluated. Seed lots with acceptable standard germination (> 80%), but variable levels of vigor, mechanical injury and seed infection by Phomopsis longicolla Hobbs were placed in uncontrolled warehouse storage at two locations (Kentucky and Indiana). Seed was sampled at three-month intervals for over two years and tested for germination and vigor (accelerated aging AA). Seventeen seed lots were moved from the warehouses to constant temperatures [13 (IN) or 16 (KY) C] as summer temperatures increased above these levels and returned to the warehouse when temperatures declined below the same level. Seed lots infected with P. longicolla increased in seed germination and vigor as fungal viability declined during the first six months of storage in all storage environments. All seed lots stored continuously in the warehouse maintained > 80% germination through 450 days of storage (one year carryover), but few had acceptable (> 80% AA) seed vigor. Reducing summer temperatures increased the seed vigor (2 to 54 percentage points) and field emergence (0 to 33 percentage points) of many seed lots. Most seed lots with > 80% AA germination initially (April, first year of storage) maintained adequate seed vigor (> 80% AA) and field emergence after one year of carryover storage. High initial levels of mechanical injury or seed infection by P. longicolla had little effect on rate of deterioration and storability compared to sound seed lots in all storage environments. Reducing summer temperatures may provide a practical, economic option for carryover soybean seed in warehouse storage.
23433252|Field emergence and several seed vigor tests were used to evaluate the quality of different canola seed lots. Four seed lots representing two winter and two spring cultivars were aged at 42 C at various time intervals to provide six sub-lots with a range of seed vigor. The six sub-lots were evaluated for seed quality using the following tests: cold, cold soil, conductivity, first count germination, standard germination and field emergence. Aging seeds for 48 h at 42 C followed by germination for 7 d at 22 C was the best method for the accelerated aging test. Soaking 200 uninjured, untreated seeds for 16 h at 22 C in 50 ml of distilled water was suitable for the conductivity test. The cold soil test was most successful in separating seed lots of different quality when seeds were planted on moist blotter paper, covered with soil and pre-treated for 5 d at 5 C before germinating at 22 C for 5 d. Incubation for 5 d at 5 C without soil provided the best pre-germination treatment for the cold test. Temperatures of 22, 25 or 20/30 C (alternating) in the standard germination test did not significantly differ in influencing germination results. Significant correlations were found between the results of all vigor tests and field emergence for all seed lots.
23433247|The purpose of this work was to test the accuracy of the oven method, capacitance meter and water activity measurements to assess the water status of intact pelleted and film-coated seeds in comparison with noncoated seeds. Seeds from one lettuce (Lactuca sativa) lot and one onion (Allium cepa) lot were pelleted by six commercial sources. A second lot of onion and one lot of cucumber (Cucumis sativus) were film coated by one company resulting in three different coating formulations. A noncoated control was used as a comparison for each lot. Neither the oven method nor the capacitance meter were able to accurately determine the actual seed moisture content from intact pelleted seeds. The oven method underestimated the actual seed moisture content from film-coated seeds, while the capacitance readings provided similar or slightly lower values for film coated than for noncoated seeds. Overall, water activity measurements provided accurate determinations of water status from six pellet sources and three film coating formulations for two crops. The seed moisture content could be calculated from the water activity values with equations from the moisture isotherm for each crop. In conclusion, water activity measurements were a versatile method of assessing water status of coated and noncoated seeds on a routine basis.
23433246|Chile seed is known to have poor germination in the field at temperatures near 15C. Use of seed pre-treatments enhances germination, however, it is not known whether a combination of a priming solution plus gibberellin will have a synergistic effect on seed germination of chile. Therefore seeds of 'Tam Veracruz' and 'Early Jalapeo' chile were primed for five days at 23C in solutions of 1) 0.3 M NaCl; 2) 4 g Pro-Gibb T/g seed; 3) 0.3 M NaCl + 4 g Pro-Gibb T/g seed; or 4) 18 mOhm H2O. Germination tests were run in petri dishes and flats of potting media in 23C and 15C incubators. Final germination percentage (FGP) and the germination rate (MDG) were calculated. Over 70% of the seeds primed in H2O or Pro-Gibb T alone germinated during the priming process while seeds treated with NaCl or NaCl + Pro-Gibb T did not germinate. Under these conditions, Pro-Gibb T cannot be used alone as a seed pre-treatment. Both the NaCl treatment and the NaCl + Pro-Gibb T improved the germination rate compared to the control. The combination of priming plus gibberellin had a faster germination rate than when priming was used alone, especially at 15C. Seed priming plus Pro-Gibb T can improve the emergence rate and overall performance of chile seed at less than optimal temperatures.
23433253|Comparisons among the AOSA and ISTA purity testing methods for annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lamarck), perennial ryegrass (L. perenne Lamarck) and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreber), and a new method in which only the large sterile structures are removed were made by the AOSA Purity Subcommittee. Pure seed percentage, time consumption, numbers and types of seed unit attachments and amount of inert material recovered from the attachments were examined. All three methods achieved similar results for the nine seed lots tested. The new method produced nearly identical results to the AOSA method for all three species tested with a considerable time savings.
23433251|Seed dormancy exists in many of the 250 species of Penstemon, including Penstemon penlandii (an endangered species). These studies were conducted to develop a better understanding of dormancy in this species and provide protocols to determine the germination requirements of P. penlandii. P. penlandii seeds were collected at two locations near Kremmling, CO on 3 and 20 Aug. 1993 to obtain seeds of different maturity. Many dormancy breaking procedures were compared including prechilling, hydrogen peroxide, liquid nitrogen, hand clipping, mechanical scarification, acid scarification, gibberellic acid treatments, ultraviolet light exposure, light and dark exposures, and immersion in boiling water. The germination and speed of germination results in individual germinators suggested that 1530C gave the highest percentage germination for P. penlandii after mechanical scarification, however there were no significant differences between 1525C and various other germination temperatures. Scarification rates of 30psi for 10 to 20 sec produced highest rates of germination and emergence in laboratory and greenhouse tests. Laboratory germinations at 1530C of mechanically scarified seeds were highly correlated with seedling emergence in the greenhouse. Submerging seeds in aerated 1mM GA3 for 24h, placing seed on water moistened blotters at 1530C, and hand scarifying ungerminated seeds after 14d followed by an additional week for germination provided results which were similar to hand scarification, mechanical scarification, and tetrazolium viability. This germination procedure has been adopted by the Association of Official Seed Analysts for inclusion in the "Rules for Testing Seed".
23433255|The saturated salt accelerated aging (SSAA) test is a modification of the accelerated aging test protocol where salts are substituted for water to control the relative humidity of the aging environment. This process reduces the rate of water absorption into small-seeded crops thereby reducing their speed of deterioration. The purpose of this study was to examine the reproducibility of SSAA results for four pansy (Viola tricolor L.) (raw and primed) and two impatiens (Impatiens walleriana Hooker f.) seed lots using a referee format. Eight laboratories participated in the referee and all seed lots were aged with saturated NaCl at 41C for 72 h for pansy and 48 h for impatiens. Seeds were tested for germination before and following SSAA at 7 and 14 days. Similar standard germination results were obtained for the eight laboratories after 14 days. Seven of the eight laboratories produced similar SSAA results after 14 days for pansy and correctly identified the ranking of seed lot performance for impatiens. Primed pansy seeds were more prone to deterioration in the SSAA test. These findings indicate that standardization of the SSAA test is possible.
23433595|The germination capability of freshly (before drying) harvested seeds of common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) was improved by air-drying when seeds were harvested at or after seed physiological maturity. Low osmotic potential may substitute for air-drying to improve seed germination. Field and laboratory experiments were conducted to study the effect of low osmotic potential or cold treatments prior to ambient-drying on seed dormancy and germination of common vetch seeds harvested at different maturity stages. Pods were harvested at four stages of maturity: 1) full-size (FS) seeds, 2) greenish-yellow (GY) pod, 3) yellow (Y) pod, and 4) brown (B) pod. At each maturity stage, freshly harvested seeds were exposed to three drying treatments for 4 d prior to air-drying at ambient conditions: 1) low osmotic potential (-1.2 MPa; osmotic), 2) air-drying at 5 C (cold), 3) air-drying at ambient conditions (24  2 C; ambient). Seed standard germination was measured on freshly harvested seeds and 4 d after imposing the drying treatments. Osmotic treatment improved seed germination at 4 d compared with the cold and ambient treatments for seeds harvested at the GY, Y, and B stages. Osmotic treatment improved seed germination of air-dried seeds at the Y stage. The germination of the air-dried seeds was higher than those seeds dried for 4 d at ambient or cold temperature, suggesting that air-drying was a prerequisite for improving seed germination. However, the osmotic treatment improved seed germination without the need for air-drying when seeds were harvested at maturity (brown pods), due to the reduction in dormant seeds.
23433594|Seed germination and seedling growth of A. indica were affected by seed size and seeding depth. Large seeds germinated earlier with 95% total germination compared to small seeds with only 57% germination. Also, longer shoot-root lengths were observed in plants from large seeds. In seed orientation uniform germination and seedling growth were recorded. No significant impacts was recorded in different seed orientation on seed germination as well as seedling growth. Seedling morphology did not differ much among treatments. Similarly, seeds sown in the upper soil layer germinated more rapidly and proved better growth compared to sowing at 3 and 5 cm depths. Mean germination time, germination index, shoot and root growth, root collar diameter and number of leaves followed the similar pattern.
23433590|Experiments were conducted to develop vigor tests for evaluating the establishment of open-pollinated Argentine canola, Brassica napus L., in conventional tillage (CT), minimum tillage (MT) and zero tillage (ZT). Sixteen seed lots of an open-pollinated cultivar were produced from swathing experiments in 2000 and 2001. Seed lots were assessed in 2003 in the standard germination test (SGT), accelerated aging test (AAT), controlled deterioration test (CDT), pre-chill test (PCT) and electrical conductivity test (ECT). Green seed content and 1000-seed weight were also determined. Establishment of the seed lots was evaluated at three sites with CT, two sites with MT and one site with ZT. The six sites also differed in soil texture and rainfall. Establishment averaged 7579% in CT, 4256% in MT and 17% in ZT. Establishment was lowest at sites with reduced tillage, heavy-textured clay and below-average rainfall. Thousand-seed weights, along with germination in the SGT, AAT, CDT and PCT were positively correlated with establishment in CT and MT but not in ZT. Depending on the site, establishment improved by 811% with each 1.0 g increase in 1000-seed weight. Germination in the SGT, AAT and CDT provided a better indication of establishment in CT and MT than germination in the PCT. Establishment improved by 1.42.4% with each 1.0% increase in germination in the SGT. Green seed content and conductivity were negatively correlated with establishment at all sites. Establishment declined 23% with each 1% increase in green seed and 10 S cm-1 g-1 increase in conductivity after soaking seeds for 24 h. Conductivity after 4 or 24 h soaking provided the best indication of stand establishment at most field sites. The effects of swathing time on the quality, germination and vigor of canola seed lots are also discussed.
23433592|Seed proteins for five species (Phaseolus vulgaris, P. acutifolius P. grayanus, P. lunatus and P. maculatus) were analyzed electrophoretically to assess genetic diversity between and within these species. A total of 31 subunits were resolved by SDS-PAGE. Each of the analyzed samples had a unique profile, although a few subunits were highly conserved. Analytical results of SDS-PAGE of seed protein demonstrated the plausibility of the SDS-PAGE marker system for organizing genetic diversity in the genus Phaseolus. It revealed the genetic relation between P. lunatus and P. maculatus and confirmed their monophyletic origin. It also showed the broad genetic diversity in P. acutifolius germplasm and suggested a gene flow among the parental entities of its accessions. Jaccard similarity index, cluster analysis and factor analysis revealed that P. grayanus had a high polymorphism with P. lunatus and P. maculatus, and P. acutifolius respectively, suggesting unidirectional introgression among them. The genetic distance between P. vulgaris and other species is discussed.
23433591|The requirements for and results from priming lettuce seed can vary according to age, vigor, and thermosensitivity of the seed. This investigation determined the optimal hydrothermal timing for priming lettuce seeds, independent of cultivar, seed lot, and storage using an inexpensive gel assay for the enzyme endo--mannanase (EBM). Two lettuce cultivars 'Bennett' and 'Connick' and two seed lots of each were used. Seeds were primed in an aerated -1.2 MPa polyethylene glycol 8000 (PEG) solution at 15 C in constant light, and were sampled at 24 h, 48 h, or 72 h. Enzyme activity for each lot at each priming duration was determined by a single-seed gel assay for EBM. At 36 C, germination of primed seeds was over 90%, while non-primed seeds germinated at 40%. EBM activity was non-detectable in dry seeds and in less than 5% of the seeds primed for 24 h. After priming for 48 h or 72 h, 30% or more of the micropylar section of the whole seed exhibited EBM activity, regardless of seed lot or cultivar. Since the percentage of seeds exhibiting EBM in the whole endosperm after 48 h or 72 h of priming were similar but total percent and rate of germination at 36 C were optimal after 48 h of priming, 48 h was considered the optimal hydrothermal priming time. EBM activity was observed in 25% of seeds at 48 h priming duration. Therefore, it was proposed if at least 25% of seeds exhibit EBM activity, optimal hydrothermal time is achieved. The EBM test was estimated to cost $11.56 per 1000 seeds. This price does not include facilities or equipment costs. Determining priming time with the EBM test provides a method to improve optimization of the priming procedure for endospermic seeds such as lettuce.
23433589|Seed moisture content constantly changes in relationship to the temperature and relative humidity of the air surrounding the seed. Because seed moisture content is important in determining seed longevity and many other aspects of seed quality, this report emphasizes the properties of water, the types of water bonding in a seed, and how water is attracted to seed compounds. These relationships are examined with respect to various phases found in equilibrium moisture content curves (isotherms) for seeds. Understanding these factors permits greater insights into seed physiology and performance.
23433593|The fungal endophyte Neotyphodium coenophialum is known to enhance tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses in grasses. However, most endophyte-infected fescue contains toxic ergot alkaloids, which can induce a fescue toxicosis syndrome when consumed by ruminants and horses. Recently, new tall fescue cultivars infected with endophyte strains that do not produce toxic ergot alkaloids have been developed. The objectives of this study were to determine whether a commercially available ELISA kit for detecting ergot alkaloid (ergovaline) in plant tillers would detect alkaloids in tall fescue seeds, to determine whether mechanical scarification or crushing of tall fescue seed would facilitate alkaloid detection by ELISA, and to determine whether ergovaline alkaloid detection by ELISA was consistent with the HPLC method. Cultivars included in the comparison were Jesup MaxQ, a proprietary tall fescue cultivar containing endophytes that do not produce ergovaline, and KY-31, a conventional cultivar containing endophytes that produce ergovaline. Seed lots of Jesup MaxQ and KY-31 had similar endophyte infection rates of 90% and 94%, respectively, as measured by the microscopic method. Percentage seeds with ergovaline in scarified, crushed, and whole seeds were 87.5%, 91%, and 7.5%, respectively, for KY-31, and 0.5%, 0.5%, and 0%, respectively, for Jesup MaxQ, based on ELISA. The ergovaline concentration of Jesup MaxQ was < 10 ppb compared to 5290 ppb in KY-31 as determined by HPLC. The results of this study indicate that the ELISA kit was a viable alternative to HPLC for detecting the presence of ergovaline producing endophytes in tall fescue seeds. Scarifying or gently crushing the seeds were suitable techniques for extracting alkaloids from seeds.
23433038|Post-harvest soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed conditioning operations can inflict mechanical damage to the seed. The objectives of this study were to 1) quantify the amount of mechanical damage at each impact point during seed conditioning and 2) evaluate the effect of the bean ladder in minimizing mechanical damage and improving seed quality during conditioning. Soybean seed from a single seed lot of cultivar H6686 were loaded into two storage bins, one with a ladder and the other without a ladder. Seed were sampled at five stages during receiving and nine stages during cleaning and bagging and evaluated for moisture content, germination, and percentage of cracked seed coats (CSC). The seed in the bin filled with the bean ladder had a significantly lower proportion of CSC and significantly higher germination than seed in the bin without a ladder. Seed sampled from the bin without the ladder had a consistently higher percentage of CSC at most drop heights; however, the difference was significant only at the greatest height, 25.1 m. Seed sampled from the bin with the ladder exhibited significantly higher germination than seed from the bin without the ladder at drop heights of 16.8 m or greater. Seed removed from the bin with a ladder had significantly higher germination at the end of the cleaning and bagging phase than the seed from the bin without a ladder. The bean ladder helped reduce mechanical damage during the receiving phase and maintained a higher level of seed quality at the end of the cleaning and bagging phase compared to the bin without a ladder.
23433039|A simple method for the precise orientation of very small specimens for paraffin sectioning is described. The orientation is accomplished under magnification as the paraffin solidifies along a controlled temperature gradient.
23433037|The grains of Triticum aestivum (L.), c.v. HD-2204, were imbibed in 10-6 or 10-8 M aqueous solutions of IAA; 4-ClIAA; 5-ClIAA; 6-ClIAA; 7-ClIAA; 4,6-Cl2IAA or 4,7-Cl2IAA for 6, 12 or 24 hours and transferred to distilled water for germination up to 96 hours. Monochloroindole-3-acetic acids, irrespective of their concentration and duration of soaking, improved germination (%) and the activity of -amylase, noted at three durations of soaking. Dichloroindole-3-acetic acids were as effective as IAA. Twelve hours soaking in 4-ClIAA proved best but was closely followed by 7-ClIAA.
23433032|Seed identification manuals are used by seed analysts as references to identify seeds. However, the success of this task is limited because such manuals only supply two-dimensional seed photographs and diagrammatic representations. In this study, a new, three-dimensional representation of seeds is described to supplement these traditional photographs and drawings. QuickTime VR is a promising method for viewing three-dimensional objects on a computer screen. Unlike traditional computer media such as static images or movie clips, it permits the user to rotate the object and view it from various angles on the computer screen, giving the viewer the sense of examining a hand-held object. In this study, an interactive computer medium is developed using QuickTime VR technology to allow the user to experience the sensation of examining actual seeds. This approach allows examination of virtual seeds from any angle, permitting more accurate identification by seed analysts and serving as an excellent instructional medium for those who study seeds.
23433036|A common nondestructive method to obtain filled seed is to place them in water and select the seeds that sink. We used two techniques to evaluate this method in determining native juniper seed fill. Seeds were placed in water and separated into groups that sank and floated. The fill status of the two groups was determined by opening and visually inspecting the contents of 1000 seeds from each group and by viewing x-ray films of 1935 seeds that sank. Though more filled seeds sank than floated (2 = 313.72, p<0.05) and the number of filled seeds observed in opened versus x-rayed seeds did not differ (2 = 1.2281, p> 0.05), approximately 30% of seeds that sank were not filled. This error can be attributed to empty seeds that sank having thickened coats. Use of this nondestructive method in conjunction with x-ray eliminated the error and allowed selection of 100% filled seed.
23433034|The seed trade in the United States markets an ever-growing list of native species in response to increased demand from horticultural and revegetation users. Proper germination timing is critical for these wildland-adapted species and is often regulated through various forms of seed dormancy. Significant within-species variability in seed germination behavior is common for broadly adapted species of the Intermountain West (USA). High levels of intra-specific variability in germination behavior make selection of a single, best germination test problematic. Protocols employing multiple tests can be effective in determining both seed viability and dormancy for variable species. The ability to deliver meaningful seed quality information for native species will be enhanced as a multi-method philosophy is further embraced and utilized by seed analysts and their organizations.
23433028|The challenges facing the traditional seed analyst today are highly technical and complex. A better understanding of this profession can be obtained by examining the knowledge and practical skills the analyst must possess. The environment that surrounds the seed analyst, including economics, is an important factor that must be addressed if this profession is to obtain parity with other scientific professions. Examples of the value of the commodity the analysis report represents and the environment surrounding the analyst performing the analyses are reviewed.
23433040|Paraffin sectioning of hard or brittle plant material may often be facilitated by reimbibition of the tissue after embedding in paraffin; however, when sectioning seeds, reimbibition may cause the specimen to break out of the paraffin. If the reimbibition is carried out at a temperature just below the melting point of the paraffin, the tissue will not break loose of the paraffin and good sections may easily be obtained.
23433033|Seeds of finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn. var. KAT/FM-1) and those of Amaranth (Amaranthus hybridus (L.) ssp. cruentus (L.) Thell.) were stored in hermetically sealed, laminated aluminum foil packets, for up to 252 days at different constant conditions, which included combinations of temperatures ranging from 15 C to 40 C and moisture contents ranging from 5.3% to 17.3% (fresh weight basis). Seeds were sampled from storage for viability determination at different intervals depending on the storage regimens. Viability decline during storage was generally rapid at higher temperature and/or moisture content combinations. The effect of storage conditions on viability was quantified using viability equations. For each of the two species, the estimated periods for viability to fall to 50% (p50 value) decreased with an increase in the storage temperature and/or moisture content. Viability constants for each of the two species were obtained and used to predict longevity at various non-extreme hypothetical storage conditions. At comparative storage temperature and moisture content combinations, seeds of the two species differed considerably in longevity. The constants obtained in the present study could be applied in predicting storage life of seeds of the two species, especially under short to medium-term storage conditions.
23433030|Although the accelerated aging (AA) test is recommended to measure soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) seed vigor, a uniform AA procedure has not been developed for testing corn (Zea mays L.) seed. This study evaluated the effect of aging time, temperature and seed treatment on corn seed germination and related AA results to cold test germination and field emergence. Forty grams of fungicide treated and untreated seed from four seed lots across two hybrids were aged at 41 and 45C for 72, 96 and 120 hours. Aging treated seed for up to 120 hours at 41C caused no reduction in germination, however, significant reductions in germination occurred after 96 hours for untreated seeds. Both treated and untreated seed aged at 45C showed significant reductions in germination after 72 hours. Two AA treatments (41C, 96 hours, 45C, 72 hours) which gave the best separation in seed lot vigor were compared to tray cold test germination across many additional seed lots and several hybrids. Both AA procedures were highly correlated with each other, however, the germination levels were lower using the 45C, 72 hour treatment. Neither AA procedure related well to cold test germination for treated seed. Standard germination, AA (45C, 72 h) and cold test germination were related to field emergence in nine experiments across three years. A field emergence index (FEI, mean field emergence/mean standard germination  100) for each planting date showed a range in field conditions from severe stress (FEI = <65) to near ideal (FEI = 97). The prediction accuracy (proportion of seed lots in each experiment that had 70 or 80% field emergence) was high for standard germination only in near ideal field conditions. As stress increased in the seedbed (FEI 75 to 90), at a minimum acceptable vigor level of 80%, both AA and cold test accurately predicted field emergence. Thus, the seed industry may want to consider both tests when screening genotypes for maximum field performance.
23433031|Comparisons among the AOSA purity testing method for hard fescue (Festuca brevipila R. Tracey) and sheep fescue (F. ovina L.), and three other more efficient methods were made by the AOSA Purity Subcommittee. Percent pure seed, number and type of seed unit attachments, quantity of inert matter recovered from attachments, time required for inert recovery, and laboratory performance were examined. Two alternate methods produced nearly identical purity results to the AOSA Method, with reduced analysis time requirements and no significant differences.
23433035|The number of strong seedlings in germination tests of acid delinted cottonseed [Gossypium hirsutum (L.) and Gossypium barbadense (L.)] after three days at 30C were compared to cool germination test results. Three comparisons were conducted, two with G. hirsutum L., (30 and 24 seed lots) and one with G. barbadense L., (seven seed lots). In the thirty seed lot comparison with G. hirsutum L., the 3-day count averaged 78.4% and cool germination test averaged 75.3%. Sixty percent of the 30 seed lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. In the second comparison of twenty four seed lots with G. hirsutum L., the 3-day count averaged 81.5% and cool germination averaged 81.4%. Ninety-one percent of the seed lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. In the seven seed lot comparison with G. barbadense L., the 3-day count averaged 81.0% and the cool germination test averaged 79.5%. Six of the seven lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. These data suggest that counting strong normal seedlings after three days at 30C may be an acceptable alternative vigor test for cottonseed where facilities and equipment for a cool gemination test are not available.
23433029|Changes in seed testing laboratories over the last 10 to 20 years require more from traditional seed analysts. New genetically modified seeds are tested using a variety of chemical, morphological, and genetic assays. Seed technology is becoming a profession with a definite career path, educational preparation, and aptitudes for success. In addition to doing routine seed testing, genetic purity analysts are involved in quality assurance of production processes, customer complaints, lab accreditation, and plant breeding programs. Analysts can enhance their profession both personally by continuing education, for example and in societies or associations by standardizing test methods or certification standards. The SCST is forming a new membership category of Registered Genetic Technologists to recognize genetic purity analysts. New tests, industry consolidation, higher customer expectations, and changes in the work environment all challenge the analyst to evolve professionally.
23433049|Breeding and quality assurance programs need accurate and affordable methods to test for the presence of intended and unintended genes in transgenic cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) varieties. The objectives of this paper were to describe in detail the Roundup Ready (RR) Rolled Towel Bioassay procedure for cotton planting seed and demonstrate the reliability of this test in identifying the intended RR trait in cotton seed. Seedlings were evaluated as susceptible if they have a shortened hypocotyl-radicle length with characteristic black lesions on the hypocotyls. Results using the RR Rolled Towel Bioassay were comparable to the RR lateral flow strip tests in 678 compared seed samples. The RR Rolled Towel Bioassay is an accurate and cost effective way to detect the presence of the RR trait in cotton seed.
23433054|A method of predicting the deterioration of corn (Zea mays L.) seed during storage would benefit seed producers and the seed industry. This investigation evaluated the ability of an alternative model and initial seed quality tests to predict changes in germination of inbred corn seed during storage in controlled environments. Eight fungicide treated seed lots with low levels of mechanical injury, high germination and a range in seed vigor were stored in sealed foil packets in six constant temperature and seed moisture environments: 20 C, 14%; 30 C, 12 and 14%; and 40 C, 10, 12 and 14%. Seed was sampled at regular intervals and tested for germination and moisture. Prior to storage the initial quality of each seed lot was determined by standard germination, cold test, accelerated germination and conductivity. In addition, the rate of deterioration and time to 50% loss of germination (P50) were estimated using a rapid aging test (40 C, 15% seed moisture). The model accurately predicted the time to decline to P50 in three storage environments (40 C, 14%; 40 C, 12%; 30 C, 14%), however, as P50 increased in improved storage conditions (40 C, 10%; 30 C, 12% and 20 C, 14%), the predicted P50 was much larger than the observed P50, which limits the usefulness of the alternative model. The P50 from the rapid aging test was significantly correlated with P50 in all storage environments. The accelerated aging test, conducted at 45 C, 72 h, was the only measure of initial seed vigor that was significantly correlated to P50 in most storage environments. Thus, rapid aging and accelerated aging can be used prior to storage to select seed lots with slow or rapid deterioration potential.
23433050|Woolly cupgrass, a weed species new to Canada, was found in Quebec in 2000. This is a potentially serious weed in the corn and soybean belt of southern Ontario and Quebec. Seed analysts are advised to watch for seeds of this species when conducting analyses. A brief history of the weed in North America is presented, along with illustrations and descriptions to aid in identification.
23433053|Electrical impedance spectroscopy techniques were developed for use on single seeds of snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) to assess and predict their germination potential. These seeds were aged in a manner that provided a range of seed qualities for testing. The test protocol established was noninvasive, requires careful moisture content regulation and can be completed in 24 hours. Two distinct dispersions were observed of which a low frequency dispersion correlated best with seed quality, and centered between 9.5 and 13.4 kHz with a real resistive component between 7 and 18 k. The low resistive values corresponded to seeds of low quality compared with seeds having high values. The Voigt impedance model represented the data well enough to provide parameters that could predict germination with an accuracy of 0.93 (ROC). An ROC (receiver operating characteristic) of 0.5 is simply a prediction by chance, while a value of 1.0 would indicate a perfect prediction with no false negatives or false positives.
23433048|This study was conducted to assess the efficacy of different vigor tests to evaluate physiological potential of tomato (Lycopersicon lycopersicum L.) seeds. Five seed lots of cultivars 'Debora Plus' and 'Bruna' were subjected to the standard germination, greenhouse seedling emergence, electrical conductivity, potassium leachate, accelerated aging, saturated salt accelerated aging and controlled deterioration tests. Results indicated that both accelerated aging procedures and controlled deterioration tests were the most efficient for evaluating tomato seed vigor, allowing the identification of different levels of seed quality. The potassium leachate test was a promising option primarily to identify tomato seed lots of lower physiological quality in a considerably reduced evaluation time. The electrical conductivity test was a less sensitive vigor test for tomato seeds since the evaluation of the release of electrolytes from the seeds was a less precise seed quality parameter. These results provide useful information regarding the assessment of tomato seed vigor and the identification of the saturated salt accelerated aging and potassium leachate tests as new alternatives in successful seed quality control programs.
23433052|Gibberellic acid is the natural inducer of the activity of -amylase, however, the presence of kinetin (an inducer of nitrate reductase activity), at an elevated level, was expected to be felt in the process of protein synthesis and the germination. Therefore, the grains of Hordeum vulgare (L) cv. PL-172 were soaked in aqueous solutions (10-6 M) of gibberellic acid and/or kinetin for 6, 12 or 24 hours. The treatment improved percent germination of the grains and the activity of -amylase, irrespective of the hormone and the soaking duration. However, the best response was generated in the grains soaked in gibberellic acid for 12 hours where germination and the level of the enzyme activity increased by 156% and 90% respectively, over the control.
23433046|Seed germination requirements of white horehound (Marrubium vulgare L.) were investigated to improve agronomic knowledge of this species and allow its cultivation as a medicinal plant. Fresh seeds of white horehound were positively photoblastic and capable of germinating throughout the temperature range examined (1040 C), with highest percent germination at 3035 C. In this range of constant temperatures, over half the seeds remained dormant. Dormancy breaking was achieved by incubating seeds at alternating temperatures. With increasing range of temperature fluctuation, seed dormancy decreased to the point of abolishing the light requirement for germination. Far-red light inhibited germination. Germination was inhibited proportionately into depth of burial in peat-perlite. However, incubation of buried seeds in alternating temperatures in dark attenuated this inhibition. In conclusion, our germination tests evidenced that temperature fluctuations of the substrate represent the crucial environmental parameter for the germination and emergence of buried seeds. Consequently, the typical thermal fluctuations of spring appear to be suitable for the agronomic propagation of this species.
23433044|The dependence of seed storage life (longevity) on temperature and moisture content can be quantified and predicted using the seed viability equation. Survival data during storage of seeds of two varieties each of delphinium (Delphinium elatum L.) and salvia (Salvia splendens F.) at two temperatures (20 and 30 C) and five relative humidities (33, 43, 53, 62, and 75%) were used to determine the constants of the seed viability equation. Normal seedling or radicle emergence scoring criteria for germination tests to assess seed viability were also compared. For salvia seeds, both criteria gave closely correlated results, while normal seedling counts were more reliable for delphinium seeds. Our results confirm the applicability of the seed viability equation for quantifying seed storage behavior, and provide values for the constants of the seed viability equation for two ornamental flower species.
23433051|Seed vigor tests must be standardized before they can be accepted by seed testing associations. The primary objective of these two referees was to determine the level of variability that occurs within and among seed laboratories when conducting the accelerated aging (AA) vigor test for soybean seed. The nine AOSA and SCST laboratories that participated in these referees all had previous experience with AA testing and the equipment needed (water jacketed chamber) to conduct the test. All laboratories agreed to conduct both the standard germination (SG) and AA tests on replicated soybean seed samples that were coded for testing so that the identity of the seed lots was unknown in a blind referee. Only seed lots with acceptable standard germination, but a range in seed vigor were selected for the referees. There was greater variability among and within laboratories for AA germination than for standard germination, which was expected because of the lower germination scores and many more abnormal seedlings. The variability for AA was much greater in 1999 than in 2000 because of poor calibration of aging chamber temperature in three laboratories. Uniform AA results were achieved within and among seed laboratories in 2000. The data sets from these two referees were used by the ISTA Statistics committee to establish tolerance levels to be used for the AA test of seed vigor for soybean seed.
23433045|Phenolic acids are natural compounds in several plants, which can influence cell morphology, physiology and metabolism. It has also been observed that these compounds can affect seed germination. This study evaluated the influence of -hydroxybenzoic acid on seed germination and vigor, and quantified the total lipids and total soluble proteins in soybean seedlings. Seeds of the cultivar BR-37 were planted on paper towels at different concentrations (0; 0.1; 1.0; 5.0; 10.0 mM) of -hydroxybenzoic acid and germinated at 25C for 8 days. Evaluations were made for: germination, radicle and hypocotyl length, as well as fresh and dry biomass. The lipid contents of cotyledons and proteins in the three components (radicle, hypocotyl and cotyledons) of seedlings were assessed after 7 days at 25C. The results showed that there were no significant differences in cumulative seed germination (radicle emergence) in the presence of the compound studied. However, the percentage of normal seedlings at the final (8 days) count declined sharply from 70% (control) to 7.1% at 10.0mM -hydroxybenzoic acid. A significant reduction in the length, fresh and dry biomass of radicles was observed as concentration increased. A decrease of lipid content was found in cotyledons, and an increase of protein content was shown at high concentrations of the phenolic compound. The results showed that -hydroxybenzoic acid negatively affects not only seed germination, seedling growth and development, but also the metabolism of lipids and proteins.
23433047|Germination tests for seeds of many species require moist prechill at 25 C to break dormancy. In practice, however, seeds are sometimes prechilled at temperatures as high as 10 C. To document the importance of prechill temperature and duration, seeds of 12 wildflower species native to Utah (Balsamorhiza sagittata, Castilleja applegatei, C. chromosa, C. flava, C. linearifolia, C. rhexifolia, C. scabrida, Cleome serrulata, Pedicularis groenlandica, Penstemon cyananthus, P. eatonii and P. sepalulus) were subjected to a series of laboratory germination treatments with 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks of prechill at 1, 3, 5, and 7 C followed by 4 weeks of incubation at 10/20 C. Viability evaluation for each species was estimated using a tetrazolium test. Seeds of all species were dormant without prechill, and very few of the collections showed a significant response to 4-week prechill. Prechill at 7 C was largely ineffective and only C. linearifolia and C. serrulata responded to prechill at 5 C. Seeds of P. cyananthus and C. flava responded positively to prechill, but 3 C resulted in slightly higher germination than did 1 C. P. eatonii and P. sepalulus required more than 8 weeks of prechill at 1 or 3 C for germination to exceed 35%. For seeds of B. sagittata, C. scabrida and C. chromosa, germination response increased with increasing prechill duration up to 16 weeks. Finally, C. rhexifolia, C. applegatei and P. groenlandica had maximum germination percentages < 40%, regardless of prechill temperature or duration. Discrepancies between maximum germination percentages and total viability indicate that prechill for periods longer than 16 weeks may be necessary for many seeds to germinate. Because such long periods are impractical for seed testing, tetrazolium staining or germination tests that include the use of dormancy-breaking chemicals should be considered.
23433507|There are seven North American and three introduced European Glyceria species growing in western North America, yet distinguishing among the species is morphologically challenging. As contaminants in agronomic grass seed lots, the introduced species G. declinata and G. fluitans are undesirable domestically, while North American species are undesirable in seed grown for international trade. In order to distinguish between the western North American and introduced European Glyceria species we designed PCR, Taqman SNP, and DNA sequencing assays. The PCR assays are co-dominant markers in which a larger sized amplification product is detected in G. declinata, G. fluitans, and G. fluitans-like G. occidentalis than is detected among the other species. The Taqman SNP assay shows VIC hybridization signal for G. declinata and FAM hybridization signal for G. fluitans and G. fluitans-like G. occidentalis. DNA sequencing of the chloroplast trnK region and the nuclear ribosomal ITS-1 region provide several SNPs that identify each of the individual species. However, Glyceria occidentalis samples contain chloroplast and ITS-1 sequences identical to either G. leptostachya or G. fluitans, thus currently cannot be distinguished with DNA markers.
23433503|Desiccation sensitivity is the main characteristic of recalcitrant seeds that poses limitations to practices such as storage and direct seeding. This study investigated the effect of parent tree, seed size, and desiccation time on seed variables, seedling growth, and starch thermal properties for Quercus macrocarpa. We expected to find an effect of parent tree, but not for the seed size due to narrow size ranges available for the study. We hypothesized that desiccation time would negatively affect seed variables and seedling growth, while starch thermal properties would also be altered. Two parent trees with distinctive pericarp characteristics (Type-1 with tougher/darker pericarp than Type-2), and two seed sizes (19.5 and 20.5 mm in diameter) for each parent were selected. Seeds were placed to desiccate in a room at ambient relative humidity, and temperature > 21 C, with seeds being sampled every two days. Parent tree and seed size affected almost all seed variables and the onset of starch gelatinization, with larger values for larger seeds. Parent tree also affected seedling growth, with larger values for the Type-1. Desiccation time negatively affected the majority of the studied variables. Respiration decreased with desiccation time, with greater values for larger seeds. Our results suggest that practices such as direct seeding could be enhanced by proper parent tree and seed size selection, since those variables could delay the deleterious effects of desiccation. Starch thermal properties also proved to be indicators in tracking metabolic alterations during desiccation.
23433504|Egusi melon Colocynthis citrullus L. is an important food crop in Nigeria and other West African countries where it is cultivated for its seed that is rich in oil and protein. This study was carried out to estimate the components of variation in seed moisture, fat, ash, protein, and fiber. Eight inbred lines of egusi melon cultivars (NS-B, NS-W, NS-E, NS-R, Ov-1, Sewere, W.SE and B.SE) were used. Crosses were made with these inbreds and F1s, F2s and BCs were obtained. The result revealed extensive genetic variation in the seed components. Percentages of protein and ash had higher coefficient of variation than the other components measured indicating higher variability. High broad sense heritability was recorded in all seed components implying the potential for improvement through selection. This was confirmed by the high expected genetic advance in selection recorded.
23433505|Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg.) seeds are difficult to germinate in the laboratory and nursery due to multiple dormancies. The response of Rocky Mountain juniper to different seed conditioning and germination treatments were examined. The viability of the original seedlot was increased through seed sizing and weight separation. Following this, 21 germination treatments were tested to determine their effectiveness in promoting germination. Fifteen new germination treatments were evaluated and compared with the six best germination treatments cited in the literature. Seed sizing did not affect seed viability significantly, but weight separation increased viability about 7 to 10% for medium to heavy weight classes. Three germination treatments yielded the highest germination ranging from 45 to 55%. A warm stratification period followed by a cold stratification period produced the best germination; increasing the warm stratification from 8 to 12 and 16 weeks improved germination. The best germination treatment, proposed by Clark Fleege (Manager, USDA Forest Service Bessey Nursery), was a 3 d water soak, followed by 16 weeks warm stratification and then 13 weeks cold stratification. Reducing the warm stratification period by 4 weeks was the second best germination treatment. The third and fourth best germination treatments were Van Haverbeke and Comer's 90 min peroxide soak and a 6 d 10,000 ppm citric acid soak followed by warm and then cold stratification. The study shows that additional seed sizing and weight separation coupled with germination treatments are required to increase germination for Rocky Mountain juniper seeds.
23433506|Seeds of Rosmarinus officinalis L. (rosemary) exhibit slow and irregular germination. Improvement of germination rate and percentage may enable commercial propagation from seed instead of cuttings. To this aim, the effects of constant and alternating temperatures following cold stratification, incubation with GA3 under different temperature regimes, chemical scarification with sulfuric acid, and seed lot on the germination of rosemary seeds were studied. Prolonging the cold stratification period increased germination after 28 d (G28), and decreased days to 50% germination (T50). Temperature following cold stratification interacted with stratification period to increase germination rate. GA3 increased G28, and reduced T50, and the number of days between 10% and 90% germination (T90  T10). Temperature regime influenced all three parameters, but did not interact with GA3. Germination was greatest after 15 min exposure to H2SO4, while T50 decreased from 17.8 d in the untreated control to 11.5 d after 120 min exposure to H2SO4. Extract of rosemary seeds did not inhibit germination and growth of Lepidium sativum L. (garden cress) seedlings, indicating inhibitory chemicals in the rosemary seed coat are not likely to be responsible for germination irregularities in rosemary. Differences in percentage of filled seeds and embryo length may account for differences in germination among seed lots. Our study demonstrates multiple mechanisms are likely responsible for release from physiological dormancy and irregular germination in rosemary seeds.
23433510|Two sweet corn seed lots of each hybrid sh2 ('SWB 551' and 'Obsession') were primed by a non-osmotic method (drum priming) at 25 C for 6 h. During each cycle, 125 g of seeds were exposed to 6.0 mL of distilled water and then rotated in the drum for 1 h to ensure uniform absorption. After hydration, the seeds were incubated at 25 C for 0, 12, 24 and 36 h and dried under ambient conditions (25 C, 50% RH). Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) evaluations were compared with standard germination and seedling emergence tests. The results obtained in this study confirmed that SVIS is a practical, valuable approach to evaluating the efficacy of priming treatments in sweet corn seeds when using a vigor index ratio of 70% growth index and 30% uniformity index for evaluating seed lots considered commercially valuable, but possessing low vigor. Dois lotes de sementes de milho doce de cada hbrido sh2 ('SWB 551' e 'Obsession') foram submetidos ao condicionamento fisiolgico por um mtodo no osmtico (mtodo do tambor) a 25 C por 6 h. Durante cada ciclo, 125 g de sementes foram expostas a 6,0 mL de gua destilada e em seguida o tambor foi rotacionado por 1 h para proporcionar uniformidade de absoro. Aps a hidratao as sementes foram incubadas a 25 C por 0, 12, 24 e 36 h e secadas sob condies ambiente (25 C, 50% UR). Os resultados das avaliaes realizadas pelo Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) foram comparados com os observados nos testes de germinao e de emergncia de plntula. Os resultados obtidos neste estudo confirmaram que o SVIS  um mtodo prtico e valioso para a avaliao da eficcia do condicionamento fisiolgico de sementes de milho doce utilizando-se o ndice de vigor composto por 70% do ndice de crescimento e 30% do ndice de uniformidade em lotes comercialmente aceitos, mas apresentando baixo vigor.
23433508|The general responses to salt stress have been investigated in two lentil cultivars (Lens culinaris Med.) ILL6788 and Nugget, which have been identified as being salt tolerant and susceptible as adult plants, respectively. This research investigated the response of these cultivars to different salinity levels during germination. Germination medium (filter paper) was treated with aqueous solutions of 0, 2, 4 and 6 dSm-1 NaCl and distilled water (control) prior to planting. The highest salt concentrations caused a longer delay in germination and after seven days, germination percentage was 20% and 45% for the tolerant and sensitive lentil seeds respectively in 6 dSm-1 solution. Germination rate was decreased with increasing salt concentration and all treatments of NaCl were inhibitory to root and shoot elongation of seedlings in both cultivars compared to the distilled water controls. The Na+ concentration of two lentil cultivars in shoots and roots increased significantly as salinity concentration increased. Shoots accumulated much more Na+ than roots in both cultivars. Concentration of K+ in roots and shoots was reduced significantly with increasing NaCl concentration. The K+ concentration in roots and shoots increased significantly as incubation temperature increased up to 25 C. It was concluded that the tolerant lentil cultivar, ILL6788, was more sensitive than the susceptible cultivar, Nugget, to salinity over 2 dSm-1 during germination. It is therefore important to consider salinity response at different stages of growth when selecting for crop tolerance. [placeholder for Arabic characters]
23433511|Aerial parts of Clematis ispahanica Bioss., a medicinal plant, are being collected indiscriminately, thus it is an endangered species. Seeds were collected in 2007 and tested for germination and viability. The tetrazolium chloride test showed the seeds to be 93% viable, however the germination was 0% indicating nearly 100% dormancy. The objectives of this study were to investigate several methods for breaking dormancy and improving germination of this species. Fifteen seed treatments [sulfuric acid (98%, 15 and 30 sec), sulfuric acid (75%, 30 sec), GA3 (1500, 2000, 2500 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (250, 500 ppm, 48 h), IBA (500 ppm, 15 sec and 250 ppm, 30 sec), ethanol (96%, 24 h), 2,4-D (250, 500 ppm, 48 h), dry heat (60 C, 12 h) and chilling (5 C, 7 d)] were used. Sulfuric acid (98%, 15 sec), sulfuric acid (98%, 30 sec), GA3 (2500 ppm, 48 h), GA3 (2000 ppm, 48 h), GA3 (1500 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (250 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (500 ppm, 48 h), 2,4-D (500 ppm, 48 h) and chilling (5 C, 7 d) increased germination to 52, 28, 59, 41, 44, 40, 57, 7 and 7%, respectively. Whereas, 2,4-D (250 ppm, 48 h), sulfuric acid (75%, 30 sec), IBA (250 and 500 ppm, 30 and 15 sec), dry heat (60 C, 12 h) and ethanol (96%, 24 h) had no effect on germination. The results revealed that seed of C. ispahanica had nearly 100% dormancy, which may be both exogenous and endogenous. The treatments with the greatest degree of success in breaking dormancy were GA3 (15002500 ppm, 48 h), sulfuric acid (98%, 15 sec) and ethephon (250400 ppm, 48 h). However, the effectiveness of the methods depends on compound, concentration and treatment temperature and duration.
23433509|A simple seed germination protocol for Pleurospermum angelicoides (DC.) Cl., an endemic medicinal plant of west Himalaya has been developed. Among the various treatments (GA3, IAA, KNO3 and Chilling), chilling at 4 C for 7 d was found to be best with respect to percentage germination (55%) and seedling survival (77.8%). The other treatments (GA3, IAA, KNO3) reduced the percentage germination of the seeds as compared to control (40%). Improved percentage germination to chilling treatments corresponds well with natural condition where P. angelicoides seeds are covered with snow during the winter.
23433502|The cold test germination percentage of carryover seed corn lots treated with a seed-applied insecticide (SAI) can be below the seed industry's sale standard. However, the same seed lots have good emergence (80 to 90%) when planted in the field. The objectives of this study were to 1) evaluate the extent of cold test germination differences between carryover seed lots treated with fungicide + SAI or fungicide-only; 2) determine if an alternative preparation can be made to a seed lot prior to the cold test and the saturated cold test; and 3) address the accuracy of the conventional cold versus the saturated cold testing method in predicting field emergence. Nineteen seed lots treated with fungicide-only or fungicide + SAI were tested in the laboratory and the field. The cold test germination percentage of carryover seed lots treated with fungicide + SAI was lower than fungicide-only treated seed. When the treatments were removed with Tween 20, the cold test germination of the fungicide + SAI-treated seed was not significantly different from the fungicide-only treated control. The cold test of fungicide-only treated and fungicide + SAI-treated seed correctly estimated emergence under all field conditions. After the fungicide + SAI seed treatment was removed, the saturated cold test accurately predicted field emergence under "poor" field conditions but underestimated field emergence under "average" or "good" field conditions. Removing the fungicide + SAI treatment before conducting the cold test may help seed companies better predict field emergence of the seed lots.
23433310|High peroxidase activity in the soybean seed coat is controlled by a single dominant allele Ep. This peroxidase isoform represents up to 5% of the soluble protein in the dry seed coat of EpEp genotypes. The promoter and regulatory sequences of the soybean seed coat peroxidase gene could be used to drive expression of proteins of human and industrial importance. Soybean seed coats have unique features that make them ideal sites for this purpose. Several features were noticed in the 1524 bp upstream Ep promoter including four directed repeats, the as1 element of CaMV 35S promoter and a G-box like sequence. Transient assay results indicated that the 1524 bp 5 flanking promoter region was capable of driving GUS expression in the seed coat. Availability of the epep genotype and the nature of peroxidase activity enabled us to use peroxidase itself as a reporter to conduct the 5 sequential promoter deletion analysis. Promoter deletion analysis from -1524 to -467 of the Ep allele did not significantly affect peroxidase activity, and further deletion from -467 to -207 resulted in a sharp decrease in peroxidase activity in the seed coat. Two promoter fragments A4 (-467/-310) and A6 (-207/-1) were identified that interact with seed coat nuclear proteins. No DNA-protein complex was detected when these two fragments were incubated with root and leaf nuclear extracts, indicating that the binding of Ep promoter fragments and seed coat nuclear proteins was tissue specific.
23433312|To improve percent germination in seed lots of Albizia chinensis, seeds collected from 13 different provenances were examined under different temperature regimes (20, 25, 30, and 35 C) in the laboratory. Percent germination was optimal at 25 C. Seed lots were also pretreated with tap water (control), hot water, sulfuric acid (H2SO4), and rumen egesta (fresh sheep fecal matter as an incubation medium). Treatments with hot water, rumen egesta, and tap water considerably enhanced percent germination, irrespective of provenance. Soaking in H2SO4 or boiled water was ineffective in improving percent germination of the seed lots of A. chinensis. Seeds subjected to 25 C and a hot water pretreatment had the highest germination and took the least time for germination as compared to other temperature regimes and pretreatments. Among all the provenances compared, Josiara consistently had the highest germination across all treatments. Altitude (provenance) had an influence on germination, however there was little to no relationship between altitude and germination following laboratory treatments.
23433311|The germination behavior of 11 medicinal plant species under different temperatures was studied. Seeds of all species were exposed to eight constant temperatures ranging from 540 C. A linear model was applied to describe the germination rate-temperature relationship. Tested species showed clear differences in temperature requirements for seed germination. The highest germination percentage was observed within the ranges of 1525 C for Marrubium vulgare L., 1530 C for Origanum majorana L., 1030 C for Hyssopus officinalis L. and Silybum marianum L., 1025 C for Thymus daenensis Celak subsp. daenensis and Ocimum basilicum L. Germination of most species ceased or highly declined at temperatures of 35 C. The highest germination rate was observed within temperature ranges of 1530 C for Nepeta racemosa Lam., Oenothera biennis L. and H. officinalis, 1025 C for O. basilicum and Salvia nemorosa L., 2025 C for O. majorana L. and T. daenensis and 1030 C for S. marianum. The lowest base temperature was observed for Salvia sclarea L., S. nemorosa, H. officinalis and Centaurea benedicta (L.) L. All medicinal species studied in this research had a low, below 5 C, base temperature. Optimum temperature ranged from 1324 C, and the lowest optimum temperature belonged to C. benedicta. These germination requirements are insufficient to make a general conclusion for introducing the species into cultivation, however, these data provide basic temperature requirements for further research.
23433314|The lack of information about predicting seedling emergence of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) in field conditions prompted us to study the relationship between laboratory tests and field emergence. This experiment was conducted at Gorgan University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran. Seeds from five cultivars of safflower ('Abade', 'Hartman', 'Kino76', 'PI19829' and 'Zarghan279') were used in these experiments. Laboratory tests included standard germination (SG), accelerated aging (AA), seedling growth rate (SGR) and electrical conductivity (EC). The results revealed that the AA and EC tests provided better separation of safflower seed vigor levels than SG and SGR. Seed from 'Zarghan279' was the lowest quality with no difference in seed quality among the other cultivars. The fitted regression of the laboratory tests and field emergence trials showed that germination percentage after aging (R2 = 0.92**) and EC (R2 = 0.94**) were better related to field emergence than any of the other tests. Thus, EC and AA tests were the most successful in predicting the emergence potential of the safflower seeds.
23433313|Standard calibration samples are used in the uniform blowing procedure to calibrate General-type seed blowers to even out the physical variation among them and achieve uniformity in separating lightweight inert matter from pure seed. Currently, there is no standardized procedure for production of calibration samples for tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.), one of the main cool season forage crops in the U.S. The objective of this study was to develop a stepwise procedure to prepare standard calibration samples for tall fescue (TF) with proven uniformity, i.e., master calibration samples (MCS). The optimum blowing point (OBP) for tall fescue was identified. It was defined as the point at which almost all lightweight inert matter was removed via blowing (light fraction) and the pure seed remained in the heavy fraction. Various tall fescue samples representing different varieties, production years, and growing conditions were used to produce the light and heavy fractions of nine master calibration samples. Uniformity of the MCS developed in this study was tested. The MCS identified the OBP across several blowers, and, samples with different levels of inert matter were uniformly separated. The prescribed procedures can be used as a guideline to prepare master calibration samples for other species because the principles of preparation are the same.
23433309|Cleome gynandra L. is a traditional semi-domesticated leafy vegetable grown in East Africa. It belongs to the family Cleomaceae. Farmers save seed from each harvest for planting in the next season. C. gynandra seeds fail to germinate when planted immediately after harvest. Studies were conducted to determine appropriate seed treatments to overcome dormancy in freshly harvested C. gynandra seeds. Seeds were subjected to various dormancy breaking treatments including: potassium nitrate (KNO3), leaching, light, gibberellic acid (GA3) and chilling. Additional studies were carried out to determine the degree of dormancy in seeds harvested from pods at different positions on the plant. Among all treatments studied, application of GA3 at a concentration of 500 ppm resulted in the highest final germination. Stratification for two weeks at 5 C and germination in dark also improved germination significantly. While leaching had no significant effect, treatment with KNO3 and light reduced germination. Seeds from lower and middle positioned siliques germinated readily compared to those from upper siliques. We suggest for commercialization of C. gynandra seed that have high potential germination, treating seeds immediately after harvest with GA3 at a concentration of 500 ppm before being packaged and sold to farmers is a possibility that can be explored.
23433308|Influence of environmental factors on germination and emergence of Italian ryegrass [Lolium perenne L. subsp. multiflorum (Lam.) Husn.], including glyphosate-resistant populations, is lacking. Such knowledge would help improve our understanding of the biology and ecology of this problem species, which could in turn, aid in its management. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of temperature, light, pH, salt and osmotic stress, shikimic acid and planting depth on germination of glyphosate-resistant (R) and susceptible (S) Italian ryegrass populations. Overall, germination of both populations of Italian ryegrass was highest at 13 C and decreased when temperature increased to 20 or 27 C under both light and dark conditions. Light stimulated germination (57%) compared to darkness (41%) at 13 C, but light had no effect on germination at 20 and 27 C. The resistant population had higher germination (6987%) compared to the susceptible (3757%) at a pH range of 47. Seed germination decreased as NaCl concentration increased from 20160 mM and osmotic potential increased from o (distilled water) to -0.8 MPa in both populations. Germination of the R and S populations decreased from 76% to 25% and 67% to 12%, respectively, as shikimic acid concentration increased from 016 mM. Seedling emergence was highest from seed placed on the soil surface. Seedling emergence was less than 7% from seed planted at a 0.5 cm depth and no seedlings emerged from seed planted below 2.5 cm for both populations. Both populations germinated under a broad range of environmental conditions used in the study, however, the R population was higher than the S population.
23433622|Twenty one accessions of germplasm of Canavalia (C. ensiformis-12; C. gladiata-9), a wild edible legume collected from Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in South India were analyzed for oil content and fatty acid composition. The oil content in Canavalia ranged between 0.42.3%. The variability for oil content and fatty acid composition is presented in this paper. Seed lipids of all Canavalia accessions contained higher amounts of unsaturated fatty acids (69.181.8%) compared to saturated fatty acids (18.230.9%). Oleic acid was found to be the major component in all the seed lipids. Grid maps were generated using DIVA-GIS for the analysis of diversity based on total unsaturated fatty acids and total saturated fatty acids. IC310951, a C. ensiformis accession collected from Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest omega-3 fatty acid (linolenic acid, 11.4%) which forms an essential fatty acid.
23433620|Thrips that feed within florets on developing embryos in grass seed crops reduce yield and pose a risk of global dispersal as they remain cryptic within the lemma and palea in harvested seeds. In some species, a single thrips develops within one floret, and hence one seed is lost with each thrips-infested floret, irrespective of seed size. The objectives of this study were to determine the grass seed crop host range and percent seed loss due to floret-infesting thrips. The two-year study was conducted in western Oregon, a key grass seed production region in the USA. Three fields were surveyed for each crop, and 3,000 seeds were examined per field by stereo-microscope observation of 100 florets from each of 30 inflorescences in 2005 and 200 florets from 15 inflorescences in 2006. Crops surveyed include bentgrass (Agrostis castellana Boiss. & Reut.), annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb. subsp. arundinacea), Chewing's fescue [Festuca rubra ssp. Fallax (Thuill.) Nyman] and orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.). In both years, 94.4% of all fields surveyed were infested. Adults of one or two thrips species, Chirothrips manicatus Haliday and Limothrips cerealium Haliday, were recorded in florets of all grasses. Average percentage seed loss per crop ranged from 0.03% to 4.42%. In one perennial ryegrass field, however, 11.4% seed loss was recorded. The impact of thrips size and life cycle on crops infested, seed loss and potential risk of global dispersal based on harvest schedules is discussed.
23433621|An investigation on germination of annatto (Bixa orellana L.) was conducted. Water uptake studies showed that seeds were fully imbibed after 24 h. Soaking in water for 24 h enhanced germination (82%) compared to the untreated control (57%). Germination was improved to 93% and was coupled with a significant (p < 0.001) reduction in mean time to germination (MTG, 3.64 d) by soaking seeds in a 50 ppm gibberellic acid (GA3) solution for 24 h. Germination capacity for medium (97%) weight class seeds was higher than light (40%) or heavy seeds (60%). Significant (p < 0.001) germination variability was recorded among eight seed collections. Seeds collected from populations in Kariavattom (82%) and Kulathupuzha (80%) produced significantly higher germination coupled with a low mean time to germination.
23433619|Understanding the relationship between life cycle events of native species and their prevailing environmental conditions provides a framework in which site-specific propagation strategies can be developed. We examined the ecophysiological aspects of seed germination in three Allium species native to the Intermountain West (A. acuminatum, A. brandegei, and A. passeyi) to evaluate ecotypic variation in relation to the altitude of the collection site. Three populations of each species were evaluated along an altitudinal gradient. The study consisted of two laboratory experiments: 1) germination trials assessing the effects of moist chilling temperatures on germination percentage in each species; and, 2) germination trials measuring the response within and among species from contrasting habitats to moist chilling duration. The data demonstrate a strong among-species pattern of increasing dormancy with increasing elevation. Although germination in all three species responded favorably to moist chilling at 3 C, there was significant variation in the chill duration required to break dormancy. The presence of a non-dormant fraction only in the lowest A. acuminatum collection, and all three of the A. passeyi collections also indicates a higher level of selection pressure against this trait in sites with longer and more predictable winters. The observed patterns in seed germination are typical of survival strategies in other spring ephemerals. This current understanding of the influence of habitat on germination traits in these Intermountain Allium species will aid in the development of seed-source specific propagation protocol.
23433618|Most seed technologists and other seed industry professionals have little spare time to devote to professional development. A leave of absence to take college courses is not an option for most technologists or their employers. Yet new developments in seed biology make continuing education more important than ever. To help working seed industry professionals maintain proficiency and develop new skills, several seed technology programs/courses have been created at land-grant universities that are offered on the worldwide web. These web-based distance-learning programs can be completed at home as time permits without on campus residence. Three such programs are the Iowa State University MS and Certificate Programs in Seed Business and Technology (http://www.seedgrad.iastate.edu/sb), the Consortium for International Seed Technology Training (CISTT, http://www.seedconsortium.org/index.html) coordinated by The Ohio State University and partner universities in Brazil and Chile, and the National Seed Science and Technology Certificate program and the Seed Technology Education Certificate program, both offered through Colorado State University (CSU), http://step.colostate.edu. Oregon State University, Virginia Tech, and University of Kentucky also offer web-based distance-learning courses.
23433623|Mantisia spathulata Schult and M. wengeri Fischer are critically endangered and endemic ornamental zingibers restricted to a few pockets of Mizoram, Northeast India. Plants are decreasing at an alarming rate due to natural calamities and few countable representatives of both species exist in their wild habitats. To develop a system for rapid mass recovery and sustainability of the genetic diversity of the few existing plants, seeds of both species were germinated under in vivo and in vitro conditions. In vivo germination of seeds was very low (20% and 24% for M. spathulata and M. wengeri, respectively). However, germination in vitro was significantly enhanced. A maximum of 90.0% and 96.6% germination was recorded for M. spathulata and M. wengeri within 2 wk in MS medium supplemented with 4.3 M and 7.2 M GA3, respectively. Seedlings of both species were transferred to an experimental garden and maintained as a field gene bank that could be utilized for studying genetic variability.
23433624|The standardization of in vitro seed germination of Tartary buckwheat [Fagopyrum tataricum (L) Gaertn.] under ideal conditions has been studied. Seed samples were collected from different locations in Uttarakhand, northern India, covering maximum regions of cultivation for the species. Seeds were inoculated to germinate in glass flasks on agar using MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of two growth regulators, 6-Benzylaminopurine (BAP) and -Naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Cultures were inoculated under illumination (16 h daylight/8 h darkness) and in continuous darkness at 25  2 C. In vitro culture conditions improved the percentage and rate of seed germination. Average maximum germination was 87% in seeds treated with combination of BAP (1 mgL-1) and NAA (0.3 mgL-1) in the light conditions, which was significantly higher than in the dark conditions (78%). In light conditions, germination was 67% and 59% for cultures supplemented with BAP (3 mgL-1) and NAA (0.3 mgL-1), respectively. It has been concluded that light has a direct relationship with seed germination.
23433625|The effect of combinations of temperature and time for the accelerated ageing test (AA) were investigated using five lots of sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) seed. Sesame seed lots, which initially had a standard germination above 96%, were subjected to AA at temperatures of 47 and 49 C for 24, 48, 72, 96 and 120 h. The results showed that 47 C/72 h provided a better separation to evaluate the physiological quality of sesame seed lots than other temperature/time combinations. Thus, it can be concluded that this combination, 47 C/72 h, could be used to evaluate the seed vigor of sesame seeds. However, further work is required to confirm these results and make final recommendations.
23433603|The storage method to preserve seed quality is highly dependent on the recalcitrant, orthodox and intermediate nature of seeds. Storage behavior of Aconitum heterophyllum and Podophyllum hexandrum, two endangered medicinal plants of western Himalaya, is unknown, preventing cryopreservation of these species. To develop seed cryopreservation protocols for these highly valued medicinal species, moisture content and temperature effects on storability were evaluated by seed germination and viability. While seeds did not maintain high germination percentages when stored at 25 C, irrespective of moisture content, seeds of both species desiccated to 5% moisture content could withstand temperatures as low as 20 C. The critical storage temperature and moisture content of these seeds were 4 C and 5%, respectively, based on germination (100 and 75%) recorded after 12 and 24 months. This seed storage behavior characterized the seeds of both species as "orthodox". Following newly established moisture and temperature criteria, 14 accessions of P. hexandrum and two accessions of A. heterophyllum were successfully cryopreserved for future germplasm availability.
23433600|Seed vigor is defined as those "seed properties that determine the potential for rapid, uniform emergence and development of seedlings under a wide range of field conditions." The relationship between seed vigor and soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seedling emergence is well documented, but much less is known about the effect of seed vigor on the uniformity of emergence. Emergence of seedlings from seed lots with standard germination > 80% and seed vigor levels (accelerated-aging germination) from 5 to 94% was determined in greenhouse experiments that included variation in planting depth (2.5 to 6.0 cm), low temperatures, and sterile and pathogen-infected soil. Emergence (growth stage VE) was counted at 4- to 8-h intervals and the Gompertz model was used to describe cumulative emergence vs. time. The uniformity index (UI) (time from 10 to 90% of maximum emergence) varied from 15 to 160 h and increased as the time to 50% emergence (T50) increased. Seed vigor had no effect on UI when the seedlings emerged rapidly, but the UI for high-vigor seed was smaller (emergence was more uniform) than for low vigor seed when T50 was large (less than ideal conditions for emergence). The largest UI (160 h) occurred when low-vigor seed was planted deep in pathogen-infested soil. Seed size (sized vs. unsized or large vs. small) had no effect on UI. Uniformity was related to seed vigor, but only when conditions for emergence were less than ideal.
23433604|The present investigation was carried out to evaluate the carryover effects of foliar applications of nitric oxide (NO) using sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as a donor at 50, 100, 200 and 400 g mL-1 on seed quality in terms of seed germinability characteristics of Brassica napus L. (cv. GSL-1) under simulated drought conditions. Seeds harvested from SNP treated plants showed higher germination percentage, seedling length, seedling dry weight and seedling vigor as compared to controls when germinated at different PEG-induced osmotic potentials (0, 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 MPa). Seed imbibition, electrolyte leakage and relative water content of seedlings were also favorably altered following SNP treatments when seeds were germinated under simulated drought conditions. Thus, seeds from SNP treated plants performed better under all PEG levels indicating the improved quality of seeds in terms of germinability characteristics. Among different SNP foliar treatments, 100 g mL-1 SNP showed better germinability and seedling responses.
23433602|Myrica esculenta is well-known for its edible fruit and other by-products and has emerged as a potential income generating species. The species is generally propagated via seeds but physical dormancy caused by an impermeable seed coat results in unreliable germination. Fruits of M. esculenta were collected from nine sites varying from low, mid and high range of the species' distribution (9002100 masl) and used to study the influence of eight pretreatments on germination. Seeds treated with different concentrations and durations of sulfuric acid (H2SO4) failed to germinate. Seeds treated with hot water gave maximum germination ranging between 33% and 57%. Seeds treated with cold water showed 13% to 26% higher germination compared to the control, whereas germination following hot water treatment was 10% to 26% higher than germination following cold water treatment.
23433601|Salinity stress is a major environmental constraint in arid and semi-arid regions such as Iran. Excessive amounts of salt in soil severely reduce seed germination and seedling growth of crops in agricultural systems. The purpose of this research was to study the effect of temperature, salinity and their interaction on the germination and seedling growth of nine medicinal plant species. Treatments included three temperatures (15, 25 and 35 C) and four NaCl concentrations (0, 5.3, 8.48 and 10.6 g L-1). Results showed that salinity treatments significantly reduced germination percentage, germination rate, seedling growth and seedling vigor in all nine medicinal plant species. Germination percentage and germination rate of all medicinal plant species gradually declined as the concentration of NaCl increased. Ocimum basilicum was the only species among the nine medicinal plants in this study that germinated in salinity concentration of 8.48 g L-1. Germination rate and germination percentage of all species, except O. basilicum were adversely affected by increasing temperature to 35 C. The highest seedling vigor in most species was observed in a temperature range of 15 to 25 C and increasing temperature up to 35 C strongly decreased it. The interaction effect of temperature and NaCl concentration on final germination in all species was significant, indicating that germination response to salinity depended on temperature. The inhibitory effect of high salinity on final germination, germination rate, seedling growth and seedling vigor was greater at 35 C than at 15 C.
23433605|Seed germination of Mimusops elengi L. is hindered by a hard seed coat making natural revegetation through seeds very difficult. This study was conducted to establish a method of seed germination for M. elengi. Treatments included subjecting seeds treated to hot water and sulfuric acid (H2SO4) for 20 and 40 min, withering of viable seeds in cow and buffalo manure for 45 d and in vitro propagation on MS media fortified with plant growth regulators including IBA, 2,4-D, IAA, Kn, BA and GA at concentrations of 0.2 mg L-1. Well-developed seedlings were transferred to sterilized soil-sand mixtures and subsequently transferred to containers with soil and compost fertilizer for further growth. Sulfuric acid and hot water did not promote germination, while withering with manure improved germination. Seed germination was observed in media fortified with IBA, Kn, BA and GA while 2,4-D did not promote germination. In vitro developed seedlings were successfully transplanted to the field with a 100% survival rate. In vitro techniques proved superior to conventional techniques for seed propagation of M. elengi.
23433367|Research was conducted in 2005 and 2006 in eastern North Dakota to determine the value of the accelerated aging test in predicting field performance in hard red spring (Triticum aestivum L.) and durum (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) wheat. Four seed lots from four different cultivars were selected each year with standard germination greater than 76% and a wide range of germination after accelerated aging. Seed lots were planted in field plots and their emergence and agronomic performance measured. In 2005, seed lots within cultivars did not significantly differ in field emergence, yield or any other traits measured at harvest. In 2006, seed-lots did differ in field emergence and yield, but differences could not be explained by the results of the accelerated aging test. In both 2005 and 2006, correlations between the accelerated aging test and field emergence and yield were not significant nor were correlations between the standard germination test and field emergence significant. The data indicate that the accelerated aging test is a poor predictor of field emergence and yield of hard red spring and durum wheat, within the context of the environments where the research was conducted.
23433370|Successful oak regeneration is problematic because of species competition, environmental stresses, and the biological limitations of the recalcitrant oak seeds. This study investigated the effect of seed size and parent tree on 3-month-old seedlings for biomass and morphological variables. Seeds of Quercus macrocarpa and Quercus alba were separated into different sizes. Two Q. macrocarpa parent trees gave five "small" sizes (13 to 18 mm), while three parent trees gave five "large" sizes (18 to 23 mm). Two Q. alba parent trees gave three seed sizes (17 to 19 mm). Both seed size and parent affected seedling growth, with larger seeds performing better. All the biomass variables increased as seed size increased. Regression analysis indicated that root dry weight is a good surrogate for root area. Leaf area and number of first order lateral roots increased, while specific leaf area (SLA) decreased with increase in seed size. This suggests that seed size affects early developmental stages, with larger seeds giving rise to more vigorous seedlings with characteristics, such as thicker leaves (lower SLA), that enhance establishment success. Conclusively, larger seeds of the studied recalcitrant species could promote regeneration success and benefit nursery practices by reducing production cost when regenerating a site by planting seeds as opposed to transplanting seedlings.
23433369|This study presents a complete morphological and agronomic characterization of five local runner bean landrace cultivars, coming from an organic farm in Oteruelo del Valle (Madrid, Spain). The cultivars were evaluated following the descriptions of the Protocol for Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability test of Phaseolus coccineus L. (CPVO-TP/009/1 Final). A distinctness analysis of the local landraces compared to 12 different commercial cultivars inscribed in the European Union Common Catalogue was carried out. The results show a complete varietal description for each variety which allows differentiation the vegetable material selected by local farmers from the rest of the commercial varieties based in morphological and agronomical traits. This work will be the first step to later multiplication and conservation of the local material described, allowing the material used in organic agriculture to be included into breeding programs and possibly registering these local landraces as commercial varieties.
23433368|Four thousand-four-hundred and three seed inventories of Capsicum spp. obtained from the USDA/ARS Capsicum germplasm collection were tested for the presence of Pepper mild mottle virus (PMMoV). Approximately 32% of these inventories tested positive for PMMoV and the virus distribution was nearly uniform across the five cultivated species of this genus. Treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with 10% trisodium phosphate (TSP) for 2.5 h at room temperature reduced germination in 11/50 accessions examined and significantly increased the number of abnormal seedlings. Indicator plant [Chenopodium giganteum D. Don.formerly C. amaranticolor (Coste & A. Reyn.) Coste & Reyn] analysis revealed that treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with 10% TSP for 2.5 h reduced virus infectivity, but did not eliminate it. Treatment with 10% TSP for 24 h eliminated PMMoV from four of six tested accessions. Short-term treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with TSP prior to planting is expected to significantly reduce the incidence of the virus, but not eliminate it in all instances.
23433371|Swertia chirayita, a critically endangered and high value Himalayan medicinal herb was investigated to understand response of different populations on initial seed germination, and germination after storage at 4 C for 18 months. Populations differed significantly for seed characteristics, indicating considerable genetic diversity. Of 13 populations tested, eight exhibited 100% germination immediately after collection, which was negatively correlated with altitude of the sites where plants were growing. The results suggested an acceptable range of 16 to 42% seed moisture content, before storage, as suitable criteria for S. chirayita populations in long term gene resource conservation. Seed from 10 plant populations showed a steady decline in germination over the storage period. Varied germination responses offer a possibility of selecting elite populations as a seed resource in S. chirayita. The Mean Germination Time (MGT) significantly declined after six months, but increased after 12 and 18 months of seed storage for the majority of plant populations. The best germination and lowest MGT occurred for seed of S. chirayita that was sown six months after collection, followed by slightly lower levels at 12 months. Several populations tested offer promise for the conservation of this species as potential gene bank in Sikkim Himalaya.
23433366|Aged switchgrass seed lots can display various levels of dormancy. Understanding the causes for this dormancy will provide better insight into seed physiology, and potentially lead to treatments that reduce variability in seed germination assays. The effects of sodium nitroprusside, potassium ferrocyanide and hydrogen peroxide on the germination of eight aged switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) seed lots, seven of which were produced in the same year at a single experiment station, were examined. Seed germination demonstrated a significant seed lots  days and treatments  days effect. However, responses of individual seed lots to specific chemicals varied considerably. Genetically related seed lots did not display similar responses to the treatments, while switchgrass derived from a different germplasm exhibited a more similar response. Coleoptile emergence was significantly improved by chemical treatments and showed a significant seed lots  treatment interaction. Together, these results indicate (1) chemicals releasing reactive nitrogen species or peroxide can overcome residual dormancy and stimulate seed germination and coleoptile emergence in diverse switchgrass seed lots, and (2) multiple mechanisms, to some extent under genetic control, appear to direct switchgrass seed germination.
23433373|When comparing the efficacy of different chemicals on seed dormancy breakage, germination percentage alone is not a good descriptor of the phenomenon because the process can be triggered by high concentrations of a compound while other compound can be highly effective under very low concentrations. Because of that an Efficiency Index (Ief) relating the response (i.e. dormancy breakage) of dormant seeds of Townsville stylo (Stylosanthes humilis HBK) to several selenium (Se) compounds at their optimal concentrations was employed by Pinheiro et al. (2008 b). In this paper, the index is revised to a more coherent one (Efi), that relates the effect of the chemicals on germination in a more straight-forward way. The innate dimension displayed by the new index (amount of the chemical per unit germination percentage) is an expression of the tissue sensitivity to the chemicals.
23433372|Tectona grandis Linn. f. is a commercially important timber yielding tree species of the tropics. Teak wood commands worldwide reputation for its durability, strength, ease of working, moderate weight, beauty and dimensional stability. Hence, the areas under teak plantations are increasing rapidly and there is a greater demand for quality propagules of teak in the country. The information available on fruit germination among seed production areas (SPAs) of teak in India is limited. This study was conducted at the College of Forestry, Sirsi, South India. Fruits were collected from twenty SPAs during 2005 and 2006. The mean germination percentage of teak fruits collected from all SPAs was significantly higher after one year of storage (43.1%) compared to germination of fresh fruits (26.2%). Significant variation was recorded among the twenty SPAs for germination of fresh fruits (10.2 to 39.8%) as well as after one year of fruit storeage (13.8 to 63.8%). Variation was also among regions for germination ranging from 19 (Dandeli) to 32% (Madikeri) for freshly collected fruits and from 29 (Dandeli) to 53% (Yallapur) for one year stored fruits. This study has also shown that germination percentage was highly influenced by fruit traits such as fruit size and seed numbers per fruit and seed emptiness.
23433441|Hypocotyl collar rot in chickpeas (Cicer arietinum L.) may increase the variability in germination results between seed laboratories resulting in tests being out of tolerance. A study was conducted using two seed lots to evaluate the effectiveness of calcium nitrate for control of hypocotyl collar rot. Germination tests were conducted in four seed testing laboratories with and without calcium nitrate pre-treatments. The results indicate that calcium nitrate was effective in the control of hyopcotyl collar rot, which increased germination test results among laboratories.
23433437|Five experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of diurnal temperature variation on seed germination and hard seed content of three alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cultivars. The germination tests were mostly of 7 days duration, after which the seeds were classified as germinated (radicle  2 mm), fresh (swollen and radicle  2 mm), dead, abnormal, or hard. The first hypothesis tested was that germination under diurnal variations will be similar to that measured at constant 20 C. A diurnal temperature variation with a high temperature (i.e. 20/35 C [16-h night/8-h day]), resulted in alfalfa germination similar to that at 20 C. However, when the range in diurnal temperature was large and the temperature was high (i.e. 5/35 C), many seeds imbibed water but failed to germinate (fresh seed). When moved to favourable environmental conditions (i.e. 20 C), the majority of these fresh seeds germinated normally. Thus, the combination of a large range in diurnal temperature and a high temperature inhibited seed germination. The second hypothesis tested was that hard seed content is decreased by diurnal temperature variation compared with that at 20 C. A treatment including both a large range in diurnal temperature and high daytime temperature (i.e. 5/35 C) decreased the hard seed content, however these formerly hard seeds germinated when moved to favourable environmental conditions (20 C). The inhibition of seed germination and the decrease in hard seed content caused by a wide range in variable temperatures, did not depend on genotype or seed lot. However, whether or not the inhibited seeds originated from hard seeds or from rapidly (7 d) germinating seeds did depend on seed lot.
23433443|Tachigaren 70 WP is a fungicide approved in 1995 for use as a seed treatment for pelleted sugarbeet seed that has high germination and strong vigor. At the labeled rate Tachigaren 70 WP will control low levels of Aphanomyces, a fungi that causes seedling damping off, however, phytotoxicity has been reported in laboratory tests. Six pelleted seed lots were treated with Tachigaren and laboratory and field trials were conducted to evaluate the phytotoxic effects of the fungicide on germination and field emergence. Tachigaren treated seed resulted in lower standard germination compared to the control (AOSA blotter test) and a pleated paper germination test for all seed lots. When the test was conducted in a soil/sand mixture, the results for Tachigaren treated seed germination was similar to the control. Tachigaren significantly reduced field emergence in three of the six seed lots, but not to the extent measured bythe standard germination blotter test.
23433449|The historical association of white kernel color in wheat with susceptibility to preharvest sprouting and the comparative mapping information suggesting the possible involvement of maize (Zea mays L.) vivipary 1 were used as the basis for isolation and characterization of the wheat homologue. Consensus primers were designed based on conserved regions of the gene in rice (Oryza sativa L.), maize, and Arabidopsis. These primers were used to amplify a portion of the wheat vivipary 1 gene for sequencing and analysis. A comparison of sequence similarity between maize, rice, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) revealed that exons 1 and 6 are highly diverged among all the species. Sequence divergence for rice/maize/barley comparisons are similar across all exons. Comparisons with wheat indicate a trend for exons 2 and 5 to be slightly less conserved leading to lower sequence similarity overall for wheat. Barley sequences were all closely related to wheat, even for exon 6. If additional mapping data support a recent report that Vp1 is not responsible for red kernel color in wheat, this could facilitate enhancement of grain dormancy in white wheat by allowing manipulation of vivipary 1 without affecting kernel color.
23433438|One of the most important considerations of seed users is field performance of the seed lot, because the grower expects an ideal plant population. Several laboratory and field tests were conducted to determine the relationship between electrical conductivity (EC) and soybean seed quality and seedling emergence in the field and to determine the EC range which predicts establishment. Six cultivars representing 54 seed lots were used in 1993 and five cultivars representing 50 seed lots were used in 1994 with four cultivars in common in both years. The physiological quality of the seed lots was evaluated, and three field emergence (FE) tests were conducted each year. The evaluation of performance of the lots with specific EC values and their field emergence allowed the identification of electrical conductivity values, which may result in field emergence equal to or greater than the expected minimum. Seed lots with EC  90 mhos cm-1 g-1 resulted, in field emergence values that were equal to or greater than 70%, with a high degree of precision. The use of seed lots with EC up to 110 mhos cm-1 g-1, resulted in field emergence values equal to or greater than 60%, also with a high degree of precision. The electrical conductivity test appears to be a useful tool to help soybean growers to establish their seeding rate, based on the expected field environmental conditions.
23433440|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr] seed coats are an abundant and inexpensive source of peroxidase. Peroxidase's main function is to oxidize molecules using hydrogen peroxide and elemental oxygen as a donor. Therefore, soybean peroxidase could be an economical alternative to current chemical oxidation techniques. Peroxidase enzyme activity declines after harvest, therefore reducing the extraction horizon or preventing the loss of enzyme activity during seed storage could generate significant cost savings. The objective of this research was to determine the effect of seed moisture content and temperature during storage on soybean seed coat peroxidase activity. Seed lots of high peroxidase cultivars were conditioned to differing seed moisture levels (9 and 13%) and stored in controlled temperature incubators (10, 20, 30, and 40 C) or in a warehouse. Peroxidase activity was measured using the soybean seed coat peroxidase capture assay. Seed moisture did not affect the loss of peroxidase activity in stored soybean seeds but as storage temperatures increased from 10 to 40 C the loss of peroxidase activity was accelerated.
23433439|This study was conducted to measure variability in results of germination tests, to estimate tolerances needed to cover variation in test results, and to determine the minimum number of seeds required for producing germination results within the limits of established tolerances. Data were collected from conventional germination referee (CGR) tests on corn (Zea mays L.) and soybeans (Glycine max (L.) Merrill), conducted by up to 46 Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST) laboratories in the Midwest and Upper Great Lakes Region in 1994 to 1996. In 1997, a "blind germination referee (BGR) test" was conducted on the same crops by 2325 laboratories in the same region in which the individual replicates of the same seed lots were unknown to the analysts performing the test. A positive "inter-replicate bias" in which a significant correlation existed among the results of replicate tests occurred in the CGR but not in the BGR tests. Tolerance limits calculated for germination above 90% from both CGR and BGR test results were close to International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) Rules, but lower than those in the AOSA Rules. Tolerances calculated for germination levels below 90% from both CGR and BGR test results were generally higher than both the AOSA and ISTA tolerances. The greatest decline of test variability was observed when sample sizes were increased from one 100-seed replicate to two 100-seed replicates.
23433442|This preliminary study was conducted to determine whether the physiological quality of field bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seeds could be rapidly evaluated using the potassium leachate and the conductivity tests. Five seed lots of cultivar IAC-Carioca were tested for germination, accelerated aging (41 C/72 h) and exposed to nine preconditioning periods (from 1 to 24 h) at 25 C before conductivity readings. The potassium leakage was determined after six imbibition periods ranging from 15 to 90 min. Results confirmed previously reported information on the usefulness of the potassium leachate test as differences of physiological quality among seed lots were identified using the combination of 25 pure seeds imbibed in 75 ml distilled water at 30 C for 30 or 45 min. The possibility of shortening the imbibition period (up to 12h) for field bean seeds conductivity test was also determined.
23433018|Flower seed quality has improved markedly in the past 20 years. Standardized germination testing has not developed to more accurately reflect this improved seed quality. Eleven ideas are presented to improve seed testing and the reporting of seed testing results. Imaging technology is the most important of these. A failure to adopt and interpret the results of computer images following a germination test will ultimately lead to the obsolescence of AOSA in flower seed testing because this important work will be fulfilled by commercial companies.
23433017|A seed company's ability to produce high quality vegetable and flower seed depends greatly on how it manipulates common and unusual environmental and cultural situations arising in the production field. Many of these situations can be planned for, limited and controlled; however, problems always occur that are unexpected. Crop location, planting time, pollination, pest control, irrigation, nutrition and harvesting methods for each seed crop must all be considered, reviewed and/or controlled to ensure successful seed production. This review discusses the common cultural and environmental problems vegetable and flower seed companies have in producing high quality seed.
23433020|The successful result of a quality wildflower planting is the establishment of a natural environment of beauty for people to enjoy. Although the term "wildflower" appears simple, it is one of contention in the current wildflower market place. Wildflowers are desired for their less formal presentation and adaptation to a variety of environmental conditions. These same traits create problems with quality assurance of wildflower seed; problems that arise from the basic nature of wildflowers due to their wildness. The wildness of wildflower seed is expressed in a variety of ways that affect stand establishment, seed production, conditioning, laboratory testing and marketing.
23433019|Purity and germination testing provide a baseline value of vegetable and flower seed quality. The history of standardization of seed testing protocols for vegetable and flower seeds utilized by the Association of Official Seed Analysts over the past 100 years is reviewed. The ability to assess and convey levels of seed quality for vegetable and flower seeds is hampered by the lack of appropriate or standardized laboratory testing methods, or both. This discussion provides examples of problems ranging from kind and seed unit identification, classification of contaminants, germination test methods and seedling evaluation. Emphasis is placed on the need to develop and refine laboratory testing procedures and improve seed analyst training with the focus on standardization within and among laboratories.
23433025|Seed dormancy in small-seeded vegetable and flower crops impacts both seed production and germination. Seed dormancy can also complicate assessment of seed quality by the seed analyst who requires prompt germination to evaluate a seed lot. These crops also display diverse mechanisms for seed dormancy. This review surveys and categorizes the different seed dormancy conditions found in this important group of plants. Vegetable and flower genera are listed according to dormancy type. Categories of dormancy include primary and secondary dormancy. Within primary dormancy, examples of vegetable and flower genera can be found that display exogenous, endogenous and combinational dormancy. Secondary dormancy can be an important problem in selected vegetable and flower seeds. Specific examples are given for each type of dormancy along with methods to alleviate dormancy. Tables are included that group vegetable and flower genera according to dormancy type.
23433021|The high sucrose content of shrunken-2 (sh2) or supersweet sweet corn inhibits drying of the seed crop in the field, and necessitates a long (70 day +) period of maturation after pollination before harvest and artificial drying of the seed crop. During this time, the ear is highly susceptible to invasion by insects and rotting by fungi. Stringent insect control is crucial for production of disease-free seed. Certain of the ear-rotting fungi, most notably Penicillium oxalicum, are seed-transmitted, causing disease and mortality in sweet corn seedlings. This necessitates treatment of the seeds with a strong mixture of fungicides, including a broad-spectrum systemic fungicide where possible. During maturation of the seed crop in the field, physiological changes gradually occur in the seed, rendering it capable of high seed vigor after commercial harvest and drying. Seed parents differ dramatically in inherent seed vigor, resistance to stress and pests, and in the length of the maturation period needed to produce seed of the highest possible vigor. Commercial seed lots sometimes exhibit poor seed vigor, in spite of high germination. Vigor tests, such as the accelerated aging test, are useful for predicting the field emergence potential of sh2 seed lots.
23433022|Recognition of the importance of seed-borne diseases in vegetable and flower seeds is often overlooked, particularly in the case of flower seeds. Plant diseases may be found in, on or with seed and seed lots. Seed-borne diseases may be grouped according to their causal agents, fungi, bacteria, viruses nematodes etc.. Development of disease in a crop as a result of seed-borne inoculum is a result of the interactions between the pathogen, its host and the environment. Epidemiology is the study of these interactions. Effective disease management programs and the development of reliable and accurate methods for seed health testing is dependent upon an understanding of plant disease epidemiology.
23433024|Priming is a treatment that partially hydrates seeds so that germination processes begin, but radicle emergence does not occur. Experimentally, priming treatments are limited only to conditions that do not result in premature radicle extension and may include: equilibration under conditions of high humidity, soaking in water or osmotic solution, equilibration with a matric-potential control surface, intermixture with a porous matrix material, and moisture addition to a seed water content less than required for germination. Commercial priming technology has evolved from osmotic priming to solid matrix priming and finally drum priming which is gaining acceptance for large-scale use. The degree of enhancement from priming depends upon the initial quality of the seed, the species being treated, treatment conditions such as temperature, water potential (), duration, and other conditions specific to the priming medium. There is no simple recipe for determining the best priming treatment for a particular species. Priming treatments must be determined empirically. In several species, the optimal  for priming ranges from the least negative  that prevents radicle emergence to approximately -2.5 MPa. Some reported effects of priming include increased germination rate, greater germination uniformity, increased germination percentage, advancement of maturity, wider temperature range for germination, repair of cellular damage, weakening of barriers to embryo growth, reduced seed storage life, increased protein synthesis, and removal of dormancy. However, it is increasingly apparent that the effects of priming differ widely among species. The evolution of priming technology is reviewed as well as our current knowledge of how priming enhances germination performance.
23433023|Beneficial bacteria and fungi provide promising alternatives or supplements to chemicals as seed treatments against soilborne pathogens. This review provides an assessment of biological control agents (BCA's) currently used with vegetable crop species, and key limitations to expanded use of BCA's as seed treatments. Research areas for improved biological efficacy and reliability in field and greenhouse settings are also discussed. The ability of BCA's to effectively colonize and grow with the seedling root system may be particularly useful when crops experience environmental stress. Improved application methods to optimize the density and uniformity of biologicals on seeds are increasing the reliability of BCA technology. Early results also suggest variable levels of BCA compatibility with chemical seed treatments and other microbial applications. Progress in storability, ease of application and economy of BCA production will be needed to move biologicals beyond their niche position in the seed treatment market.
23433419|An efficient method of propagation for Vanda coerulea, a rare and endangered species, was developed via in vitro asymbiotic germination of seeds. Seeds excised from 10 to 11-month old artificially pollinated capsules were cultured aseptically on different media. A maximum seed germination of 71.8% was recorded on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium devoid of plant growth regulators. However, incorporation of either 5 M 6-benzyl aminopurine (BAP) or 5 M indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) separately in the MS medium further enhanced seed germination to 94.4% and 92.6%, respectively. A maximum shoot number of 13.2 with an average of 5.1 roots was obtained on MS medium supplemented with a combination of 5 M BAP and 15 M IAA. Well developed seedlings of V. coerulea were hardened in a potting medium comprised of charcoal, brick pieces and decaying litter in a 1:1:1 ratio, with a top layer of moss, wherein 91.2% survivability was obtained.
23433422|The soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed count test is routinely conducted to achieve desired field planting rates. Over or under-seeding affects seed production systems adversely. This study was conducted to establish meaningful tolerances that can be used for truth-in-labeling purposes. Experiments were conducted to 1) measure seed count variation among and within laboratories, 2) assess the effect of bag to bag variation within a seed lot on seed count tests, 3) measure the impact of seed moisture content on seed counts, 4) compare electronic versus manual seed count methods, and 5) determine the effect of sample size and number of replications on test variability in order to establish appropriate tolerances for seed count tests. Eight soybean seed lots were used by 42 laboratories over a three-year period to test the above variables. Results showed that including outlier test results (extreme values) contributed to variation in seed count tests within and among laboratories. Heterogeneity from bag to bag within a seed lot was significant and should be considered in establishing tolerances. Adjusting moisture content of seeds to a uniform level increased seed count test variation. Electronic and manual seed count methods produced comparable results. Sample size was more important than number of replicates per test. A 3.1% tolerance value was recommended as the largest insignificant difference between two test results. In case of lot heterogeneity, tolerances of 4.5 to 5% should be considered.
23433420|Seeds and seedlings of Pinus radiata may be seriously damaged by the canker fungi Diplodia pinea and Fusarium circinatum. This study evaluated alternative seed disinfection treatments against these canker fungi. Experiments were conducted to determine both inhibitory and fungicide effects on colony growth of D. pinea and F. circinatum. Treatments included 24 chemicals at four doses of 1, 10, 100 and 1000 g mL-1, eight essential oils at five dilutions of 10, 25, 50, 75 and 100% v/v, two antagonistic organisms, Trichoderma harzianum and Trichoderma harzianum, from Basque Country plantations, and four thermotherapy treatments of 55C for 8, 9, 10 and 11 hours in vitro. Fungicide and fungistatic effects on inhibition of fungal colony growth were evaluated and phytotoxicity of treatments on P. radiata seeds analyzed. Fusarium circinatum and D. pinea responded in similar ways to the tested treatments, although D. pinea was often inhibited at lower doses of chemical fungicides and higher doses of essential oils. Thermotherapy and Trichoderma treatments showed greater effectiveness against the D. pinea strain than the F. circinatum strain. Germination of P. radiata seeds was highly affected by essential oils application, causing a strong inhibitory effect ( 92.25% germination inhibition) with most of the tested oils. Semillas y plantas de Pinus radiata pueden ser daadas por Fusarium circinatum y Diplodia pinea. El principal objetivo de este estudio fue evaluar tratamientos de control alternativos frente a los hongos D. pinea y F. circinatum para su aplicacin en la desinfeccin de semilla. Se llevan a cabo experimentos para determinar ambos efectos, inhibidor y fungicida, en el crecimiento de las colonias de los hongos patgenos. Los compuestos qumicos y organismos utilizados incluyen : 24 compuestos qumicos (se testan 4 dosis 1, 10, 100 y 1000 g por ml), 8 aceites esenciales (cinco diluciones: 10, 25, 50, 75 y 100% v/v), dos colonias de organismos antagonistas (dos tratamientos de Trichoderma harzianum comercial y Trichoderma harzianum procedentes de plantaciones del Pas Vasco) y cuatro tratamientos de termoterapia (testados en un incubador a 55C durante 8, 9, 10 y 11 horas) in vitro. Se evala el efecto fungicida y fungiesttico en la inhibicin del crecimiento de las colonias de hongo y se analiza la fitotoxicidad de los tratamientos en semillas de P. radiata. F. circinatum y D. pinea respondieron de forma similar a los tratamientos testados aunque D. pinea fue, a menudo, inhibida a dosis ms bajas de fungicidas qumicos y ms altas de aceites esenciales que F. circinatum. Los tratamientos de termoterapia y con Trichoderma mostraron mayor eficacia frente a la cepa de D. pinea que frente a la de F. circinatum. La germinacin de las semillas de P. radiata fue altamente afectada por la aplicacin de aceites esenciales, causando un efecto inhibidor fuerte en la mayor parte de los aceites testados ( 92,25%, porcentaje de inhibicin de la germinacin).
23433423|Fluctuating and extreme changes in temperature during seed germination may disrupt several physiological processes. Developing easy and reliable screening techniques to identify cultivar tolerance to extreme temperatures would benefit crop breeding programs in selecting cultivars for niche environments. An experiment was conducted to study the influence of temperature on 12 ornamental pepper cultivars using in vitro seed germination parameters. Time-series seed germination responses at a range of temperatures from 10 to 45C with 5C increments were carried out and number of germinated seed recorded every six hours. Seed germination rate (SGR) and maximum seed germination (MSG) were derived from temperature and germination timecourse data by fitting a three-parameter sigmoidal function. Quadratic and bilinear functions best described SGR- and MSG-temperature response functions, respectively. Cumulative temperature response indices (CTRI) of each cultivar, calculated as the sum of eight individual temperature response indices derived from temperature adaptability range (TAR = Tmax to Tmin), Tmin, Topt, and Tmax, for SGR and MSG, were used to classify cultivars for temperature tolerance. Cultivars were classified based on CTRI(heat) as heat tolerant ('Medusa' and 'Treasures Red'), heat intermediate ('Thai Hot', 'Variegata', and 'Red Missile'), and heat sensitive ('Purple Flash', 'Salsa Yellow', 'Black Pearl', 'Chilly Chili', 'Explosive Ember', 'Calico', and 'Sangria'). Similarly, cultivars were classified for cold tolerance as cold sensitive, moderately cold sensitive, moderately cold tolerant and cold tolerant based on CTRI(cold). Screening based on seed germination parameters is a simple and inexpensive method for determining vegetative temperature tolerance in pepper breeding programs.
23433424|Jute mallow (Corchorus olitorius L.) is an important African leafy vegetable in Kenya. It is highly nutritious and has commercial importance. Jute mallow seeds exhibit dormancy, reducing seed germination and adversely affecting field performance, but limited research has been done on appropriate dormancy breaking methods. In this study, efficacy of various dormancy breaking methods was tested. Treatments included mechanical scarification, soaking in boiling water for 5 min, leaching, soaking in water for 24 h at room temperature, applying wood ash paste on the seeds, soaking in 1% KNO3 for 1 min, and a control. Analysis of variance and Scheffe's multiple comparison procedure were used to identify methods that significantly differed in seed germination from the control. The most effective treatment was mechanical scarification, followed by leaching and lastly soaking in hot water. The rest of the methods did not significantly differ from the control. It is therefore recommended that farmers use mechanical scarification to break dormancy in jute mallow seeds before sowing.
23433425|Some nanoparticles, like carbon nanotubes, can significantly change plant cell morphology and physiology. The effects of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) on seed germination and seedling growth of salvia (Salvia macrosiphon Boiss.), pepper (Capsicum annuum L.), and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) were studied at four concentrations (10, 20, 30, and 40 mg L-1) plus a control (0 mg L-1) under laboratory and greenhouse conditions. In the laboratory, application of SWCNT increased germination percentage compared to the control. The highest germination percentages for salvia, pepper and tall fescue were 59.6%, 92.9% and 72.9%, respectively. The best effect on seedling length was observed at 10 mg L-1 of SWCNT for salvia and pepper, and at 40 mg L-1 for tall fescue. In the greenhouse, 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT led to the greatest seedling length. In laboratory and greenhouse studies, 10, 20, and 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT had the most pronounced effects on seedling fresh and dry weights compared to the control. For most measured parameters, the highest concentration of SWCNT was associated with negative effects. Overall, the best seed germination and seedling growth for salvia and tall fescue were achieved at 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT, and at 10 mg L-1 for pepper.
23433421|Measurement of various morphological traits of common bean seeds and grouping of landraces collected from Uttarakhand was carried out using image analysis. Projected area, perimeter, major diameter, minor diameter and color of seeds were measured using image analysis. Colors were expressed in terms of RGB channels (red, green and blue) and HSL channels (hue, saturation and lightness). Images of 50100 seeds per landrace in three replicates were captured. All image analysis was carried out using ImageJ, a Java based, multithreaded, freeware image processing and analysis program. Weight of 100 seeds was also taken into account. All data were subjected to principal component analysis, where 90.9% of the variability was expressed and used to group landraces into clusters. Clusters were further refined by hierarchical clustering using the Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean (UPGMA), and the resulting dendrogram with cophenetic correlation coefficient of 0.97 grouped 26 landraces into four clusters. Analysis of variance revealed that only the color feature significantly discriminates these landraces.
23433427|This study investigated the influence of static electromagnetic fields on speed of seed germination of mung beans (green beans), measured as the number of germinated seeds after 24 h of incubation. Prior to germination, seeds were exposed to different types of electromagnetic fields (EMF), namely Helmholtz, north pole and south pole, and different field strengths of 5, 10, 30 and 60 millitesla (mT) at exposures of 15, 30, 45 and 60 min. Results indicated that speed of germination improved following exposure to south pole EMF compared to the control and the other two field types. Upon increasing field strength up to 10 mT, speed of germination improved, but decreased at higher field strengths. Increasing exposure period up to 45 min also led to improved speed of germination. The highest speed of germination was observed using a south pole EMF at 10 mT and an exposure period of 45 min.
23433426|Seed biochemical composition (protein, sugar, starch and free amino acid content) and percentage germination in seed lots of three important conifer species, Abies pindrow, Cupressus torulosa and Picea smithiana from Garhwal Himalaya, revealed significant differences among these species. The highest protein (30.41 mg g-1), starch (72.96 mg g-1) and free amino acid (5.512 mg g-1) contents were found in seeds of A. pindrow, maximum sugar content (71.78 mg g-1) in C. torulosa, whereas the highest germination (72%) was observed in P. smithiana seeds from Tapovan provenance. On the other hand, the lowest protein (8.51 mg g-1) and free amino acid (0.62 mg g-1) contents were found in seeds of C. torulosa, and sugar (2.68 mg g-1) and starch (0.86 mg g-1) contents in P. smithiana and minimum germination (34%) was observed in A. pindrow. Correlation studies suggested that there were no significant associations between altitude and any of the tested seed biochemical constituents. Additionally, no significant correlations were established between and among the different biochemical constituents, as well as germination, for all three species. Thus, exploiting natural variation and using appropriate seed accessions as planting material could be promising tools for large scale multiplication of these potentially useful conifer species.
23433428|Vigor testing is an important determinant of seed quality, providing supplementary information to a germination test. The objective of this study was to compare a 2-day-old seedling test for corn seed vigor assessment using the seed vigor imaging system (SVIS) to other established vigor tests. Six maize (Zea mays L.) seed lots were evaluated for water content, germination and vigor using various tests including seedling emergence, accelerated aging, cold test and SVIS. The 2-day-old SVIS test produced similar results to the other vigor tests, including the 3-day-old SVIS seedling test. Analysis of vigor index data for 2-day-old seedlings showed similar results to the 3-day-old seedlings and the other tests, and was sensitive enough to provide additional seed quality information along with germination test values. Based on these findings, the 2-day-old maize seedling vigor test using SVIS was an improved method for vigor testing; it was more rapid and required fewer resources than other vigor tests for this important crop.
23433202|The objective of this study was to invigorate medium vigor hot pepper seed using matriconditioning. In one experiment, medium (80% germination, 2 year-old) vigor seeds of hot pepper were subjected to various invigoration treatments. In the subsequent experiment, medium and high (95% germination, 1 year-old) vigor hot pepper seeds were subjected to matriconditioning treatment at 15C for 6 days using sawdust (210  particle size) moistened with 100 M GA3. In the later experiment, the ratio of seed to sawdust to GA3 solution in the matriconditioning treatment was 1:2:5. Seed quality of matriconditioned medium vigor seed was enhanced over the untreated seed as indicated by a higher percent of germination, improved vigor index, and speed of germination. The total protein isolated from matriconditioned seed was 16% higher than that from untreated. Meanwhile, total protein isolated from high vigor seed was 10% higher than that from medium vigor seed. Qualitative changes in the profiles of total protein isolated from matriconditioned seeds occurred within the 76, 45, 38, 30 and 20 kDa polypeptides. Matriconditioning with sawdust and GA3 offers an alternative for improving seed quality of hot pepper seeds.
23433205|Various methods of seed scarification including concentrated sulphuric acid, alcohol; methanol, ethanol, iso-propanol, butanol and hot water (100C), were applied on seeds of Tamarindus indica L. and Prosopis africana Guill and Peri., to improve germination and assess seed vigor. The highest germination and germination energy (Germ. En.) for T. indica occurred following pre-treatment in methanol for 10 minutes (70% germination; 42, Germ. En.), while better response was obtained for P. africana following pretreatment in ethanol for 10 minutes (58% germination; 38, Germ. En.), and Conc. H2SO4, for 5 minutes (60% germination; 38, Germ. En.).
23433207|Seed size and seed weight measurements were made for Lotus species from throughout the world range of the genus and correlated with growth habit, life form, breeding system, plant habitat and geographic distribution.
23433200|Testing for purity and viability of native species with deep dormancy can be difficult. A protocol is provided for obtaining a working sample, determining percent germination, determining total viability and reporting results for native species not included in the Rules for Testing Seeds (AOSA, 2001).
23433203|Dimensions of seeds of twenty different agricultural crops were determined by caliper measurements. Individual seed weights were obtained, and mean seed volumes were determined by air-comparison pycnometer measurements for use in determining seed densities. Seed densities ranged from 1.002 g/cm3 for safflower, Carthamus tinctorious L., to 1.460 g/cm3 for milled rice, Oryza sativa L. Test weight (bulk density) measurements were also taken and moisture contents were determined by standard tests. Collectively, these data supplement the limited seed density data currently available in the literature for reference. The product of three orthogonal dimensions (length, width and thickness) was calculated for each kind of seed. A volume coefficient was determined as the ratio of the measured mean volume to the orthogonal-dimension product. The dimensionless volume coefficients, which ranged from 0.222 for oil-type sunflower, Helianthus annuus L., seeds to 0.588 for sweetclover, Melilotus officinalis Lam., seeds, are useful in estimating seed volume from seed dimensional data. With use of the appropriate volume coefficient, seed density can be estimated for a particular kind of seed from seed weight and dimensions, and the potential utility of this concept is demonstrated for single lots of three kinds of seed.
23433199|Testing of native species lends many problems to seed analysts across the United States. Besides purity and germination decisions, there is also confusion encountered when reporting seed testing results. The Rules for Testing Seeds of the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA, 2000) require a four-part purity analysis, incorporating Handbook 25, Uniform Classification of Weed and Crop Seeds (AOSA, 1999), for determining what is other crop or weed seed. This causes problems for the analyst and the consumer. A three-part purity analysis as used by International Seed Testing Association (ISTA, 1999) combines both crop and weed seeds under one classification 'other species', which alleviates many of the problems encountered in reporting seed test results. Combining other crop and weed contaminates into one classification, which is represented as a single percentage, other species, on the label would harmonize seed trade around the world.
23433201|Variation in laboratory test results on native warm season grasses is a current issue in the seed industry. To determine if these concerns were real, samples of big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman), sand bluestem (Andropogon halli Hack), little bluestem [Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash], Indiangrass [Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash], switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) and side oats grama [Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx.) Torr.] were tested in three seed testing laboratories. Samples for each species were split from one seed lot and mailed immediately to two of the three laboratories. All seed lots were tested for purity, germination, dormant seed, tetrazolium, PLSV (pure live seed based on viability) and PLST (pure live seed based on tetrazolium) for each species within a time period of three months. The two seed lots of sideoats grama showed differences in viable seed, tetrazolium, PLSV and PLST among laboratories. The three seed lots of Indiangrass showed little variation among the three laboratories, except seed lot two which had differences in the percentage germination + dormant of 5 + 84 and 84 + 6 % when tested by laboratories A & B, respectively. Big bluestem seed lots had the greatest differences between laboratories of all species tested. The three seed lots tested showed variation in purity, germination + dormant and tetrazolium, however the PLSV responses on seed lots one and three were nearly identical. Two sand bluestem seed lots showed similar PLS responses between laboratories, however seed lot one had different viable and tetrazolium responses. Switchgrass responses for viable, tetrazolium, PLSV, PLST and pure seed were very uniform across the three seed lots and laboratories. Germination plus dormant responses on switchgrass did show significant differences. It appears variation is real between laboratories for certain tests and species. Six sources of variation were identified: 1) Non-flowable nature of seed units, 2) Maturity of seed units, 3) Seed company sampling and mixing uniformity, 4) Laboratory subsampling and mixing uniformity, 5) Purity testing methods and individual technologist, and 6) Viability and dormancy breaking methods used. Continued study and cooperation between seed companies and testing laboratories is needed to work towards further identifying and developing methods which reduce variation in test results of warm season native grasses.
23433197|Varying analysis reports on the same lot of seed in the chaffy rangegrasses create problems in marketing for the seed owner. Wide ranges in the percentage of pure seed for these difficult native species are reported when results are compared between laboratories and between analyses within a laboratory. This paper explains the procedures for obtaining the working sample in Andropogon gerardii, (big bluestem), Andropogon halli, (sand bluestem), Schizachyrium scoparius (little bluestem) and Sorghastrum nutans (Indiangrass). These four species have similar spikelet characteristics and thus can be considered as one for determining the percent pure seed methodology. The basics of determining what is classified in the Rules for Testing Seeds as a seed unit, and what comprises pure seed and inert are explained and shown so that an analyst unfamiliar with these species can successfully perform an accurate analysis. The proper steps and mechanics of conducting the purity analysis, proper sampling of the seed lot and methods to subdivide the submitted sample down to the working sample size are explained. Information on easier and faster ways to separate the filled seed units from the empty seed units is included as an aid to the analyst. With an understanding of the proper interpretation of procedures in the Rules for Testing Seeds the purity testing differences can be greatly diminished for these four species.
23433206|Reversed-Phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (RP-HPLC) of cereal grain proteins has received much attention in recent years as a quick and efficient means of cultivar identification. A study of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) and annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) was undertaken to determine if RP-HPLC could be adapted to the identification of these species. Chromatograms of different cultivars of the two species studied all had distinct peak patterns, which correlated with each kind. Protein analysis of single seeds accurately differentiated annual ryegrass seeds from perennial ryegrass seeds. Mixtures of ryegrass seeds were analyzed and compared. A lower limit of 10% annual ryegrass in perennial ryegrass was detected by monitoring changes of area under the peaks of the chromatograms. RP-HPLC was shown to be a quick, repeatable and reliable method of ryegrass species identification for a general screening of seed lots.
23433204|Poor stand establishment of vegetables is attributable to low seed vigor and high susceptibility to stressful biotic and abiotic soil environments. The objective of this paper was to describe the effect of matriconditioning integrated with fungicide, GA and biological seed treatments on performance of vegetable crops, and their effectiveness on physiological and biochemical changes. Matriconditioning ameliorated the performance of eggplant and tomato seeds in 1999 field plantings in Brazil. Reduction in time to 50% (T50) emergence in conditioned seeds ranged from 4 days in eggplant to 2 days in tomato. Further improvement in emergence rate occurred by inclusion of gibberellin (GA4+7) during conditioning. Eggplant and tomato seed germination is influenced by endosperm cell layer digestion by GA-induced enzymes, which reduce mechanical restraints to the embryo. Pre-sowing seed conditioning in the presence of Bacillus subtilis proved effective in increasing sweet corn shoot dry weight in the field, but the addition of GA during matriconditioning in sweet corn had a negative effect. Fungicide added to brittle genotype sweet corn seeds with or without conditioning improved the final percentage emergence by 140 and 125% when compared to non-conditioned seeds. Osmoconditioning with PEG reduced the emergence rate and shoot weight production of both hybrids. Electrolyte leakage was greater in brittle sweet corn seeds carrying the bt2 gene compared to the sugary type, and in both cases, matriconditioning reduced the leakage. Matriconditioning with or without biological seed treatment may be a feasible strategy in improving stand and yield of sweet corn of lower seed quality under tropical conditions.
23433196|Native species are planted to re-vegetate former cropland, degraded pastures and rangelands, mined lands, "natural areas", roadside right-of-ways, and other land management areas with plants, usually perennials, to stabilize and provide desirable classes of vegetation. Acceptable stands need to be obtained in a reasonable time. Seed of native plants varies widely in seed quality factors including seed size, purity, dormancy, germination, and vigor. Seed quality tests required for sale of native seeds usually include germination, purity, and hard or dormant seeds. These laboratory tests do not always predict the capability of a seed lot to establish a stand under field conditions and do not give the seed user enough information to determine planting rate. The number of emerged seedlings per gram of seed in species specific stress tests may be a method of quantifying seed quality that is predictive of the seed's capability of producing a stand under field conditions. A standardized establishment test based on a unit of weight could be used to directly calculate planting rates.
23433198|Native species are primarily undomesticated crops that possess high levels of seed dormancy. Seed technologists use prechill, predry, scarification, and leaching techniques during germination testing to break this dormancy. The objective of this report is to show that, while germination is increased, each of these approaches create seed stress that reduces seed viability and germination, thereby providing growers and buyers of native species incorrect information concerning the plant performance ability of the seed lot. To more accurately portray the seed quality of native species, it is proposed that a TZ test be conducted prior to the germination test to identify the viability of the seed lot followed by a germination test to determine the present performance potential of the seed lot.
23433237|It has been long debated among seed analysts whether to define caryopses (dry, indehiscent one-seeded fruit, as in grasses) with some degree of endosperm development as pure seed or inert matter. This study was conducted to evaluate the germinability of perennial ryegrass seed (Lolium perenne L.) that contain caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea and compare them with seed that contain caryopses at least one-third the length of the palea. Random samples from forty seed lots representing two cultivars harvested in 1999, 2000, and 2001 were examined. Florets with caryopses having some degree of endosperm development were separated from each sample and germinated following the AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds. One hundred single florets with caryopses one-third the length of the palea or more from each sample were also germinated as control checks. The germination of seeds with caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea was 0.33%, compared to 92% for seeds with more than one-third the length of the palea. The results suggested that florets with caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea should not be classified as pure seed, but should be classified as inert matter. If the AOSA Rules were changed, it would result in uniformity between the AOSA and ISTA Rules regarding this standard. In addition, including such seed in the inert matter of a sample would result in increasing the germination percentage.
23433235|Two methods, ocular measurements using a stereomicroscope and computerized image analysis, were compared to assess the usefulness of image analysis as an efficient and precise method to measure variation in fruit traits, such as fruit length. Individual fruits from nine plant species differing in size, shape, and the existence of dispersal-related structures were measured repeatedly with both methods. Results showed significant between-method differences in fruit length. Image analysis tended to overestimate fruit length, although differences between the two methods were very small. Both stereomicroscope and image analysis discriminated fruits of different sizes, whatever their shape, and no bias due to size was found in any case. However, low (though significant) correlations were found for measurements of elongated fruits with a tailed pappus obtained by both methods. Overall, we conclude that image analysis represents a good method to accurately estimate variation in fruit traits. The advantages of using image analysis are (1) the high amount of fruit parameters obtained with one single measurement, (2) the minimization of human errors, (3) the reduction of time needed to obtain large data sets concerning fruit trait variability, and (4) the possibility to estimate variability in traits of fruits with complicated shapes.
23433234|The effects of two seedling abnormalities: 1) curved hypocotyl forming a loop (CH) and 2) primary root split from the tip (PRS) on several growth variables and timing of bloom onset of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) plants were investigated. During early ontogeny plants developed from abnormal seedlings were shorter and had shorter internodes than those developing from normal seedlings. Total biomass was lower in plants from CH seedlings only. Internode formation, leaf production and root length at the end of the assessment period were not affected by either abnormality. Neither of the abnormalities affected timing of bloom onset. Seedlings with CH and PRS abnormalities appear to be capable of recovery during growth and to bloom normally. Further studies are necessary to determine how different types of peanut seedling abnormalities affect the yield of the crop under field conditions.
23433238|Two types of seed surface, smooth and wrinkled, in the seed lot of Dialium guineense Willd, were nicked, immersed in hot water at 100 and 50 C, soaked in HNO3 and H2SO4 and mechanically scarified to improve germination under both light and dark conditions. Smooth seeds treated with H2SO4 (5 min) and in boiling water at 100 C (5 min) resulted in high germination, 74% and 70%, respectively. However, among the wrinkled seeds, only the boiling water treatment at 100 C (5 min) resulted in 50% germination. Generally, seeds tested under light conditions were higher in germination than those in the darkness.
23433236|The identification of new markers for germination capacity, activities and electrophoretic patterns of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoforms were evaluated in artificially aged common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seed samples with different germination levels. The physiological determinations were carried out on seeds imbibed under aerobic (moist paper) and anaerobic (submersion in water) conditions. Under both imbibition conditions wheat seeds with low germination capacity (AA2 and AA3 samples) showed reduced water uptake, respiration, ADH and LDH activities, and high electrical conductivity of seed leachate. The seed characterized by intermediate germination capacity (AA1 sample) showed respiration quotient values 1.5 and 1.7 times higher than control seeds, respectively, after 6 and 12 h imbibition under aerobic conditions. At 24 h imbibition under aerobic or anaerobic conditions, the isoform profiles of LDH were the same for all seed samples. Patterns of ADH isoforms extracted from seeds imbibed under aerobic conditions showed no difference among aged seed samples. Imbibition under anaerobic conditions showed two clearly visible additional bands in the ADH electrophoretic pattern of high germination capacity seeds. These additional bands were not observed in the aged seed samples. Anaerobic conditions seem to amplify differences in ADH isoform pattern, that might be used as an indicator of high germination capacity in wheat seeds.
23433239|Healthy grains of Triticum aestivum (L) cv. HD-2204 were imbibed in 10-6, 10-8 or 10-10 M aqueous solution of 28-homobrassinolide (HBR) for 4, 8 or 12 hours. Treated seeds were then transferred to petriplates, lined with water soaked filter paper, for germination. It was observed, after 96 hours, that percent germination and the activity of -amylase were enhanced irrespective of HBR concentration and soaking duration. The maximum values for germination and -amylase activity were recorded in the grains soaked in 10-10 M of HBR for 4 hours, which were 60% and about four times more than the water soaked control, respectively. It was closely followed by the next higher concentration (10-8 M) of the hormone.
23433264|Ramon, Brosimum alicastrum Sw. (Moraceae), is one of the tropical native trees of the Yucatn Peninsula in Mexico with agroforestry potential. Almost one millon ramon seeds are sown in forest nurseries as part of the activities of the National Reforestation Program (PRONARE) in the southeast region of Mexico, however, there are so many gaps of information about the performace of ramon seeds that its propagation has been limited. The objectives of this study were: (1) to evaluate the emergence rate and early seedling growth of a sample of ramon seeds, the product of free pollination, and (2) to explore the relationships among the seed weight and growth of seedlings 50 days after the sowing date. The variables were: (1) seed weight, (2) emergence rate [days], (3) seedling height; (4) main root length; (5) stem diameter; (6) number of leaves, (7) stem and leaf fresh weight, (8) root fresh weight, (9) stem and leaf dry weight, (10) root dry weight, (11) sturdiness quotient, and (12) shoot/root ratio. The results of 184 observations for each variable, were subjected to descriptive statistics analysis and simple correlation analysis. The resulting seedlings showed high morphological variability that was significantly associated with the fresh weight of the seeds. Seed sizing is recommended to maintain standards for ramon nursery production, which can be achieved by seed selection before sowing.
23433271|Two liquid nitrogen storage experiments were performed on 51 tree species. In experiment 1, seeds of 9 western tree species were placed in a liquid nitrogen tank for 3 time periods: 24 hours, 4 weeks, and 222 days. A corresponding control sample accompanied each treatment. For three species, Calocedrus decurrens, Pinus jefferyi, and Pinus contorta, the germination percent was not significantly different from the controls in any of the liquid nitrogen treatments. Exposure to 24 hours of liquid nitrogen did not affect the germination percent for any of the 9 species compared to their controls. Two species, Abies x shastensis and Picea engelmannii, exhibited a significant negative response to 4 weeks exposure to liquid nitrogen. Four species Abies amabilis, Abies concolor, Pinus monticola, and Pseudotsuga menziesii, exhibited a significant positive response to the 222-day exposure to liquid nitrogen when compared with Control D. Experiment 2 examined the germination response to liquid nitrogen storage after a 24 hour exposure for 42 tree species. The germination percent for nine of the 42 species, Acer rubra, Celtis occidentalis, Lonicera tartarica, Malus prunifolia, Physiocarpus opulifiolius, Pinus banksiana, Pinus clausa, Pinus nigra, and Pinus rigida, was significantly affected by 24 hours exposure to liquid nitrogen. Liquid nitrogen exposure had a negative affect on germination for 7 species and a positive effect for 2 species, Pinus nigra, and Pinus rigida. Only 8 species had enough data to calculate the correlation coefficient between moisture content and germination after exposure to liquid nitrogen. Correlations were significant for 4 species. Two species, Abies fraseri and Liriodendron tulipfera had negative correlations; two species, Pinus ponderosa and Pinus taeda had positive correlations.
23433262|Beechnuts are deeply dormant and require long cold prechilling before they germinate (one to three months). The methodology of pretreatment without medium at controlled moisture content applied before or after storage is the best method to take into account the dormancy and the heterogeneity within a seedlot (consequence of the genetic variability). It allows a very fast and grouped seedling emergence in the nursery. However, this long prechilling often damages older, less vigorous seedlots. The effect of chemical treatments on dormancy breaking, in particular growth regulators, as a means of shortening the treatment, has been studied. In previous experiments ethephon was shown to strongly stimulate percentage and germination rate of freshly collected beechnuts and to reduce the duration of the cold requirement by half in comparison with the classical pretreatment which needs 4 to 20 weeks. In the present study ethephon + short prechilling (3 weeks) strongly stimulates germination and seedling emergence of beechnuts stored for 3 years at either 7 or 9% moisture content. It avoids the viability loss of less-vigorous beech seeds during longer prechilling (5 weeks) and allows restoring the initial potential of the seedlots. No significant effect of storage moisture content is observed on seedling emergence when seeds are short-prechilled with ethephon. Thus, ethephon used in association with short cold treatment opens new prospects for dormancy breaking particularly in nurseries where short prechilling are preferred.
23433270|Water-based pretreatments are used to reduce the great variety in germination parameters of conifer seeds. However, treatment results of Norway spruce seeds are frequently unsatisfactory. The aim of this work was to study changes in the germination parameters of spruce seeds during the multiphased pretreatment chain and the impact of seed structures on these changes. Furthermore we studied the effect of storage on germination indices of pretreated spruce seeds. Seeds were extracted using the ordinary method by sprinkling water on the cones or restricting that amount of water sprinkled on the cones. Cleaned and dried seeds were stored at -3 C for three months prior to IDS-treatment. The changes in germination parameters were studied using germination tests and radiography. Seed structures were observed using SEM. In general germination parameters of seed lots increased during the pretreatment chain despite the opening of the seed coat, which occurred in fungi-infected seeds already at the extraction phase. The seed coat usually opened from the micropyle almost as far as the edge of the nucellar cap. The IDS-treatment succeeded well, and the germination parameters in the best fractions were 1328% better than in the seed batches prior to IDS-treatment. The germination indices remained nearly unchanged during one year's storage at -18 C. This indicates that the large nucellar cap typical for spruce seeds protected the megagametophyte and the embryo during pretreatment phases and short-term storage. The results also pointed out how pretreatments should be improved to get them better adapted for spruce seeds.
23433268|Previously published reports indicated that germination of some tree seeds might be controlled by an endogenous germination periodicity. It is most important to confirm whether this phenomenon is true because it could affect laboratory seed testing. This study was designed to test this hypothesis with white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss), jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm.) seeds. Results of monthly germination tests over 12 months under laboratory conditions showed there was no consistent trend of endogenous control of germination periodicity in all three species tested. Variations were found in both the rate and total germination of P. glauca and P. contorta but only in the rate of germination of P. banksiana seeds; however, these variations were reduced by an extended photoperiod (16 hours) and almost completely eliminated by a moist chilling treatment.
23433266|Germination of Dalbergia cochichinensis Pierre seeds at various stages of maturity (green, yellowish-brown and dark-brown fruits) showed the presence of primary dormancy. The germination capacity (30 C/20 C  16h/8h light/darkness) was highest for seeds from green fruits (after a germination period of 28 days), followed by yellowish-brown and dark-brown fruits. After four weeks of storage, germination of seeds from yellowish-brown fruit was highest, while mean germination rate was lowest from seeds of green fruits.
23433265|The recalcitrant behavior of cherrybark oak (Quercus pagoda Raf.) acorns was examined in terms of effects of moisture content on seed storage longevity and (short term) seed germination. Seed samples collected over two consecutive years were fully hydrated, then subjected to drying under ambient conditions of temperature and relative humidity on the lab bench and sampled regularly for moisture determination (gravimetric analysis) and germination (greenhouse conditions). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) was used to follow changes in macromolecular structure as moisture and viability were lost. Transmission spectra were collected on dry and rehydrated samples of separate embryonic axis and cotyledon tissue. Long-term storage longevity was highly dependent on initial acorn moisture content. Germination was also highly dependent on short-term moisture content, and severely declined when seed moisture dropped below 17% (fresh weight basis). FT-IR analyses revealed significant differences in moisture and lipid profiles between embryonic axis and cotyledon tissue during short term drying. A strong absorbance near 1740 cm-1 in cotyledon tissue indicated a high concentration of ester carbonyl groups (storage lipids). Membrane lipid structure exhibited reversible shifts between gel and liquid crystalline phases upon drying and rehydration in both axes and cotyledons (peak frequency and bandwidth near 2850 cm-1); however, reversibility declined as viability was lost. Irreversible changes in protein secondary structure, illustrated by shifts in the amide absorbance near 1650 cm-1, were the most sensitive indicators of viability loss.
23433259|A slightly invasive biopsy procedure allows quantitative analyses while using computerized tomography (CT) for biodensity of morphology, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of mobile proton distributions for comparative physiology. The supplemental procedures provide a useful comparison of dormant and germinated seed tissues to correlate form, function, and amount of metabolic substrate during treatments and storage trials. CT uses thin, contiguous, nondestructive slices of single-plane images to identify and quantify area and volume in any tissues within a 5000 Hounsfield unit biodensity range. The data are expressed in either histograms of densities or numerical mapping of the same density units. MRI provides presence and distributions of the hydrogen ion density for bulk water and/or fatty acid molecules. These mobile hydrogen ion distributions are visually displayed by both area and volume (pixel and voxel determinations). The biopsy is a sample extraction through a 1.0- to 3.0-mm bore penetrating the seed coat. Chemical analyses, for example, nitric oxide synthase (NOS), are quantitative for elemental and organic changes in challenged tissue. NOS is a widely reported free radical functioning as a messenger molecule for both inter- and intracellular significance. Although NOS is not definitely shown to affect plant cellular metabolism, it is an assay and can be controlled using both enhancements and inhibitors.
23433260|Difficulties in tree seed supply, dormancy and germination mean that the majority of seed researchers have ignored temperate and especially tropical tree species in their studies. Examples of results from several comparatively large systematic investigations of tree seed dormancy and survival are presented. Although the responses might be regarded as complex, they tend to tally with those for other plant propagules.
23433269|Total seed DNA of naturally and artificially aged [accelerated aging test (AAT)] longleaf pine seeds was quantified and analyzed. No seeds germinated after 240 hr of AAT. Seeds in the forest condition lost germination after 180 days. Seeds in 4 C conditions maintained 50% germination in three lots after 360 days. Storage at 30 C caused significant decline in germination after 360 days. For artificially aged seeds, DNA followed a low-high-low pattern coinciding respectively to the more viable and non-viable state with peaks at the intermediate aging regimes. Three lots showed increases in DNA after 90 days under forest conditions. Increases are probably due to hyperchromism. DNA was stable for seeds stored in 4 C and 30 C conditions. Gel electrophoresis revealed DNA fragmentation after 144 hours of AAT and 90 days of natural forest conditions. Incipient signs of fragmentation were observed in seeds stored at 30 C. No fragmentation was observed in DNA of seeds stored at 4 C. Big molecular weight fragments were possibly formed through the crosslinking of liquid peroxidation by-products and DNA for the following treatments: 240 or more hours of AAT, 4 C after 360 days, and all seeds at 30 C conditions. DNA fragmentation and crosslinking are presumed critical in non-germination of longleaf pine seeds. Regression analysis revealed differences in the rate of change of DNA in the two aging regimes. The use of AAT to examine aging mechanisms may not be reliable. The high seed moisture contents and the massive fungal infection in AAT are probable reasons.
23433267|The course of germination events includes seed dormancy, its release, the preparation for cell elongation in the axes, early germination and postgerminative extension of seedling organs. The specificity of horse chestnut seeds is manifested in (1) their recalcitrance, (2) dominance of coat-imposed dormancy over embryo dormancy, (3) embryo dormancy breakage by cytokinins only and (4) growth initiation by cell elongation in the embryo axes up to an axis length of 3.03.5 cm, confirmed by cell length measurements and the absence of both mitoses and thymidine kinase activity. In horse chestnut seeds, the hormonal regulation differs during the progress from deep dormancy to seedling growth. Embryo dormancy is maintained by abscisic acid and is broken by cytokinins. Cell preparation for elongation proceeds in nondormant seeds and includes an accumulation of endogenous osmotica accompanied by cell wall loosening. The latter occurs via activation of plasmalemma H+-ATPase and extrusion of protons into cell walls, thus acidifying them. Cell elongation after radicle emergence is stimulated by gibberellins. These conclusions are in agreement with the data on dynamics of endogenous abscisic acid and cytokinins.
23433263|Responses of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) seeds to freezing temperatures after incubation for 5 days at 15 C were examined for dry (7%), 15%, 20%, 25%, and 30% moisture content seeds using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) to identify critical moisture content at freezing. In a complementary experiment, seeds of the different initial moisture contents were incubated for 2 or 5 days, and subsequently exposed to -5 C or -20 C during 2 days or 5 days, and tested for germination (21 days, 20 C). In the DSC experiments, seeds with higher moisture content (20%, 25%, and 30%) had significantly wider endothermic peaks (-30.51 J/g, -40.36 J/g, and -47.02 J/g) than seeds with lower moisture contents (15% and dry seeds; -6.94 J/g and -0.65 J/g). Germination capacity ranged from 97% (control) to 58% (30% moisture content, 5 days of incubation, 5 days of freezing at -20 C). Germination capacity after freezing was significantly higher (81%-83%) for seeds with moisture contents from dry to 20%, compared to seeds with moisture contents between 25%-30% (68%-72%). Seeds exposed to -20 C for 2 and 5 days had significantly lower germination capacity (72%) than seeds exposed to -5 C (80%83%). In conclusion, freeze damage increased with the combination of high seed moisture and decreasing below 0 C temperatures, and increased freezing duration. The critical moisture content of Scots pine seeds is between 150%20% according to DSC and germination tests. To enable autumn seeding, artificial seed coating should restrict water uptake under this critical moisture content during winter and allow for water uptake and germination in spring.
24642244|It is presumed that longevity of cells under cryogenic condition can be almost infinitely extended. Pre-cryopreservation treatments such as vitrification and desiccation have a positive effect on the seed's survival efficiency and the length of the preservation period under cryogenic conditions. Seeds of two Apiaceae species, Ferula gummosa and the endangered Kelussia odoratissima, were collected from different habitats in Iran. The seed samples were subjected to PVS2 (plant vitrification solution 2), desiccation, and 30% glycerol before being transferred into liquid nitrogen (LN) or 196 C for 1 week, 1 month, 1 year and 26 months. After seed removal from LN, seeds were exposed to a heat shock (42 C), washed, and evaluated under laboratory as well as greenhouse (22  4 C) and field conditions. High level of recovery from LN, based on evaluating seed germination and seed and seedling attributes, under laboratory and greenhouse conditions, revealed the cryogenic tolerance of the species' seeds. Plants which originated from cryopreserved seeds grew normally under greenhouse conditions and did not show any abnormalities compared to control plants. Lack of significant differences among most of the pre-cryopreservation treatments and storage periods indicated the success of long-term seed preservation of the species in LN. Because of high seed germination and other characteristics, in addition to successful Kelussia odoratissima establishment in the field, it is concluded that seeds of Ferula gummosa and Kelussia odoratissima can be preserved under cryogenic conditions using various pre-cryopreservation treatments.
24642247|The objective of this study was to determine the effect of sand roasting and steaming pre-treatments on the physical properties of nutmeg nuts. Pre-treatments contribute to energy consumption of processing, and ultimately the operational costs of shelling. The effects of pre-shelling treatments are also important for equipment design. Moisture content of nutmeg nuts and kernels significantly varied between the roasting and steaming pre-treatments. Nut length, width, and thickness were significantly affected by pre-shelling treatments, while arithmetic mean diameter, geometric mean diameter, aspect ratio and sphericity index did not differ among pre-treatments. Unit weight, angle of repose and compressive strength of nutmeg seeds were significantly affected by pre-treatments. Pre-treatments resulted in significant differences in bulk and true densities, but not in the porosities, of the nuts. The compressive strength of roasted and steamed nutmeg nuts decreased compared to raw nuts, and the coefficient of friction was significantly affected by both pre-treatments and material surfaces.
24642245|Priming appears to reverse the detrimental effects of seed aging by modulating pre-germination metabolic activity prior to radicle emergence. However, the impact of these metabolic changes on seed reserve utilization is not clear. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of hydro-priming on reserve utilization of three differentially aged seed lots (100, 98 and 89% normal germination) of chickpea. Results showed that reserve utilization rate of the most aged seed lot significantly decreased, compared with other seed lots. The highest conversion efficiency was obtained for the high quality seed lot and decreased with decreasing seed lot quality. Increasing seed aging led to significant reduction in germination rate and seedling dry weight, mainly due to a poor reserve utilization rate. The highest seed reserve utilization rate was recorded for high vigor and primed seed lots. Increasing seed vigor due to hydro-priming also resulted in increasing germination rate and seedling dry weight. The highest improvement in germination rate due to hydro-priming was observed in poor vigor seed lots. Therefore, hydro-priming can improve reserve utilization of differentially aged seeds and thereby enhance their germination rate and seedling size.
24642242|Internal seed morphology, germination and vigor were examined in Portulaca grandiflora and P. oleracea seeds using image analysis techniques, to assess the role of seed free space on germination and seedling vigor. Five lots of P. grandiflora and two lots of P. oleracea seeds were first X-rayed, and the radiographs analyzed with Image Pro Plus to measure the free space between the embryo and endosperm of each seed. Seeds were then germinated either immediately or after exposure to saturated salt accelerated aging conditions for 48 and 72 h. Seedling vigor was assessed with the Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS). Free space between the embryo and endosperm in seeds of P. grandiflora ranged from 0 to 4.6% as a proportion of the whole seed area for all lots examined, whereas for seeds of P. oleracea, the range was from 0 to 10%. The relationship between seed free space and germination of P. grandiflora was variable; two of the five lots showed a reduction in the proportion of normal seedlings as the seed free space increased. While there appeared to be no direct relationship between increased free space and reduction in germination and vigor of P. grandiflora seeds, for P. oleracea seeds the results indicated a negative effect of extensive free space on germination and vigor.
24642243|Test result uniformity across laboratories is critical for seed labeling and marketing. One challenge in grass seed purity testing is separating light-weight inert matter such as empty and under-developed florets. A uniform blowing procedure, without measuring air velocity or using master calibration samples, was used to separate lightweight inert matter from pure seeds in orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata) and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) for decades by the Association of Official Seed Analysts. However, the method had limitations including length of time required for blower calibration, need for repeated calibrations, and stability of standard calibration samples (SCS) over years. Orchardgrass SCS variation had been suspected by laboratories, leading to inconsistent test results among laboratories. This study's objectives were to measure variability among SCS in different laboratories and introduce a new blowing procedure using uniform master calibration samples (MCS) to determine the optimum blowing points (OBP) of orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass, and use equivalent air velocity (EAV) values to reproduce the OBP over time. Studies were conducted to develop and test the validity of using MCS and EAV to achieve consistent separation of light inert matter within and across laboratories for orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass. Using MCS enabled laboratories to find comparable OBP in their blowers and reduced variability in light inert matter separation. Using EAV allowed monitoring the correct setting of blowers accurately and quickly (2 min). The new method proved to be accurate, repeatable, simple to use, and assured uniformity in separating orchardgrass and Kentucky bluegrass light inert matter across laboratories.
24642235|Proposals involving changes and additions to the Association of Official Seed Analysts Rules for Testing Seeds are submitted annually. The rule proposals are voted on by AOSA members and by registered members of the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST) at their joint annual meeting. Appropriate guidelines for developing proposals are outlined.
24642248|Members of the genus Ziziphus are reported to have problems of dormancy that hamper uniform seed germination under nursery conditions. This study was conducted to assess the most viable propagation technique for Ziziphus spina-christi seeds under nursery conditions of Debre Zeit Agricultural Research Center. Seed germination was tested following cold and hot water treatments, each with four levels, and sulfuric acid scarification with five levels. Three independent experiments for each treatment type were conducted, laid out in a completely randomized design with four replications. ANOVA of germination results from cold water treatments showed no significant treatment effect. A significantly higher germination percentage was obtained from seeds treated with hot water at 85 C and left to cool at room temperature of 25 C for 12 h. Additionally, a significantly higher germination percentage was recorded by scarifying seeds with sulfuric acid (98%) for 30 min and subsequent rinsing with cold water before sowing. Very low and very high immersion times in sulfuric acid of 5 and 120 min, respectively, led to a significant reduction in germination.
24642239|The maximum genetic diversity of horse gram (Macrotyloma uniflorum) is considered to be in the Old World tropics, especially in India and the Himalayas. Identification of horse gram genotypes is of prime importance to ensure quality seed by identifying off-types in samples. Characterization based on morphological characters usually varies with environments, and evaluation of these traits requires growing the plant to maturity prior to identification. Therefore, 22 genotypes of horse gram were identified based on seed response to different chemicals tests, namely standard phenol, modified phenol, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, as well as isozyme polymorphism. Although no single chemical test was able to distinguish all genotypes, genotypes could be differentiated using an identification key combining the different chemical tests. Most genotypes were identified successfully using electrophoresis of isozymes, especially using esterase isozyme profiles.
24642237|Future seed testing needs for seed analysts and researchers are outlined by the author, who has over 25 years of experience in seed testing and has been the ISTA (International Seed Testing Association) Rules Chair since 2000. The different requirements for analysts, researchers, standardized testing methods and seed associations from a manager's perspective are provided. Future prospects are discussed and conclusions drawn. A major highlighted concern is the lack of structured training opportunities and funding for seed technologists and analysts. The need to raise the profile of people involved in the whole cycle of breeding, growing, testing and certifying seed and grain is identified as an industry need.
24642246|Knowledge about genetic variation and association between various seed characters of pea (Pisum sativum) is of vital importance to breeding programs aiming to produce improved varieties with high seed and seedling vigor. Forty genotypes of pea were evaluated for various seed vigor traits to obtain estimates of variability, heritability and genetic advance, as well as correlations, for different seed and seedling characteristics. Adequate variability was present for 100-seed weight, speed of germination, shoot length, root length, fresh seedling weight and vigor indices. The highest genotypic coefficient of variation was observed in total seedling length and vigor indices. Heritability was high for 100-seed weight, vigor indices, total seedling length and fresh seedling weight. High genetic advance was observed for total seedling length, one of two vigor indices and seedling root length. Seedling shoot length had a positive and significant correlation with seedling fresh weight, and speed of germination was correlated to one vigor index, seedling length and fresh seedling weight. On the basis of this study, it is suggested that test weight, root length, shoot length, germination index and vigor indices be considered in selection programs for seedling improvement of pea.
24642236|The reclamation seed industry is new compared to the agronomic seed industry. Reclamation species have unique characteristics not typically shared by agronomic species. Reclamation species may have varying levels of dormancy and are not usually planted for harvest. In contrast, agronomic species must have uniform maturity at the time of harvest, and if the seed planted does not produce that desired uniformity, it could have a reduced value or even be worthless. The rules for testing seeds have been written with species planted for harvest in mind. This article illustrates the differences between agronomic species and reclamation species. It offers suggestions to better address the seed testing and regulatory needs of reclamation species.
24642240|Quantitative information about temperature effects on germination components in safflower is scarce. The objective of this study was to describe the trend of cumulative germination at different temperatures and determine cardinal temperatures and thermal time for safflower germination. Three safflower cultivars, Esfahan, Goldasht and Padideh, were germinated at temperatures ranging from 540 C, with 5 C intervals. Germination was recorded from 714 d in 812 h intervals. Fitting a logistic function on cumulative germination data at different temperatures showed that maximum germination was obtained at temperatures of 530 C for Esfahan, 520 C for Padideh, and 1015 C for Goldasht. Optimal germination temperature was 30 C for Esfahan and Padideh, and 25 C for Goldasht. In addition, beta, dent-like and segmented functions were used to describe the relationship between germination rate and temperature. Response of germination rate to temperature was best described by a segmented function due to higher R2 and lower root mean square of deviations between predicted and observed hours to germination, and lower standard error for estimating function parameters. Using this function, base, optimum and ceiling emergence temperatures were estimated to be 5, 32 and 48 C, respectively. The physiological hour requirements for germination were 23 h for Goldasht, 17.8 h for Esfahan and 16.4 h for Padideh, equivalent to daily thermal time of 19.7, 28.9 and 16.7 C d1, respectively.
24642238|Fruit quality, productivity and seed germination of teak (Tectona grandis), collected from 38 seed production areas (SPA), were evaluated in 20022004. Selected SPA were distributed over five seed zones: Nilambur, Wayanad, Parambikulam, Konni and Achencoil, of Kerala state in India. The study revealed significant variations in fruit yield (2.3453.52 kg ha1), diameter (1.421.88 cm), test weight (67.76118.93 g) and number of seeds per fruit (0.781.41), both within and among seed zones. There was no year-to-year variation in seed germination. Overall mean germination of seeds collected in 2002 and 2003 was low, 9.37 and 10.14%, respectively. Significant variation in seed germination was observed in 2002 among the 38 SPA, from 035%. Similarly, germination of seeds collected in 2003 ranged from 0.835.5%. Seeds collected from SPA within the Wayanad zone exhibited a high degree of dormancy. Among the five seed collection zones, seeds from SPA in Nilambur and Konni had higher germination compared to seeds from SPA in Parambikulam and Wayanad, in both years.
24642241|The aim of this work was to quantify the effect of the pulp of Juglans nigra fruit during the stratification process on seed quality and initial root growth of black walnut. The presence of the pulp caused a significant decrease in the germination velocity index, increasing 11.6 times the mean time of maximum germination. Seed germination capacity was significantly reduced, and the proportion of dead seeds was increased at least 17 times. Furthermore, the presence of the pulp increased nearly four times the proportion of abnormal seedlings, as well as affecting seedling roots. The main root of seedlings from fruits stratified in the presence of the pulp showed lower length and diameter with no secondary roots, compared to fruits from which the pulp was removed after harvest. Similar effects were observed in lettuce (Lactuca sativa) seeds germinating in different media with increasing concentrations of an aqueous extract of the pulp of black walnut fruits, demonstrating the presence of inhibitors or phytotoxic compounds in pulp tissue. Abscisic acid (ABA) and jasmonic acid were detected in the pulp tissue. Measured ABA concentrations were higher than those reported for Fraxinus seeds that produced similar seed deterioration symptoms reported in this experiment.
24642270|The seed coat of white clover seeds (Trifolium repens L.) is one of the factors affecting seed imbibition, causing irregular germination as well as abnormal seedlings and hardseededness. The aim of the present work was to determine the level of dormancy in white clover seeds in terms of hydration speed, moisture content, weight and germination, using seeds from two crop harvests in Argentina. White clover seeds, cv. 'NK Churrinche', with physical dormancy had lower moisture content, lower weight and greater viability than non-dormant seeds. The moisture content of dormant seeds suggested better storability than non-dormant seeds. Water permeability varied among seeds, reflecting deep levels of physical dormancy, which in turn influenced seed physiological quality.
24642275|The aim of this work was to develop a specific X-ray machine to be used not only for research, but also for routine seed analysis. The machine consisted of an X-ray tube support column, tube stand, tube case, X-ray tube with a beryllium window, collimator, power supply, and grid cabinet. The machine had a 050 KVp and 0300 mA range and utilized 18  22 cm conventionally developed radiographic plates. The resulting X-ray images could be scanned and/or photographed to generate digital files. Diagramming radiographic patterns for each species could be a very helpful tool for the interpretation of seed quality tests. The machine, called RUTAX, used a non-destructive method and had potential as a useful tool for evaluating a wide variety of seed and fruit species with different structural characteristics, allowing frequent and fast monitoring with a high level of diagnostic reliability.
24642274|This work aimed to determine the optimal temperature and influence of photoperiod on the germination process of Geoffroea decorticans seeds, a multiple-use woody species. We used seeds from individual plants located in Ro Primero, Crdoba. The seeds were sown on paper towels in groups of 25, placed in germination chambers and tested under nine temperature regimes: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, alternating 30/20 and alternating 35/15 C  2 C, and two light conditions, a 12/12 h (light/dark) photoperiod and constant darkness. The effects of a 12/12 h photoperiod were studied on germination, time to 50% germination, germination velocity and light-related germination, while only percentage germination at the end of the test was evaluated under constant darkness. Germination of G. decorticans was higher than 50% within the 2040 C temperature range and at the alternating temperatures tested. The highest percentage germination (95%) was recorded at 30/20 C, but was not significantly different from those occurring at 25 (92%), 30 (90%), 35 (85%), or 35/15 C (83%). Therefore, seeds of G. decorticans could germinate within a wide range of temperatures and were light-neutral, although the highest germination occurred under alternating light conditions. El objetivo de este trabajo fue determinar la temperatura ptima y la influencia del fotoperodo sobre el proceso germinativo de Geoffroea decorticans, (especie leosa de mltiples usos. Se utilizaron semillas de individuos localizados en Ro Primero, Crdoba. Grupos de 25 semillas se sembraron sobre toallas de papel y se colocaron en cmaras de germinacin. Se ensayaron 9 regmenes de temperaturas: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 30/20 y 35/15 C  2 C y dos condiciones de luz: fotoperodo de 12/12 h, (luz/oscuridad) y oscuridad continua. Considerando el fotoperodo, se analizaron los parmetros: germinacin media, velocidad de germinacin, ndice de velocidad de germinacin y germinacin relativa a la luz. El parmetro evaluado en condiciones de oscuridad continua fue el porcentaje de semillas germinadas al finalizar el ensayo. G. decorticans registr porcentajes de germinacin superiores al 50% en el rango de 20 a 40 C  2 C y en las temperaturas alternas ensayadas. El mximo porcentaje (95%) se registr a 30/20 C  2 C, no existiendo diferencias significativas con las temperaturas 25 C (92%), 30 C (90%), 35 C y 35/15 C (83%)  2 C. Las semillas de G. decorticans germinan en un amplio rango de temperaturas, son indiferentes a la luz, pero los mayores porcentajes de germinacin se obtienen en alternancia lumnica.
24642268|The objective of this experiment was to assess the effects of exogenous ascorbic acid application on the vigor of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) seeds subjected to aging and salinity. Seeds were aged for 72 h at 45 C and 99% RH, in the dark, then germinated in paper imbibed with either deionized water (T2), 100 mM NaCl (T3), 0.85 mM ascorbic acid (T4), or 100 mM NaCl + 0.85 mM ascorbic acid (T5), in addition to a control treatment (T1; non-aged seeds with deionized water). T2 and T3 affected germination stages, reducing dry mass, membrane integrity and seed germination. T4 mitigated the effects of artificial aging on germination and vigor, resulting in a higher emergence speed index (ESI) and water content, as well as lower mean emergence time (MET) of seedlings. T5 reduced fresh mass, increased seed electrical conductivity and slowed germination, with lower ESI and higher MET. Results suggested that ascorbic acid application could mitigate the effects caused by aging, but was not able to attenuate the toxic effects of NaCl on aged cowpea seeds.
24642267|Seed priming has been successfully used to improve germination and seedling establishment of many vegetables and field crops. Laboratory tests and field experiments were conducted in 2011 and 2012 at the Urmia Research Station, West Azerbaijan, Iran, to evaluate the effects of hydro-priming, halo-priming with 2% KNO3, and osmo-priming with ZnSO4 (200 mM Zn) and KH2PO4 (50 mM P) on seedling vigor and field emergence of sunflower. Priming significantly improved seed germination, germination rate, seed vigor index, shoot, root and seedling dry weights, and reduced mean germination time and electrical conductivity of seed leachates, compared to the unprimed control. Hydro-priming was more effective in improving all studied parameters compared to priming with chemical salts. Effects of priming with ZnSO4 on germination traits, seed vigor and seedling dry weight were more pronounced than the effects of other halo-priming and osmo-priming treatments. Priming improved seedling emergence, emergence rate and emergence time. Priming with water and KH2PO4 resulted in higher seedling emergence and establishment in the field, compared to the control and priming with KNO3 or ZnSO4. Mean seedling emergence time was also reduced by priming, particularly hydro-priming. Hydro-priming is therefore a simple, low cost technique for improving seed germination and seedling emergence of sunflower.
24642271|Weathering damage in soybean (Glycine max) seeds wrinkles the cotyledons, cracks the seed coat and causes tissue death. The objective of this study was to assess weathering damage and relate damage severity with seedling symptoms and loss of viability, and show modifications of seed tissues with weathering damage using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Two soybeans seeds lots, cv. 'TMG115-RR', were subjected to X-ray and tetrazolium (TZ) testing and seedling assessment, to assess weathering damage. Moreover, seeds with or without weathering damage were inspected using SEM. X-ray image analysis as well as TZ and seedling assessment tests confirmed that weathering damage interfered with seed physiological potential, varying according to the extent and location of the damage. SEM images showed that the seed coat hourglass cells occurred near the hilum region and gradually decreased until they disappeared opposite to the hilum region, a region where typical wrinkles caused by weathering damage are observed. On the cotyledons, the cells in damaged seeds appeared lengthened and compressed, probably accounting for cell death in the damaged region. Danos por umidade em sementes de soja (Glycine max) causam enrugamento nos cotildones, rachaduras no tegumento e pode causar a morte dos tecidos das sementes. O objetivo deste estudo foi avaliar danos por umidade em sementes de soja e relacionar a severidade do dano com sintomas em plntulas e perda de viabilidade, alm de avaliar as modificaes nos tecidos das sementes danificadas por meio da microscopia eletrnica de varredura (SEM). Dois lotes de sementes de soja, cultivar TMG115-RR, foram submetidos ao teste de raios X e de tetrazlio ou  avaliao de plntulas para avaliar os danos por umidade. Alm disso, sementes com e sem danos por umidade foram submetidas ao SEM. Os resultados mostraram que a anlise de imagens por meio de raios X, o teste de tetrazlio e a avaliao de plntulas confirmaram que o dano por umidade interfere no potencial fisiolgico das sementes dependendo da extenso e localizao destes. Por meio das imagens de microscopia eletrnica de varredura foi verificada a presena de "clulas em forma de ampulheta" na regio prxima ao hilo a qual decresce at o total desaparecimento na regio oposta ao hilo, regio onde usualmente so observados sintomas tpicos de enrugamento causados pelos danos por umidade. Nos cotildones, as clulas de sementes danificadas se apresentam alongadas e comprimidas, o que provavelmente  a razo da morte celular na regio danificada.
24642273|Oregon is well known for seed production of the amenity grasses Poa pratensis (Kentucky bluegrass) and P. trivialis (rough bluegrass). However, little is known about weed seed and ergot contamination of certified Oregon Poa spp. seed. This study was conducted to assess the diversity and frequency of occurrence of weed seeds and sclerotia of the fungus Claviceps purpurea (ergot) in certified seed lots of P. pratensis and P. trivialis based on purity analysis at the Oregon State University Seed Laboratory during 19861995 and 20022012. For P. pratensis, 155 different weed seed contaminants were detected, with 113 identified to species, 39 to genus and 3 to family. For P. trivialis, 26 contaminants were identified to species and 14 to genus. Between 20022012, the percentage of seed lots per year with no weed contaminants ranged from 4875% and 4368% for P. pratensis and P. trivialis, respectively, indicating consistent high quality standards for Oregon certified seed. Between 19852012, the number of new contaminants in P. pratensis increased at the rate of three per year. In P. trivialis, only one new contaminant species was detected after 2007. The percentage of P. pratensis or P. trivialis seed lots with ergot ranged from 2261%, and 010% respectively, depending on year. This study documented a wide and increasing diversity of weed seed contaminants, especially in P. pratensis, and revealed that although the level of ergot from year to year is variable, ergot remains a persistent problem in P. pratensis seed production fields and as a post-harvest seed contaminant.
24642272|Iso-osmotic potentials using PEG-6000 and NaCl solutions (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 bar) were used for germination of Thymus fedtschenkoi, T. migricus and T. daenensis. At iso-osmotic potentials, seeds in saline solutions germinated at a higher rate compared to those incubated in PEG-6000 solutions. Germination significantly decreased at 4 bar and dropped to zero at 10 bar under drought, while under salinity it decreased at 8 bar but did not fall to zero even at 12 bar. Under both salinity and drought, effects on germination and seedling development parameters were the same at low stress levels (2 bar), but differed at higher stress levels. When exposed to salinity stress, germination of T. migricus was lower than that of T. daenensis and T. fedtschenkoi. Root branching decreased due to both drought and salinity, and the maximum number of secondary roots was observed in T. daenensis seedlings, while the lowest was observed in T. fedtschenkoi seedlings. Early seedling growth was more sensitive to drought and salinity than seed germination. Germination and early growth of thyme seedlings was more sensitive to drought than salinity. Differences in response of seeds and seedlings to drought and salinity at the same osmotic potential was probably due to differences in molecular size of PEG and NaCl, resulting in different rates of entrance of these molecules into cells, consequently affecting water uptake of cells.
24642269|Hyacinth bean is a legume used as a vegetable, forage and ornamental plant. Many accessions do not flower during their juvenile period in Byron, Georgia. Other accessions produce few seeds when regenerated in the field. This study was conducted to develop a hydroponic cloning and nutrient film technique (NFT) for seed regeneration from juvenile, freeze-sensitive hyacinth bean accessions and a low seed-producing accession. Twenty-five juvenile and freeze-sensitive accessions were planted at Byron, GA during 2011. Four mature stem cuttings per accession with 3 true leaves were placed in a hydroponic cloning system inside a greenhouse during the fall of 2011. Most cuttings developed healthy root systems after 12 weeks. Two to 4 well-developed stem cuttings per accession were transplanted to potting soil and placed in a greenhouse. Fourteen 30-d-old seedlings from a low seed-producing accession grown in potting soil were placed in an NFT system inside a high tunnel during the first week of May, 2011. Seed numbers ranging from 20 to 1,127 per accession were regenerated from clones, while 1,629 seeds were regenerated from plants growing in the NFT system. The coefficient of variation for seed number was 59%, indicating fairly low variation. Cluster analysis grouped most accessions into well-defined phenotypes based on plant size. Principal component analysis indicated that the first principal component was most correlated with branching and seed yield. Hydroponic cloning and NFT were successful in rescuing juvenile and freeze-sensitive accessions for seed regeneration and consequent evaluation of phenotypic variation.
23433355|Seeds of three varieties of cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata), cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis), canola (Brassica napus), sugar beet (Beta vulgaris), pak-choi (Brassica compestris) and radish (Raphanus sativus) were investigated for their germination percentage, germination rate (1/t50, where t50 is the time to 50% of germination), root and shoot lengths, Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations (ions lost during soaking for 36 h in different NaCl solutions) in four salinity treatments including 0.0 (control), 4.7, 9.4 and 14.1 dS m-1 NaCl. Linear regression revealed a significant negative relationship between salinity and germination percentage, germination rate, root length, shoot length and Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations. There was a positive relationship between salinity and Na+ concentrations. Multiple regression equations were developed to predict the relationship between chemical factors (ions leached from seeds due to salinity) and biological parameters (germination percentage, germination rate and root and shoot lengths affected by salt stress). These equations show that Na+ had a significant negative relationship with germination rate, but a significant positive relationship was observed between Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations and germination rate. It was shown that root length had a significant negative relationship with Na+, but a significant positive relationship existed with Ca2+. Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ had a significant negative relationship with shoot length. A non-significant relationship was found between Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and K+ and ratios of K+/Na+, Ca2+/Na+ and Mg2+/Na+ concentrations with germination percentage. These equations provide a simple and rapid method based on chemical analysis and germination tests for determining salt tolerance in different vegetables.
23433359|Germination properties, including germination rate, germination percentage and cardinal temperatures, of eight wild medicinal species from Iran were studied. The seeds of the eight medicinal plants were exposed to germination temperature treatments ranging from of 5 to 35 C consisting of seven constant and three alternating temperature regimes. A linear model was applied to describe the germination rate-temperature relationship. The species studied using constant germination temperatures showed the highest germination percentages in the range of 2030 C for Nepeta binaludensis and Nepeta crassifolia, 1520 C for Zataria multiflora, 2025 C for Nepeta glomerulosa, 2530 C for Dysphania botrys and 1530 C for Thymus kotschyanus, Rubia tinctorum and Achillea millefolium ssp. elburensis. The highest germination percentage and germination rate were observed at alternating temperatures of 2030 C for Nepeta binaludensis, 1020 C for Zataria multiflora, Thymus kotschyanus, Nepeta glomerulosa and Nepeta crassifolia, and, 1020, 2030 C, for Dysphania botrys. The various species showed clear differences in the temperature requirements of their seed for germination. Both germination percentage and rate were higher at constant than alternating temperatures. The highest base (Tb C) and optimum temperatures (To C) were observed in Dysphania botrys, while the highest critical temperature (Tc C) was recorded for Rubia tinctorum. There was a positive linear relation between temperature at which the highest germination percentage was obtained at To, but this relationship was negative for Tb.
23433352|The effect of harvesting and processing operations on the quality of hybrid maize seeds was studied to identify those operations that cause the greatest damage. Three single-cross maize hybrids, 'Ulla', 'Benicia' and 'Dea', differing in their susceptibility to mechanical damage, were subjected to manual and mechanical processing during harvesting to grading. Following processing, seeds were stored at -20 C and at ambient temperate room conditions. Standard germination, accelerated aging and two cold tests were performed every four months to assess seed quality over a 15-month storage period. The post-shelling operations of cleaning and grading caused the greatest damage. More than all other operations combined, grading caused the most damage to round seeds, irrespective of the degree of susceptibility. Mechanical damage affected seed storability more than viability and vigor. Flat and large seeds were more tolerant to mechanical damage than round and medium-sized seeds. Seed shape influenced susceptibility to mechanical damage much more than seed size.
23433357|Fruit and seed development in Acer caesium is described for trees growing in montane, temperate forests of the western Himalayas of India. Fruits of A. caesium were harvested during 1997 and 1998 at biweekly intervals after anthesis until maturity. Changes in physical characteristics of samaras and the percent seed germination during developmental stages were recorded. Seeds matured around 210225 days after anthesis (DAA). With maturation, pericarps and testae turned dark brown in color. This stage coincides with minimum fruit and seed moisture content and maximum germination percentage. Moisture content in both intact samaras and seed (hulled) showed an abrupt decline during the final phase of maturation and stabilized around 1214% in mature seed. Dry weight accumulation ceased before seed attained physiological maturity. The study revealed that A. caesium seeds underwent a tri-phasic development, that is, growth, reserve accumulation and desiccation.
23433360|Successful propagation of Selinum wallichianum, a high value medicinal plant of the Himalaya, requires development of methods to overcome its seed dormancy. While seeds collected from alpine and subalpine provenances spanning the range of this species were found to be viable, only 46.7% and 24.5%, respectively, of the seeds germinated without any pre-sowing treatment. Chilling (4 C) for 14 days improved the germination percentage of seed from both provenances compared to the control. Also, 100 ppm KNO3 pre-treatment for alpine and 500 ppm for subalpine seeds improved the percent germination significantly over the control. Higher concentrations of KNO3 (> 500 ppm), however, reduced the percent germination of seeds from both provenances. Use of 100 ppm GA3 improved the germination percentage and lowered the mean germination time (MGT) compared to the control for seeds from both provenances. Improved germination responses to chilling treatments corresponds well with natural conditions where S. wallichianum seeds are covered with snow during the winter. Response to chilling and GA3 treatment implies Intermediate Complex Morpho-Physiological Dormancy (MPD) of S. wallichianum seeds.
23433356|The ability to predict the number of days for seeds of four Hypericum species (H. perforatum, H. bupleuroides, H. nummularioides and H. pruinatum) to germinate was investigated by using mathematical models based on temperature. A model, D = a - (b  T) + (c  T2), was used that previously predicted the time to emergence in relation to temperature for some vegetable crops and was unchanged when applied to the Hypericum spp. In addition to determining optimum seed germination temperature (T0 = -b/2  c) in the tested species, days to germination was calculated by using coefficients obtained from regression models. Considering the marked interest by many researchers in modeling plant growth and development in recent years, the equations produced in this study may be helpful in this field. Models that predict days to germination or optimum temperatures could be used to adjust for an optimal time for sowing seed in different regions and thereby utilizing the growing season of these regions more productively.
23433353|An enzyme that rapidly catalyzed the hydrolysis of denatured DNA was partially purified from germinated gram (Cicer arietinum) seeds and its molecular weight was found to be 45,000. The nuclease was studied for its endonucleolytic activity in comparison to single-strand-specific nuclease from germinated pea (Pisum sativum) seeds. As with pea seed nuclease, the gram seed nuclease exhibited an affinity towards single-stranded DNA and showed a higher affinity towards depurinated DNA. The temperature optima of both enzymes fall in the same range (40 C for heat denatured DNA and 60 C for native DNA). The nucleases from gram and pea seedlings degraded native DNA in a similar fashion at elevated temperature and exhibited maximum activity at pH 7.5. Both enzymes were affected by the same chemical agents among which Mg2+ and Ca2+ had stimulatory effects. However, Mn2+ and EDTA had no effect, and Zn2+ and 8-hydroxyquinoline were inhibitory on both nucleases. Under high salt concentration, enzymatic activity of both enzymes was inhibited. Native, denatured, alkylated, depurinated and crosslinked DNA were also tested as substrates for nuclease activity with pancreatic DNAase I, which degraded all DNA substrates at approximately equal rates. The degradation of native DNA by gram and pea seed nucleases was only 4 and 5%, respectively, in comparison with that of denatured, alkylated, or depurinated DNA; whereas, crosslinked DNA was not degraded by either gram or pea seed nucleases. These data suggest that the enzyme from germinated gram seeds is a single-strand-specific deoxyribonuclease.
23433358|Small broomrape (Orobanche minor) is an obligate parasitic weed that attacks the roots of a wide range of broadleaf crops, resulting in varying degrees of economic loss. Red clover (Trifolium pratense) is one of the most common host plants that can suffer considerable yield reduction, particularly with heavy Orobanche infestation. The objective of this study was to develop a laboratory test to detect the presence of Orobanche seed in red clover. The test was based on differences in seed size and density between red clover and broomrape. The recommended procedure for detection of Orobanche in red clover includes two main steps: 1) separation of Orobanche seeds from red clover by screening samples through a round-hole perforation sieve with a hole diameter of 1.04 mm using a seed shaker; and 2) visual examination of the screened portion using a microscope with a 40X magnification to detect the presence of Orobanche seed. Knowledge of seed color, shape, and texture of Orobanche is critical for proper identification. The test can detect the presence of one Orobanche seed in 453 g (1 seed/lb) red clover seed, which is the recommended working sample size for the test.
23433354|Crop production faces stringent problems due to increased salinity, but salt tolerance can be induced effectively by pre-sowing seed treatments. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of pre-sowing seed treatments on germination and vigor of wheat (Triticum aestivum) cv. 'MH-97' under saline and non-saline conditions. Seeds were subjected to hydropriming, osmoconditioning, halopriming with CaCl2.2H2O (50 mol m-3) and NaCl (50 mol m-3), chilling (-19 C) or hardening (one cycle) for 12 h. All of the invigoration techniques except osmoconditioning and hardening were effective in alleviating adverse effects of salt stress on wheat at germination. Hydropriming proved to be the most effective followed by halopriming with CaCl2.2H2O, NaCl and chilling treatments as expressed by the final germination percentage, root and shoot dry weight, root and shoot length and root-shoot ratio. The concentration of Na+ and K+ increased more in seedlings sown under saline conditions than under non-saline conditions. The Na+ concentration of seedlings was significantly increased by NaCl priming while other treatments had no effect on Na+ or K+ concentration. This study indicated that wheat grown under saline conditions can be improved by pre-sowing seed treatments.
23433638|Eastern gamagrass [Tripsacum dactyloides (L.) L.] is a warm-season, perennial grass native to large areas across North America. Plantings are commonly established from seed, but seed quality is a barrier to establishment. The objective here is to review the standard laboratory purity method and to outline a germination protocol that can be used for routine assessment of eastern gamagrass seed lots for planting purposes. A survey of 21 laboratories determined that at least 9 germination procedures are currently in use. A comparison of a single seed lot as reported by 10 laboratories was used to determine variation in test results. Additional seed lots were germinated on substrates with and without KNO3 and subjected to prechilling and presoaking treatments. Based on the results presented here, a preliminary germination method using between blotters, blotter-lined Petri dishes or rolled towels as the substrate, and a germination temperature regime of alternating 20/30C, with count dates of 7 and 14 d is recommended for routine laboratory analysis.
23433639|Seed osmopriming can be a sustainable method of improving crop establishment, uniform emergence and field growth. Laboratory and greenhouse studies were carried out during the 2010 cropping season in Sokoto, Nigeria, to study the effect of seed osmopriming duration on the germination, emergence and growth of sorghum seeds. Treatments consisted of 3 osmopriming durations (imbibing seeds in 1% KNO3 salt solutions for 6, 8 and 10 h), a hydropriming treatment (imbibition in water for 10 h) and an unprimed control. Treatments were laid out in a completely randomized design replicated 4 times. Osmopriming and hydropriming resulted in higher seed germination, emergence, plant height and dry matter accumulation compared to the unprimed control. Both hydropriming and osmopriming of sorghum seed can be used for improved field performance. However, osmopriming in KNO3 salt solutions for at least 6 h resulted in better field establishment and seedling growth than hydropriming.
23433640|Canebrakes [stands of Arundinaria gigantea (Walter) Muhl.] provide important wildlife habitat, promote stream bank stabilization and improve water quality, making them ideal focal points for riparian restoration projects. However, availability of viable seeds for seedling production is limited due to infrequent flowering events, naturally low seed viability, the recalcitrant nature of seeds and failure of flowering stands to produce seeds. The purpose of this study was to examine seed storage methods that can extend stored seed viability and germination for future use in rivercane seedling production for restoration programs. To evaluate effect of container type and storage temperature, seed germination percentages were compared for two storage container types, paper and plastic bag, at three storage temperatures, -5, 5, and 21 C, over 5 months. The highest germination was for seeds stored at sub-zero temperatures (-5 C) in plastic bags. Rivercane seed is recalcitrant in nature, requiring storage methods that assure moisture retention and low temperatures that minimize cellular metabolic processes.
23433642|Okra [Abelmoschus esculentus (L.) Moench] is one of the most important vegetable crops grown extensively throughout India during the summer and rainy seasons. Apical bud pinching, or nipping, is a well-known practice for breaking apical dominance to encourage lateral growth, thereby increasing the potential fruiting area. Growth, productivity, and seed quality are increased with pinching at early compared to later stages of growth, providing sufficient time for regeneration of vegetative parts, enhancing production of branches, and also resulting in increased photosynthetic activity, accumulation of more photosynthates, and ultimately resulting in increased seed size and yield. In this paper, the effects of apical pinching on growth, yield and quality of okra are reviewed, with a view to promoting this practice in commercial production, as well as presenting information about associated field management practices and special treatments for obtaining higher okra yields.
23433637|Maintaining the genetic integrity and performance of released cultivars over multiple generations of seed increase continues to be of concern in cross-pollinating grasses. It is not an uncommon practice when seed supplies are low or foundation seed is not available to designate registered seed as foundation seed (re-foundationed), which adds one or more certified generations to the cultivar. Russian wildrye [Psathyrostachys juncea (Fisch.) Nevski] is a cross-pollinating, cool-season, bunchgrass native to steppe and semidesert regions of Eurasia. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was used to test the effect of additional generations on the molecular genetic diversity and linkage disequilibrium within and among original foundation seed (1986), re-foundationed seed from registered seed (1992) and certified seed (2002) of the cultivar 'Bozoisky-Select', along with cultivars 'Vinall' and 'Mankota'. Average similarity coefficients within generations fell from 0.6031 in original foundation seed to 0.5920 in certified seed four generations later, while the average similarity coefficient between generations fell from 0.6031 to 0.5826, respectively. Principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) grouped individuals of Vinall and Mankota into their respective groups, and grouped all Bozoisky-Select individuals into one indivisible group. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) trended toward a loss of LD over generations of seed production, but the change was not significant. Although there were slight decreases in genetic similarity over four generations of seed production, the changes were not enough to cause subdivisions of Bozoisky-Select seed using PCoA. The re-foundation of seed from registered seed in 1992 did not result in significantly decreased LD in the 2002 certified Bozoisky-Select seed.
23433634|A laboratory experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of halo priming on germination, seedling growth and lipid peroxidation of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seeds under salinity stress. The experimental design was a two-factor factorial arranged in a completely randomized design, with six replications. The first factor was salinity level (0 and 100 mmol NaCl) and the second was priming treatment (1, 2 and 3% NaCl and KNO3 solutions). Under salinity stress, seed priming significantly improved germination and seedling fresh weight and decreased mean germination time and lipid peroxidation, compared to the control. Seed priming with 1 and 2% solutions of KNO3 significantly improved germination, seedling growth, and peroxidase activity, and decreased lipid peroxidation compared to NaCl priming. Potassium nitrate priming treatments are simple, cheap and do not involve expensive chemicals and sophisticated equipment.
23433636|Group testing methods are used for classifying and estimating a proportion when the response is binary (0 or 1) and the proportion to be estimated is lower than 10%. Group testing techniques are becoming increasingly popular due to their considerable savings in time and money compared to more traditional testing methods. Until now, group testing formulas derived for determining sample size when classifying or estimating a proportion have been based on the assumption of an infinite population. However, in many cases, the population is finite and appropriate formulas are needed to determine sample size. For this reason, a new formula is proposed to determine the required sample size for estimating the proportion (p) that ensures narrow confidence intervals (CI) in finite populations with imperfect diagnostic tests (tests whose sensitivity and specificity are less than 100%). With this formula there is a  probability that the (1-)100% confidence interval will be narrower than a specified value, . The proposed formula determines the number of groups (gF) needed to estimate the proportion of interest and ensures with high probability that the observed CI will be narrower than . We show how to use the proposed formula and provide tables relevant for practical applications. Finally, we present an R program that may be used to determine sample size for finite group testing problems.
23433641|A recent Brazilian law (IN no. 1 of February, 2010) regulated the use of agrochemicals for crops classified as minor crops, i.e., small-scale crops that do not generate enough economic returns to justify investments in developing specialized pest control products by the chemical industry. The law was a step forward in the use and control of agrochemicals for species that previously had no approved pesticides, and for which producers often used either inappropriate or contraband products to satisfy pesticide needs. Unfortunately, this inappropriate use is still the case regarding seed treatment, and it negatively impacts seed and crop exports. It also diverges from appropriate crop production methods that utilize environmentally sound practices with minimal use of pesticides per unit area. A law addressing minor uses for seed treatment is of fundamental importance, and the recent development of laws regulating minor uses of products for crops of lower economic importance is an important step towards extending these minor uses to seed treatment.
23433635|Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is widely grown across Nigeria, but there is a dearth of information on best production practices yielding high quality seeds of improved varieties, which is indispensable for increasing productivity. Field experiments were conducted during the growing seasons of 2008 and 2009 at Ilorin, Southern Guinea Savanna of Nigeria to determine appropriate planting dates under rainfed conditions that would yield high quality seed. Five improved varieties were planted over a period of 4 months (June, July, August and September) each year. Data was collected on yield, seed quality and related traits. Significant differences in mean seed yield attributable to plant date effects were detected each year. In 2008, the highest seed yield was recorded for the July planting with a mean value of 1681.35 kg ha-1. In 2009 however, the highest seed yield was recorded for the August planting (1914.49 kg ha-1). In both years, cowpea varieties took longer to attain 50% maturity when planted in August while those planted in September matured earlier than plants from seeds planted in other months. Significantly higher incidence of Choanephora pod rot and Cercospora leaf spot were observed for June plantings each year. Seed lots from August and September plantings resulted in significantly higher germination than those planted in June and July. August was recommended for planting cowpea in Ilorin and its environs for optimum seed yield with high quality, but with continuous monitoring of rainfall patterns.
23433631|The overall aim of seed testing is to give reassurance about seed quality to those involved in international trade in seed and to end-users. The significance and importance of using seed tests based on research and validation before inclusion in the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA), Rules for Seed Testing, is emphasised, with reference to the physiological aspects of seed quality, germination and vigor. The reduced germination rate following aging, as measured by mean germination time (mean delay to radicle emergence), is interpreted as the time needed for the metabolic repair of the deleterious effects of aging before germination can proceed. Evidence in support of this seed aging/repair hypothesis is presented from recent internationally co-ordinated research and by a re-examination of existing vigor tests (accelerated aging, controlled deterioration, cold and cool tests and so-called seedling growth tests). This hypothesis is the basis of a rapid, new vigor test, the radicle emergence (RE) test, which has been validated and introduced to the ISTA Rules for maize. Advantages of the RE test and its application to a wide range of other species are described. Aging not only delays RE but also increases leakage from the seeds, the level of which relates to their ability to produce a normal or abnormal seedling. This leads to the possible application of measurements of leachate conductivity to assess germination and in vigor tests. The potential for using molecular methods to test seed quality through detection of DNA damage, ligase activity and other cellular damage is discussed.
23433397|Genotype discrimination of germplasm collections is an essential function of gene banks, enabling efficient delivery of genetic resources to researchers and the seed industry. Seed morphometric measurement by digital imaging analysis has been identified as a fast and reliable method for this task. In this study, 10 seed morphometric variables, namely seed length, seed width, seed thickness, seed diameter, seed area, embryo angle, shape factor, roundness factor, flatness index and circularity index were determined using captured seed images of 20 accessions of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) landraces from germplasm collections at the National Centre for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (NACGRAB) gene bank, Nigeria. Digital seed metric data were subjected to principal components analysis. Shape factor, seed area, length, width, diameter, roundness factor and flatness index had the highest eigenvectors in the first principal component, which accounted for 72.9% of total variance. These variables thus constitute potential descriptors for cultivar discrimination of pepper seeds by digital imaging analysis. Single linkage clustering analysis based on seed size and shape metrics resulted in two major clusters and two minor clusters of the Nigerian pepper landrace collections. Such clusters constitute a classification tool for genotype discrimination when evaluating cultivar identity by seed metrics, and can thus improve management efficiency of genetic resources for pepper breeding.
23433403|Miscanthus sinensis can propagate through seed. However, there is little information regarding seed germination requirements. The objective of this study was to determine the optimal germination temperature requirements for the species. Seed germination was studied using a two-way thermogradient table without light. The temperature gradient in the table had 30 cells with alternating day/night temperatures and 6 cells with constant temperatures. The constant temperature cells were 10, 16, 22, 28, 34, and 40 C, and the alternating temperature cells were a combination of these same temperatures. Fifteen of the alternating temperatures were higher for 16 h and lower for 8 h. The other 15 alternating temperatures were higher for 8 h and lower for 16 h. Seeds exposed to alternating temperatures showed a higher germination percentage value than those at constant temperatures. The highest germination percentage was recorded in cells with a temperature combination of 16 C for 16 h and 22 C for 8 h. These results are important to seed analysts developing a standard germination protocol for Miscanthus sinensis seed.
23433400|Enumerating seeds present in the soil is an element of many studies in disparate fields. Chemical flotation, in which target material is floated to the top of a liquid solution, is a common methodology for recovering seeds from the soil. Traditionally, target material is then decanted from the flotation solution by repeatedly skimming the surface with a net. However, this traditional method can be biased toward species with low relative densities. This study reports on the development of a novel method of decantationthe valve methodand compares its performance to the traditional net-skimming methodology. Specifically, we compared effectiveness (proportion of seeds recovered from a known sample), rapidity (time required to decant that sample), efficiency (number of seeds decanted per second), and recovery bias (effect of relative density on seed recovery). We used each methodology to decant a flotation solution containing a known quantity of soil and seeds (20 replicates per method). Our proposed method was approximately 6% more effective, 425% more rapid, 447% more efficient, and significantly less biased than the traditional method. The differential results obtained using disparate decantation methods highlighted the importance of decantation in the flotation procedure and underscored the necessity of specifying the method of decantation used in any research employing chemical flotation. Any future work relying on flotation to analyze seed banks should clearly describe how samples were decanted and should consider the valve method as a potential means of enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of chemical flotation.
23433399|Nearly all of the bentgrass seed grown in the United States is produced in Oregon. However, little is known about the occurrence of weed seed or pathogen propagule contaminants in bentgrass seed lots. This study was conducted to assess the diversity and frequency of occurrence of weed seeds, ergot (Claviceps purpurea), and seed galls (Anguina agrostis) in colonial (Agrostis capillaris L.) and creeping [Agrostis stolonifera L. var. palustris (Huds.) Farw.] bentgrass certified seed lot samples submitted to the Oregon State University Seed Laboratory during 19861995 and 20022010 for purity analysis. For colonial bentgrass, 115 different weed seed contaminants were detected, with 79 identified to species, 35 to genus and 1 to family. For creeping bentgrass, 60 weed seed contaminants were identified to species, 29 to genus, and 3 to family. The percentage of seed lots per year with no weed contaminants ranged from 13% to 50% and 47% to 84% for colonial bentgrass and creeping bentgrass lots, respectively, depending on year. The number of new weed seed contaminants in colonial and creeping bentgrass increased at a rate of 2.7 and 1.9 per year, respectively. During 20022010, the percentage of seed lots with ergot per year was 4477% for colonial bentgrass and 1630% for creeping bentgrass. Seed galls were found in 215% of colonial bentgrass seed lots, but were not detected in creeping bentgrass. This study revealed a wide and increasing diversity of weed seed contaminants in colonial and creeping bentgrass, and provided evidence of increasing ergot severity in colonial bentgrass.
23433406|This article is a translation of Lakon's paper published in 1942, which is still cited but inaccessible to most scientists. Lakon's paper was a significant milestone in the history of botany and provided technical descriptions of experiments which are still relevant today. Live seeds and dead seeds are often indistinguishable using the unaided eye. This paper describes the origin and useful technical details about topological seed testing using the vital stain 2, 3, 5-triphenyl-tetrazolium-chloride (tetrazolium testing), which have previously had very limited circulation. This is because the research was originally published in a minor regional journal which, to complicate matters, suffered from reduced circulation during the 19391945 world conflict. The culture of science also changed after 1945, and while it was common for prewar research to be published in German, modern botanists today prefer to publish technical manuscripts in English.
23433405|The tetrazolium (TZ) test is a quick and potentially precise method for estimating seed viability. However, its efficiency depends on adapting the methodology for each species. The objective of this study was to determine the best seed preparation methodology for TZ testing of sunn hemp (Crotalaria juncea L.) seeds, as well as establish staining patterns for estimating seed viability. Four seed preparation methods were studied for staining: seed coat removal; longitudinal cross-section cut through the embryonic axis without seed coat removal; longitudinal cut in the distal region of the embryo axis, from the thick-end of the seed through the cotyledons; and transversal cut in the distal region of the embryo axis, across the seed width through the cotyledons. Of the preparation methods studied, the most promising was seed coat removal. Staining patterns of seeds prepared in this manner could be easily classified into three classes. Class 1 included viable, vigorous seeds, class 2 included viable, non-vigorous seeds, and class 3 included non-viable seeds. Therefore, the TZ test with seeds prepared by removing the seed coat is a promising alternative for identifying possible causes of seed viability loss in production systems.
23433398|Initial seed moisture content (SMC) and temperature during seed imbibition can interfere with the electrical conductivity (EC) test results. This study aimed to evaluate soaking solution temperature and SMC on results of the EC test of common bean seeds. For this purpose, two experiments were conducted. The first used five seed lots to determine the physiological potential and the initial SMC of seeds. The SMC of the lots was then adjusted to 9, 11, 13, 15 and 17%, and seeds subjected to the EC test. The second experiment used four seed lots to evaluate the effect of water temperatures of 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 C, before and during imbibition, on EC test results. The EC readings in the first experiment decreased as SMC increased from 9 to 17%, but these values tended to stabilize at SMC higher than 11%. In the second experiment, EC values increased with increasing imbibition water temperature, with the highest values and lowest vigor observed when seeds were imbibed at 30 C. Therefore, the EC test for common bean seeds should be done with seeds at moisture contents between 11 and 15% and a temperature of 25 C during seed imbibition.
23433401|Seed quality, prechilling and temperature affect longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill.) seed cumulative germination and germination speed. Seedlots were grouped into germination classes according to seed quality based on their original laboratory germination, then subjected to different soak methods (water and benomyl), prechilling periods (0, 7, 14, 28, 42, 63 d) and germination temperatures (15, 20, 22, 25, 30 C). Seed quality and germination temperature explained 34% and 31% of cumulative germination variation, respectively, while prechilling explained 1.1%. For speed of germination, seed quality was less important (2.1%) than germination temperature (51%) and prechill factors (24%) in explaining variation. At 0, 7 and 14 d of prechilling, the best temperatures were 15 and 20 C. Germination of poor quality seeds did not improve when prechilling exceeded 7 d. When germination class, prechill length and temperature were combined, high quality seeds responded best to prechilling of 14 to 28 d at optimal temperatures (15 to 22 C). Highly vigorous seeds germinated in the first week following 28 d of prechilling, while low and medium vigor seeds required 42 or 63 d of prechilling. Seed vigor was negated with 42 d of prechilling. Germination speed was reduced from 13 d at 15 C to 5 d at 30 C, even though cumulative germination was lower. The best overall combination to maximize germination rate was 28 d of prechill at 22 C to reach 50% germination in 7 d, with a final germination of 74.9%.
23433404|Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) is a commonly used turfgrass in the temperate climates of the United States. The grass is predominantly established from sod because of its slow germination (21 d). Ultraviolet (UV) light has been noted to enhance germination speed of other crops and it may similarly enhance Kentucky bluegrass germination. Turfgrass seeds from two seed lots were placed in two separate germination chambers and set on an 8 h light/16 h dark schedule. One chamber received only visible light while the other received a supplemental UV light treatment (11.2 kJ m-2 d-1). The treatments were applied for 21 d. Seed germination was counted at 7, 14 and 21 d. Ultraviolet light increased germination capacity and speed in the newer but not older seed lot. Seed germination was greater (p  0.05) at day 7, and after 21 d germination was higher in UV light conditions than in control. These results suggest that treatment of bluegrass seed with UV light may enhance germination, although seed age may override the effect.
23433395|Lindera melissifolia (Walter) Blume, or pondberry, is federally listed as an endangered shrub and grows in warm, humid lowland forests of seven states in the southeastern United States. The dioecious plants usually form clonal colonies as a result of rhizome sprouting. Although L. melissifolia can annually produce many bright red spicy scented drupes, information on reproduction of the species is limited to its clonal regenerative capabilities. We examined the survival of L. melissifolia seeds held within bags for up to 1 y in a soil seed bank. Half of the bags were buried and the other half left on the soil surface. Additionally, bags contained seeds either with the oily fruit pulp removed or with drupes left intact. Results indicated that the presence or absence of the pulp does not significantly affect seed survival. However, the viability of buried seeds was greater than 50% by the end of 1 y, whereas over 70% of the seeds left on the surface were rotten or missing. Buried seeds were seven times more likely to produce seedlings in the field than those left on the soil surface. Because L. melissifolia seedlings are not often observed in naturally occurring populations despite the production of viable seeds, it is likely that environmental conditions or other biotic factors limit the field distribution and sustainability of seedlings.
23433402|Hybridity of a seed lot can be improved by precision seed sorting when seed sizes of the inbred lines vary significantly. In this study, eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) hybrid seed from a leading hybrid (No. 1461734) were used. Seed sizes of the male parent and the hybrid lots were comparatively bigger than the female parent. The hybrid seed lot was subjected to a plant grow-out (PGO) test which showed that the hybrid seed lot was of low genetic purity. A physical purity test of the same lot showed that it contained 20% small seeds, which were then removed and effect of removal evaluated. The proportion of small seeds present clearly indicated the admixture of selfs in the hybrid seed lot. With the objective of removing these smaller seeds to improve hybridity of the seed lot, 10 different screen sizes were tried at the bottom of a gravity separator. Seed was sorted using a screen mesh size of 4.0 mm (round) on top, 3.5 mm (round) in the middle, and 10 variable sizes on the bottom. The 0.9 mm (slotted) bottom screen resulted in significantly higher hybridity (95.57%) when re-tested using the PGO test compared to other screen sizes and the control (81.00%). The 2.0 mm (round) mesh bottom screen significantly increased germination (79%) and usable transplants (76%) compared to other screens and the control (61 and 59%, respectively), and is the recommended screen size for sorting this hybrid compared to other bottom screen sizes and the control.
23433396|The use of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) as a forage, conservation, and feedstock species is limited by its slow and erratic germination and inconsistent establishment, further exacerbated by variable soil moisture conditions. An in vitro study was conducted to determine osmotic stress effects on germination properties of four switchgrass cultivars, 'Alamo', 'Cave-in-Rock', 'Kanlow' and 'Shelter'. Seeds were tested for germination in polyethylene glycol (PEG 8000) solutions at water potentials ranging from 0 to -2.0 MPa with 0.2-MPa increments, at 25 C. Six replicates of 100 stratified seeds were germinated and monitored at 6-h intervals from incubation. Maximum seed germination (MSG) and germination rate were estimated by fitting a 3-parameter sigmoidal function to germination time, which provided germination percentage, response shape and germination speed. Decreased osmotic potentials decreased MSG, while the time required for onset of germination increased across all cultivars. A cultivar by osmotic potential interaction for MSG (p < 0.0001) was observed. Cave-in-Rock had the greatest MSG followed by Shelter, up to -0.2 MPa. Responses were further analyzed by ecotype due to similar responses of Alamo and Kanlow (lowland ecotypes) and Cave-in-Rock and Shelter (upland ecotypes). Ecotypes differed in median germination (p < 0.0001) and germination rate (p < 0.0001). Lowland ecotypes required 27% more time (24 h) to achieve 50% of MSG than upland ecotypes. Germination rate decreased with decreasing osmotic potential for both ecotypes. The developed ecotype-specific algorithms can be used in modeling germination under variable moisture conditions among switchgrass cultivars.
23433493|The effect of differential rates of drying on viability was examined in mature seeds of sal (Shorea robusta C.F. Gaertn) during storage at ambient conditions. The initial seed moisture content (fwb) was 42.1% and the percentage of seed germination was determined after drying slowly (air-dried naturally) and rapidly (over silica gel) compared to seeds held in vermiculite. Seeds became non-viable when desiccated to 19.5% and 9.8% moisture content in natural (slow) and silica gel (rapid) drying, respectively. The seeds dried rapidly over silica gel retained higher germination (33%) at lower moisture content (13.3%) compared to the natural drying. Wet storage in vermiculite was not successful and eventually led to loss of seed viability despite higher moisture contents. Storage experiments carried out with undried (42.1%) and rapidly dried (37.5, 34.9, 31.8, 25.4 and 21.0% moisture content) seeds at temperatures of -196, -20, 0, 15 and 25C, showed maximum viability for undried seeds at 15C. The undried and dried seeds could not tolerate freezing, sub-freezing and cryo-temperatures and were killed within one day of storage. Results suggest that rapid drying of recalcitrant S. robusta seeds to lower moisture levels excludes the possibility of desiccation induced damage compared to the naturally dried seeds, though the long-term storage of these rapidly dried seeds at various temperatures was not possible.
23433495|Hydrotime is a way to describe the relationship between water potential () and seed germination rates and percentages. The minimum  that allows germination to be completed is called the base water potential (b). The germination rate (inverse of time to radicle emergence) increases linearly as the seed  increases above b to its maximum rate in water ( = 0 MPa). As b values vary among individual seeds, germination rates also vary, resulting in lack of uniformity that can be quantified by the standard deviation in b values ${\mathrm{\sigma }}_{{\mathrm{\psi }}_{\mathrm{b}}}$. The hydrotime constant (H) indicates the inherent speed of germination in a seed lot. Thus, hydrotime analysis quantifies the speed of germination (H), the stress tolerance of germination (b) and the uniformity of germination for a seed lot ${\mathrm{\sigma }}_{{\mathrm{\psi }}_{\mathrm{b}}}$, which are all useful indicators of seed vigor. Hydrotime analysis of seed lots under diverse conditions allows them to be ranked according to their potential for successful emergence. It is also a valuable tool for developing and assessing seed enhancement treatments such as pelleting and priming. Hydrotime analysis can be simplified into an endpoint test that could be useful for ranking seed lots according to vigor and for diagnosing seed lot potential under stressful conditions.
23433492|Orchard produced seeds of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Sarg.) clones were subject to standard germination (20 clones) and accelerated aging (12 clones) tests. Based on the first test, strong genetic control over the germination attributes (germination capacity, germination value, peak value and germination speed) was found as indicated by the high values for broad-sense heritabilities ranging from 0.88 to 0.92 and from 0.72 to 0.85 for stratified and unstratified seeds, respectively. Seed stratification increased the speed of germination, but had no effect on germination capacity. In the accelerated aging test, seeds were exposed to 37.5C and 100% relative humidity for 0 to 15 days at 3-day intervals and then germinated with or without stratification. Accelerated aging had significant effect on all germination attributes and accounted for between 32.3 to 88.3% of the total variation. The ability to germinate decreased at different rates across the clones as aging progressed. Stratification improved germination capacity of seeds aged for three days compared to unstratified seeds aged for the same period, but showed no benefits with respect to any germination attribute after three days of aging. Germination of stratified seeds was progressively more delayed as the duration of aging increased while germination speed of unstratified seed increased after three and six days of aging and decreased thereafter. Results have implications for the management of western hemlock genetic resources at the level of commercial seedling production and with respect to the use of seed banks for ex situ gene conservation of this species.
23433489|Surveillance, sampling, and testing for federally listed noxious weeds costs the United States Department of Agriculture substantial amounts of money every year. Because some species of noxious weeds look like related crop species, visual identifications of the seeds are not always accurate. Reversed-Phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (RP-HPLC) of cereal grain proteins has received much attention in recent years as a quick and efficient means of seed identification. A study of Avena abyssinica Hochst., Avena barbata Pott ex Link, Avena fatua L., Avena longiglumis Durieu, Avena sterilis L., Avena strigosa Schreb., Avena hybrids, Oryza sativa L., Oryza longistaminata A. Chev. and Roehr, Oryza punctata Kotschy ex Steud., and Oryza rufipogon Griff. was undertaken to determine if RP-HPLC could be adapted to the identification of these species. Prolamin and glutelin protein fractions of single seed extracts were separated using liquid chromatography and the chromatograms of the species were compared. It was demonstrated that all the species studied had distinct peak patterns, which enable them to be identified. Protein analysis of Avena hybrids appears to provide information of the parentage of those seeds. Dichotomous keys were developed to enhance the interpretation of the peak differences in the species chromatograms. RP-HPLC was shown to be a quick, repeatable and reliable method of Avena and Oryza species identification.
23433496|Compared to untreated seeds, primed seeds (depending on the species and treatment) have increased speed and uniformity of emergence, but one clear drawback is that their shelf life is reduced. In recent years, methods were developed to improve longevity after priming, building on experience gained in research on induction of desiccation tolerance of pregerminated seeds. The benefits and limitations of priming and pregermination are discussed. Recently primed and pregerminated seeds have been used as model systems for studies on desiccation tolerance and shelf life and examples of such work are presented.
23433490|Weeping alkaligrass (Puccinellia distans (Jacq.) Parl.) is a small-seeded grass species similar in size to Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) and rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis L.). Two purity methods were compared: 1) the hand separation method (HSM), requiring microscopic examination of each seed unit to insure the presence of at least one caryopsis in each seed unit, and 2) the Uniform Blowing Procedure (UBP) similar to the procedure described in the Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds used for several species of Poa, in which empty and under developed florets are removed mechanically via air stream separation in a General type seed blower. The study was conducted in two phases: Experiment I determined a UBP for weeping alkaligrass that would provide pure seed and pure live seed percentages similar to those obtained with the currently accepted HSM; and Experiment II consisted of a collaborative study among laboratories to validate the UBP as a viable alternative to the HSM for purity testing of weeping alkaligrass. These two experiments demonstrate that use of a mathematical factor of 0.76 in combination with the Kentucky bluegrass blowing point achieves pure seed percentages that are not statistically different from those obtained by the HSM. In addition, the UBP was demonstrated to be a 42% more time efficient method of purity testing among participating laboratories.
23433494|Obtaining uniform stands of vegetable crops in field or greenhouse environments is often challenging. Successful germination and seedling establishment is usually linked to several important factors, including 1) the use of high vigor seed; 2) planting at proper soil depths; 3) sowing into well prepared seedbeds with calibrated seeders and good seed singulation; 4) field selection and planting date decisions; 5) suitable cultivars; and 6) seed treatments. The emphasis of this presentation will be on seed vigor tests for vegetable seeds, yet all the factors listed above are closely tied to the concept of vigor. Definitions of vigor (Hampton and TeKrony, 1995) mainly describe the associated seedling establishment consequences of seed lots that differ in quality. The objectives of this manuscript are to 1) review the benefits of quality vegetable seeds; 2) discuss the connection of seed production and seed enhancement variables to seed vigor; and 3) summarize current and emerging vigor tests used for vegetable crop species.
23433491|Common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) is an important legume crop for feed in the Mediterranean regions where high vigor seed is needed to overcome limited moisture stress at planting time. Early harvesting of common vetch grown for seed may decrease seed losses due to shattering, but may result in reduced seed germination and vigor. Field experiments were conducted to study the effect of maturity stage on seed germination and vigor of common vetch. Pods were harvested at five developmental stages: beginning seed fill (BS), full seed pod (FS), greenish-yellow pod (GY), yellow pod (Y), and brown pod (B). Seeds harvested at different stages were germinated under osmotic stress levels of 0, -0.4, -0.8, -1.2, and -1.6 MPa, and after three accelerated aging (AA) treatments of 39C for 72 h, 39C for 96 h, and 45C for 48 h). Seed germination percentage, germination rate index (GRI), shoot and root lengths, and electrical conductivity of seed leachate (EC) were measured for each of the germination environments. Maximum seed germination, GRI, and shoot and root length under no osmotic stress (0 MPa) were attained when seeds were harvested at or after the GY stage. Delaying seed harvest to the B stage improved seed germination, GRI, shoot and root lengths under osmotic stresses of -0.4 and -0.8 MPa. Maximum germination after AA and the lowest EC values were achieved when seeds were harvested at or after the yellow pod stage. Incubating seeds at 39C for 94 h and at 45C for 48 h under 100% RH were the best AA treatments to discriminate and evaluate seed vigor of common vetch. In conclusion, delaying harvest of common vetch seed until the yellow or brown pod stages may improve seed germination and vigor under a wide range of field conditions.
23433217|The optimum harvest stages for cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. sesquipedalis (L.) Verdc.] are critical to the vegetable market, as well as quality seed production. Pods of 'Lola' cowpea were harvested at two day intervals from 2 to 24 days after anthesis to measure pod and seed characteristics. Fruit and seed maturation occurred in two phases. The pod length and pod weight reached maximum at 12 days after anthesis, which is considered the optimum harvest stage for vegetable use. The maximum germination and vigor index was observed in seeds from pods harvested at 18 days after anthesis, which is considered as physiological maturity and the optimum stage to harvest for use as seed.
23433231|Several environmental conditions, including soil type, soil moisture and planting depth, affect stand establishment of winter canola (Brassica napus L.). The use of polymer coating on other crops has been reported to improve plantability. Therefore, the effects of three polymers (Spectrum Series 100, Spectrum Series 500 and SB 2000) coated on canola seed with three concentrations (0.25, 0.50 and 1.00%) were evaluated in comparison to uncoated seed (control) for standard germination, germination at three moisture stress levels (-0.3, -0.5, -0.7 MPa) and seedling establishment from 0.5 and 1 inch depth in sandy, silt, and clay loam soils. Results showed that all polymers decreased germination significantly and polymer SB 2000 had a greater negative effect than Spectrum Series 100 and 500. Decrease in moisture potential and increase in polymer concentration further decreased germination. Spectrum Series 100 at 0.50% and Spectrum Series 500 at 1.00% concentration increased stand establishment at 0.5 in depth compared to 1 in depth in all three soil types. The results of the study suggest that polymer coating can be used to slow down germination and to estimate actual field stand establishment.
23433213|A method for recovering seeds in soils was developed in collaboration with the United States Department of Transportation. Two approaches were considered: 1) separating seeds via wet-sieving and 2) seedling grow-out tests. Three types of samples were included: field topsoil, commercial topsoil and municipal compost. The wet-sieving procedure used sodium hexametaphosphate to disperse soil samples. Samples were washed through a set of three sieves with decreasing mesh diameters. Seeds collected from each of the sieves were sorted by hand, identified and counted by species. For the seedling grow-out tests, soils collected from sieves and the catchment bucket, as well as unsieved soil samples, were saturated with a solution containing gibberellic acid and potassium nitrate, then kept moistened under green-house conditions for 28 d. Seeds of 23 weed species were found in the commercial topsoils using the wet-sieving technique, seven of which are on the Utah noxious weed list. A higher percentage of the seeds present were retrieved from smaller samples (40 cm3). Seedling grow-out tests were laborious and failed to detect as many seeds and species as the wet-sieving procedure. Results of this study suggest that screening procedures can effectively identify and quantify weed seeds in soils, but confirm that seedling grow-out tests are impractical. As experts in seed identification, seed analysts may be the ideal group to conduct soil tests on weed seeds.
23433218|The effect of seed maturity at harvest and slow and fast drying methods on okra [Abelmoschus esculentus (L). Moench.] germination and seed vigor were studied. Fruits were harvested 25, 30, 35, 40 and 45 days after anthesis (DAA) in 2002 and 2003 and seeds were either threshed immediately after harvest and dried at 20 C for 72 hours (fast drying method) or allowed to remain in the fruits for 10 days at 20  2 C, then threshed and dried (slow drying method). Seed quality at each stage was assessed by speed of radicle protrusion, standard germination, 5-day germination count, accelerated aging test and seedling emergence percentages along with changes in seed color, moisture and weight. Initial seed moisture content varied between 66.0 and 13.6% and 62.7 and 14.8% in harvests of 2002 and 2003, respectively. Maximum seed dry weight (5760 mg/seed) occurred at 30 DAA regardless of the drying method used. Maximum standard germination, 5-day germination count and seedling emergence percentages occurred at 30 DAA and coincided with maximum seed dry weight when seeds were slow dried within the fruit, but occurred 1015 days later (4045 DAA) if they were threshed and dried immediately after harvest. Results showed that threshing okra seeds following slow drying in the fruits increased seed weight in early harvest and improved seed quality at maturity.
23433224|Standard germination is typically the only laboratory bioassay performed on rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed. Currently, no suggested or recommended procedures for conducting rice seed vigor tests are available in the handbooks on vigor testing from the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) or the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA). In April, 2003, a study was conducted on ten lots to examine possible vigor tests for rice seed. The tests that were performed are 1) standard germination, 2) sand germination, 3) cold germination, 4) cool germination, 5) accelerated aging, 6) saturated cold and 7) bulk electrical conductivity. The standard and sand germination methods provided the highest germination percentages, followed by the cold, accelerated aging, saturated cold and cool test methods. The results obtained for both the cool and electrical conductivity tests indicated that the test parameters need adjustment to separate lots with differing vigor levels. The cold and accelerated aging test methods discriminated between samples with lower seed vigor and those with high standard germination percentages. Additional studies should include more seed lots and laboratory results should be compared to actual field emergence to further evaluate the cold and accelerated aging methods for assay of rice seed vigor.
23433221|Mericarps of 'Moss Curled' parsley (Petroselinum crispum Mill. Nym. ex A.W. Hill) were hydroprimed (1 or 3 days in water at 20 C) or osmotically primed in polyethylene glycol (-1.0 MPa for 7 or 21 days at 20 C). Extracted whole embryos then were subjected to a modified chromosome squash technique which sequentially involved fixing, staining, tissue squashing, and chromosomal viewing. The technique quantified relative embryonic mitotic activity. The number of cells per embryo with late anaphase activity was greatest for 3 day hydroprimed mericarps (15), then 7 or 21 day osmotic primed mericarps (3), with 1 day hydroprimed mericarps showing no mitotic activity.
23433230|The feasibility of using simple sequence repeat (SSR) DNA markers as an alternative to isozymes for testing hybrid purity in corn was assessed. SSR markers have the advantage of being abundant and distributed throughout the maize genome; whereas isozymes in corn have limited value for separating offtypes due to their relatively low numbers, poor polymorphism, plus the method has low throughput. Most SSR markers are co-dominant, single copy and polymorphic among corn inbred lines. PCR multiplexing of SSR markers makes it possible to simultaneously use more SSR markers to assess corn hybrid purity. This approach maximizes efficiency by increasing throughput and decreasing costs. SSR markers are amplified from genomic DNA extracted directly from single dry seeds compared with isozymes for electrophoresis that are extracted from 10-day-old seedlings.
23433228|The accelerated aging (AA) test exposes seeds for short periods to two environmental variables, high temperature and high relative humidity, which cause rapid seed deterioration. High vigor seed lots will withstand these stressful conditions, deteriorate at a slower rate and have high germination following aging, compared to low vigor seed lots. This paper reviews the major factors influencing the AA test results and provides a stepwise procedure for conducting the test. The essential equipment needed for the AA test is outlined and the primary questions relating to standardization of this test are answered. The results of the AA test have been shown to provide an accurate estimate of seed vigor in soybean, corn and many other crop species. Several studies have reported that AA results more accurately predict field emergence under stressful soil conditions than do standard germination results. The AA test for soybean is recommended by the Seed Vigor Testing committees of both the Association of Official Seed Analysts and International Seed Testing Association (ISTA). The AA test has met the ISTA requirements for repeatability and standardization and was approved in 2001 for the International Rules for Seed Testing as an accepted vigor test for soybean seed.
23433219|Extraction and amplification of plant DNA is an integral part of using molecular technology for crop improvement such as in molecular marker-assisted selection (MAS). In soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.], leaves are generally the tissue of choice for DNA extraction. A comparison was made between using standard leaf extracted DNA and seed extracted DNA while utilizing a marker-assisted selection protocol to detect resistance to Heterodera glycines Ichinohe, the soybean cyst nematode (SCN) and Phytophthora sojae Kaufm. & Gerd., the cause of Phytophthora root rot. The protocol was unsuccessful using seeds, thus experiments were conducted to determine modifications that would allow seeds as the DNA source. The resulting procedure consisted of extracting DNA from seed radicles and using a disk-based DNA purification system. The DNA was amplified with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using microsatellite primers Satt309 and Sat_168 to detect the rhg 1 SCN resistance gene and Satt 159 and Satt 152 to detect the Rps 1 Phytophthora resistance gene. The resulting product was diluted 1:100 in TE buffer and 1 l aliquot was reamplified and then electrophoresed in an agarose gel. A second protocol was developed by changing PCR conditions of the standard leaf DNA protocol to use undiluted DNA extract. These protocols from DNA extraction to gel completion are easy to conduct and can be completed in about 7 to 9 hours. Both protocols resulted in consistent visualization of microsatellite markers for resistance to both H. glycines and P. sojae and were equal to the results using leaf tissue as the DNA source. Using seeds instead of leaves as the DNA source can simplify MAS protocols.
23433223|Oil palm, Elaeis guineensis Jacq., seed is dormant when harvested and, under natural conditions, germinates sporadically over several years. A method to break dormancy would be beneficial to commercial seed production and the timely supply of planting material. Hence, this investigation evaluated seed germination by using accelerated aging to break dormancy in fresh oil palm seed. Changes in seed moisture content during ambient storage and accelerated aging (AA) were documented. Accelerated aging was performed according to the Seed Vigor Testing Handbook of the Association of Official Seed Analysts. One sub-sample was AA treated without initial water soaking and another was presoaked for five days prior to the AA test. An un-aged control sample was maintained under ambient storage conditions at 35 C in closed polyethylene bags. Seed were tested for germination and moisture content following AA treatment at ten day intervals over 120 days. Moisture content of the control was found to decrease over the 120 day storage period; whereas, aged seeds maintained uniformly high moisture content. Aged oil palm seeds exhibited significantly improved germination capacity compared to un-aged seeds. It was noteworthy that presoaked AA treated seeds recorded 40, 72 and 80% germination after 50, 60 and 70 days; whereas, un-aged seeds had no germination during the same period. Furthermore, the five day presoak followed by aging treatment significantly improved germination.
23433211|An image processing computer application to automatically assess the vigor of three-day-old soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] and corn (Zea mays L.) seedlings was developed. The software operates on acquired digital images of soybean and corn seed lots placed on a paper towel. Seedlings were digitally extracted away from the paper towel and converted into various digital representations. These representations were used to analyze the seedlings and segment them into normal and abnormal categories. The normal seedlings were further processed so that a one-pixel-wide summary structure of the shape of the seedling was produced. From the soybean summary structure, the software classified the seedlings into six type categories based on their shape. Each normal seedling was processed to remove the cotyledon portion of the summary structure based on the type category it fell into. The remaining summary structure, with the cotyledon removed, was then used to compute the length of each seedling in pixels. From the corn summary structure, the software first identified seeds based on their yellowish-red color, connected nearby multiple roots to the seed, and separated overlapping roots to the correct seed. Once the seedling structures were correctly identified for soybean and corn, seedling length measurements were determined. From these length measurements, speed of growth and uniformity of growth values were computed. These two values were normalized and combined into a zero to 1,000 vigor index for the soybean or corn seed lot. Combined with the post-processing corrective features, this computer software was able to achieve highly accurate and standardized measurements of each soybean and corn seedling, providing an alternative to the current method of manually measuring seedlings for speed and uniformity of growth when performing a vigor test.
23433225|Production of seed peanuts requires careful management of several factors that may affect quality, for example, adequate water and calcium availability during pod-fill, maturity at harvest, curing and storage at the recommended temperature and seed moisture levels, and shelling and conditioning with minimal mechanical damage. Seed vigor tests may be used to assess storability and suitability for planting. Tests may be categorized as quick tests, which can be performed within 24 hours, and standard germination and stress-type germination tests, which require 7 to 12 days. Calcium assay is included as a quick method to assess quality since it is a critical nutrient for seed peanuts. The tetrazolium and electrical conductivity tests both evaluate aspects of tissue integrity. The standard germination test is indicative of seed vigor with > 85% germination considered strong vigor. The accelerated aging and cold germination tests are two stress-type methods that are good indicators of seed strength. The accelerated aging procedure has been well documented for use on a number of crops and it provides good reliability when procedures are closely adhered to; however, it does not apply well to high volume laboratory testing. The cold germination test is well suited to high volume testing when performed parallel with the standard germination test. Since these various testing methods evaluate different parameters of seed vigor, it is recommended that a combination of calcium assay, standard germination test and stress-type vigor test provides the best management information for seed peanuts.
23433220|Greenhouse and laboratory studies were conducted in 2002 to detect the presence of Phomopsis sp. in weed species that may be associated with reducing soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality. Phomopsis longicolla T. W. Hobbs, the fungal pathogen responsible for soybean seed decay, was recovered from previously unreported asymptomatic weed species. P. longicolla was recovered from eclipta, prickly sida, Illinois bundleflower, Texasweed, prostrate knotweed, pitted morningglory, nodding spurge, and slender aster found in nearby soybean field. The isolates from weed species were used to inoculate greenhouse-grown weeds and soybean. The P. longicolla recovered from eclipta and nodding spurge were the most aggressive and were as pathogenic as the soybean isolate. Sicklepod and palmleaf morningglory were included in the test and were severely infected by the isolates from eclipta, nodding spurge, and soybean. These results indicate the potential existence of pathogen variability within P. longicolla and these weed species may serve as symptomless carriers and source of inoculum which may result in reduced soybean seed quality.
23433216|Elevated antioxidant content of tomato fruits is desirable for human health and nutrition. In seeds, antioxidant capacity may also be a desirable trait for increased seed storability and slower deterioration rates. This study was conducted to test whether tomato fruits from a genotype with elevated levels of natural antioxidants produce seeds with a functionally greater total antioxidant capacity. The tomato genotype 'T4099', which produces elevated levels of lycopene and ascorbic acid, and the recurrent parent 'Flora-Dade' were grown in the field and greenhouse under standard agronomic practices. Fruits and seeds were evaluated for antioxidant capacity and lycopene content. Total antioxidant capacity of the water- and lipid-soluble fractions of seeds were evaluated using the Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and photo-induced chemiluminescence (PCL) methods. The high pigment line 'T4099' resulted in a higher fruit tissue lycopene content and total antioxidant capacity than 'Flora-Dade'. However, both TEAC and PCL methods indicated that seeds of 'T4099' had lower antioxidant capacity and that the difference was greater for water-soluble antioxidants. Based on these results, it is hypothesized that tomato fruits and seeds may compete for antioxidants. Fruits with enhanced lycopene content are desirable for human consumption, yet this may produce seeds with lower antioxidant levels and influence seed dormancy or longevity in storage.
23433212|Seed (F1) of SCRC15 cotton, a commercial hybrid cultivar, was obtained by crossing a conventional line with a Bt transgenic line at five successive periods in 2001. Seeds were separated into four maturity grades using a floatsink procedure and coat colors. Physical properties and seed vigor were tested in each grade. The results revealed that seed density, kernel index and kernel/seed were significantly correlated to maturity grades, and thus could be used as important indicators of seed maturity. As seed became more mature, higher emergence and fewer diseased seedlings occurred at standard germination (30 C) and cool germination (18 C) temperatures. Water uptake speed and conductivity of electrolyte leakage were inversely correlated to seed maturity. Hybrid seed maturity varied with crossing periods. The percentage of immature hybrid seeds from the last crossing period was the highest, suggesting that ending hand crossing earlier than August 23 promotes higher seed quality.
23433222|Genetic identity is important in seed production of such sexually propagated, cross-fertilized, heterozygous crops as coconut palm (Cocos nucifera L.), which are exclusively propagated by seeds. Due to their uniform nature, twins are used in genetic studies, breeding and to determine identity. The objective was to identify uniform phenotypic traits within twins for use in determining genetic identity. Phenotypic correlation was determined among twin pairs for 11 important foliar traits in coconut. Of the traits under study, leaf sheath fiber thickness, petiole length and number of leaflets had high correlation and are either highly heritable or have adaptive significance. These traits have practical applications in seed production and breeding.
23433214|Schinopsis balansae Engl., constitutes the dominant species in the forests that occupy the Northern Santa Fe Province, Argentina. This research assesses the quality of S. balansae seeds harvested in 2000 and 2001. The seeds were evaluated 3, 12, and 18 months after harvest for viability by the tetrazolium and standard germination tests and for vigor by the germination velocity index (GVI). Incidence of pathogens was determined in both fruits (samara) and seeds. After three months of storage at 3 C, 77% of the seeds harvested in 2000 germinated, but only 29% germinated after 18 months. Of the seeds harvested in 2001, only 28% germinated after a 3-month cold storage period, and completely lost their viability after 18 months. Seeds tested 3 months after harvest in 2000 showed the greatest vigor index (GVI). Low quality production in 2001 appeared to be from adverse environmental conditions with poor seed quality and 55% of fruit lacking seeds. The viability and the vigor tests were good indicators of S. balansae seed quality.
23433226|The cool germination test is the most widely used measure of seed vigor in the USA to evaluate cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) planting-seed quality. The purposes of this test are to rank seed lots and to determine if seed lots are suitable for planting in cool soils or less than ideal situations. The cool germination test is conducted on 200 seeds (four replicates  50 seeds each) in rolled towels at an 18 C constant temperature. Rolled towels are placed upright and incubated for seven days. On the seventh day, a single final count is made. Normal seedlings are defined as those having a combined radicle + hypocotyl length of four cm or longer. It is critical that the average temperature is maintained at 18 C with no more than  0.3 C fluctuation for the duration of this test. Seed lots with greater than 60% cool test values are considered good to excellent. A vigor index based on a combination of cool and standard germination test results is a good predictor of field emergence. Freshly harvested cottonseeds can be physiologically dormant or hard-seeded, resulting in low cool test scores from slow seedling growth or restricted imbibition. As a result, caution must be used when interpreting low-test scores in newly harvested seeds. The cool germination test is a reliable predictor for the quality of both weather deteriorated new crop seed and carryover seed.
23433215|Tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) varieties rich in lycopene are desirable for human nutrition because it reduces risk of various cancers. Tomato genes that cause elevated lycopene content such as dark green (dg) are available. However, several genes that result in elevated lycopene also result in negative pleiotropic effects including slow germination and reduced plant height. It is uncertain whether low gibberellin levels, high abscisic acid (ABA) content or high light sensitivity account for the reduced speed of germination of dg tomato genotypes. This study evaluated gibberellin (GA3) and norflurazon (inhibitor of carotenoid and ABA synthesis) effects on the speed of germination of the high pigment tomato line 'T4099' and its recurrent parent 'Flora-Dade'. These tomato genotypes were greenhouse-produced in summer 2001 for fruit and seed production. Seeds from mature red fruits were sown in solutions of GA3 (10-4M), norflurazon 20 mg L-1 and norflurazon plus GA3. Speed of germination was evaluated as time to reach 50% germination (T50) and germination index. Norflurazon alone and GA3 plus norflurazon resulted in higher speed of germination of 'T4099' compared to the control but not at the same level as 'Flora-Dade'. These data suggest that the high lycopene tomato genotype 'T4099' produced greater levels of ABA during imbibition.
23433229|Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Monench] seed is often tested for vigor in addition to the standard germination test. Often the same tests that are used for hybrid maize are used for sorghum. The range in correlation between these tests and field performance is varied and depends upon the stress level present in the field. The causes of the vigor differences in sorghum are similar to those of other crops; however, evaluating vigor in sorghum can be confounded by the presence of a transient dormancy. Further, sorghum has, in general, received less total research than maize. Some data suggests that traditional laboratory seedling vigor tests used for other crops may not apply as well to sorghum. Genetic influence on seedling vigor appears to be a potential area for breeders to screen cultivars as well as for laboratory applications to predict seedling vigor. Factors such as seed size, membrane integrity and response to seed maturation temperature impact the resultant sorghum seed vigor. Since mitochondria are sensitive to stresses in the production environment and receive maternally inherited qualities, this may be an area that could be developed for laboratory evaluation of sorghum seed vigor. High vigor seed possess an abundant supply of intact and protected mitochondria which upon imbibition are able to immediately begin oxidative phosphorylation and generate the energy needed to support growth and development.
23433227|Effective management of cottonseed requires assessment of a number of quality factors to determine storability and suitability for planting. The seedling growth test, free fatty acid test and cutting test, which assay physiological, biochemical and physical parameters of cottonseed quality, respectively, are probably the three most routinely used procedures other than the cotton cool test. The seedling growth test evaluates seedling vigor during the early days of the germination test, hence it can be performed very cost effectively. The free fatty acid test assays cottonseed oil quality and is commonly used on bulk cottonseed. The cutting test evaluates seed maturity in bulk cottonseed as a measure of quality by examining the condition and color of the seed embryo. These procedures are used to determine seed quality following harvest, but they may also be used over time to monitor seed during storage and conditioning, plus prior to marketing and planting.
23433338|Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.), a native prairie grass, is being increasingly used as a biomass energy crop. To determine optimal conditions for germination, the effect of temperature and pH were studied using several switchgrass cultivars. Seeds of eight cultivars were germinated at five temperatures and nine pH levels. The optimal conditions for germination were found to be 25 C with a substrate of pH 6.0. The data indicated that germination occurs relatively well in substrates with pH values ranging from 68 if the temperature is within 2535 C. The interaction between pH and temperature provides strong management implications. For optimum stand establishment in the field, switchgrass should be planted in warm soils with a pH range of 58. These results indicate that switchgrass establishment in soils with pH values outside this range may not be successful.
23433342|Fast and reliable results from seed quality tests are essential for producers. The Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) was developed to improve assessment of seed quality. This study had the objective of identifying the optimum paper towel moisture contents and temperatures for maize and soybean seed germination during a three-day test period. Seeds were planted on paper towels with seven different moisture contents for maize and eight for soybean. Three different temperatures (24, 25 and 26 C) were used for germination of the two crops. Decreased speed of growth and overall vigor indices were observed when the moisture content of the paper towels had less than 96% saturation in maize and 79% saturation in soybean. When the germinator temperature varied 1 C less than 25 C, no difference was detected in the SVIS indices. However, a difference of 1 C more than 25 C caused a significant increase in seedling growth. These results demonstrate the importance of monitoring paper towel moisture contents used for the SVIS test, particularly for maize seeds, and show that moisture and temperature variables must be carefully controlled during standard germination and vigor tests to assure standardization of reported results.
23433340|This study was undertaken to determine whether soaking marigold (Tagetes patula L.) or verbena (Verbena  hybrida Voss.) seeds in various concentrations of paclobutrazol solution reduces the level of seed metabolism and seed viability. Tetrazolium tests demonstrated that verbena seeds soaked in solutions of 50500 mgL-1 paclobutrazol were viable. Verbena or marigold seeds soaked in solutions of 10500 mgL-1 paclobutrazol had lower respiration and heat production rates than controls. These lower respiration rates were not found in washed verbena or marigold seeds suggesting that paclobutrazol had been leached from the seeds. Lowering seedling emergence in verbena with increasing paclobutrazol concentrations and corresponding inhibition of CO2 emission rates indicated that paclobutrazol imposed dormancy in verbena seeds.
23433339|This study developed an extraction protocol for pollen DNA in corn, and screened current and new primers designed to detect the CaMV35S promoter in corn pollen and seed. Bt transgenic and non-transgenic corn hybrids were used to obtain the seed and pollen DNA. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and gel electrophoresis were used to evaluate the efficacy of the pollen DNA extraction protocol, and to test the efficiency of 11 primer pairs in detecting the CaMV35S promoter sequence. The DNA extraction method described here was very successful in releasing the DNA from pollen grains, as determined by the intensity of the 18 bands of genomic DNA samples amplified with the HMG-AF1/HMG-AR1 corn-specific primers. The strong intensity of the bands formed by primers P35S1/P35S2, P35SA/P35SB and P35S-aflu/P35S-ar1 showed these primers were the most efficient in amplifying transgenic pollen DNA; whereas, primers P35S1/P35S2 generated the strongest band intensity in seed DNA. The new primers 35S168F/35S317R showed higher sensitivity in detecting the CaMV35S promoter than any other primer included in this experiment. The proposed pollen DNA extraction method and the primer 35S168F/35S317R were very effective in extracting DNA from pollen samples and identifying the CaMV535S promoter sequence in transgenic varieties.
23433336|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] plants were grown in controlled environments to evaluate the effect of high temperature (38, 33 C) stress on standard germination (SG) and vigor [accelerated-aging germination (AA) and electrical conductivity]. Initially, the effect of changing the standard temperature cycle in the phytotron from 10 and 14 hours at the maximum and minimum temperatures to a cycle that mimicked the sinusodial field temperature cycle (maximum temperature did not change) was evaluated. The maximum temperature of 38 C reduced SG and vigor for soybean cultivars 'Hutcheson' and 'McCall', while only vigor was reduced at 33 C, just as in the standard cycle. Secondly, the effect of short exposures to high temperature at various intervals during seed development was evaluated. Plants were moved to the growth chamber at weekly intervals during seed filling and returned to the greenhouse after a 7- or 14-day exposure to 38/27 C. Exposure for 7-day periods during seed development did not affect SG and caused only small reductions in AA. Fourteen-day exposure periods caused larger reductions in SG (maximum reduction of 32 percentage points) and AA (maximum of 62 percentage points) when high temperatures occurred later in seed development, but had no effect early in development. The quality of seeds that matured (pods turned yellow or brown) during the high temperature treatment was the same as seeds that matured after treatment (pods were green at the end of treatment). High temperature represents another stress in addition to disease infection and mechanical damage, which can reduce soybean seed quality during seed production.
23433337|An image processing computer application was developed to collect statistics of physical characteristics from seeds. A machine learning technique ensured that the software was applicable to a wide variety of species so that it could be used in purity analysis tests. The method presented requires an inexpensive scanner and a modern personal computer. The software operates by locating seeds within the digitized image of the purity sample and takes measurements on each seed (width, height, area, perimeter, average color, etc.). These measurements are inputted into a classification routine trained to recognize all potential seeds within the sample. The classification routine determines the closest matching species for each seed in the image and reports the results to the user. Because of the wide variation in seeds encountered in purity tests, the automated system of measurement and classification is highly configurable. The seed identification system is designed to be rapidly adapted to specific seed types and trained without knowledge of artificial intelligence techniques.
23433345|We previously mapped four unlinked restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers associated with soybean cyst nematode (SCN) resistance. The partial coefficient of determinations (R2) of the major quantitative trait locus (QTL) A006 is 91%. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) linked to the major QTL of soybean cyst nematode resistance was detected by comparing sequences amplified from "Hartwig," a broad-based SCN resistant line, and "Williams 82," an SCN susceptible line. The SNP was validated using SCN bioassay data at Purdue University. This SNP is located within the site of Fau I, which makes it possible to distinguish resistant allele T from susceptible allele C by PCR followed by Fau I digestion. The discovery of this SNP and its easy detection are of significant importance to plant breeders and to quality assurance managers.
23433343|The pure seed unit as applied in seed purity analysis is poorly defined and difficult to determine for many native species belonging to the Asteraceae. This paper reviews the history of the pure seed unit for Asteraceae as defined in the Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds from 1955 to the present. In the 1950s, only eight Asteraceae species were listed in the AOSA Rules and these were widely cultivated and highly milled due to their thick, opaque fruit walls. However, there are now at least 90 species of Asteraceae listed in the AOSA Rules and these taxa are not highly cultivated or milled. Furthermore, the pure seed unit definitions have fundamental differences between the AOSA, ISTA and the Canadian purity methods. Recently, Artemisia tridentata has been studied to determine an accurate pure seed unit definition. It is important to promote such work to foster standardization of the pure seed unit as it applies to the large number of species in the Asteraceae.
23433341|Seed storage proteins of thirteen species of the genus Prosopis L. were investigated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The resulting chromatograms demonstrated that the species studied could be separated into three classical taxonomic sections previously established by plant morphology. Individual species showed enough variation to be accurately identified based on their respective chromatograms, except for P. glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa, P. glandulosa var. torreyana (L. D. Benson) M. C. Johnst., and P. velutina Wooton. Peak retention time ratios to a reference peak were used to identify individual peaks. The presence or absence of these peaks allowed for identification of individual species. A synoptic key was devised to help interpret the chromatograms. Protein analysis by RP-HPLC appears to be a quick and easy method for species identification within Prosopis and should be a useful tool to plant biologists and seed analysts as an aid to species identification.
23433346|Experiments were conducted in 19982000 to develop vigor tests for evaluating the performance of Argentine canola, Brassica napus L., under different growing conditions. Seed lots were evaluated annually in 57 seed laboratories using the standard germination test (SGT) and pre-chill test (PCT). Germination was assessed after 7 d in the SGT and after 11 or 12 d in the PCT. The vigor index of seed lots was calculated by multiplying the 1000-seed weight by percent germination/100. Seed lots were evaluated annually at 36 locations. Seeds were planted into warm dry soil in 1998, cool moist soil in 1999 and cool dry soil in 2000. Statistical correlations and linear regression were used to identify seed attributes that provided the best indication of seedling establishment, shoot weight and biomass. In all field trials, germination in the SGT and PCT was strongly correlated with seedling establishment and poorly correlated with shoot weight. Establishment improved as germination increased. Germination in the SGT and PCT provided an equally good indication of establishment in warm soil and cool soil. Thousand-seed weights were poorly correlated with establishment and strongly correlated with shoot weights. With a 1.0 g increase in seed weight, shoot weights increased by 105 mg in warm soil and by 1850 mg in cool soil. Vigor indices of seed lots in the SGT and PCT were highly correlated with biomass in all field trials. With a 1.0 unit increase in the vigor index, biomass increased by 1.41.6 g/m-row in warm soil and by 0.41.1 g/m-row in cool soil. Vigor indices in the PCT provided the best indication of biomass in warm and cool soils.
23433249|Recently some soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] growers in the southern USA have shifted to early maturing cultivars to avoid drought, which often occurs during late summer. Seed quality of cultivars that mature early (August and early September) is often poor. The impermeable seed coat (ISC) trait has provided protection for seed exposed to late season weathering; however, it is not known if it will improve seed quality of early maturing soybean. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of ISC on germination of seed harvested from early maturing lines. ISC and permeable seed coat (PSC) lines derived from the crosses D86-4565 X C1747 and D86-4565 X C1813 were studied. These lines ranged in maturity from late August to early October, when grown at Stoneville, MS in 1993 and 1994. Standard germination tests were used to assess effect. ISC lines were significantly higher in germination in one cross (D86-4565 X C1747) in 1993, but did not differ from PSC lines in either cross in 1994. There was a strong positive correlation (r = 0.630.75) between mean germination and maturity date in 1993 among lines within each seed coat class for both crosses. Maturity in 1994 was not correlated with germination except among PSC lines from the D86-4565 X C1747 population (r = -0.38). Results indicated that ISC was not consistently effective in protecting seed quality in early maturing lines. Several early maturing lines with PSC showed acceptable germination in both years indicating potential for improvement of this trait.
23433254|A laboratory test for determining the presence of the Roundup Ready gene in soybean seeds was developed by the ISU Seed Testing Laboratory and approved by Monsanto. The procedure recommended to evaluate the percent expression of the Roundup Ready gene includes a seed lot of unknown tolerance and two controls, a susceptible soybean seed lot and a known Roundup Ready soybean seed lot. All seed lots are imbibed in a 2% solution of the ROUNDUP ULTRA formulation (41% active ingredient), for a concentration of 0.82% active ingredient, glyphosate, in the solution. Two replications of 100 seeds of each lot are placed overnight in paper towels treated with the ROUNDUP solutions. Imbibed seeds are then germinated following the prescribed procedure for soybeans (AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds) and evaluated after 7 days. A standard germination test is also planted to use as a comparison of the abnormal seedlings. Susceptible seeds present severe toxicity symptoms. Radicles of the affected seedlings are yellow to brown and stunted, with little or no secondary root growth. Seedlings of Roundup Ready soybeans develop normally.
23433248|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] seed deterioration occurs because of several physiological factors. One model suggests that a primary event causing loss of seed quality is DNA degradation. To test this model, changes in DNA integrity occurring during seed aging were evaluated using RAPD (Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA) analyses. Five soybean cultivars (Pennyrile, Corsica, Stafford, Essex and Pharaoh) represented by two seed lots each were evaluated after storage under ambient warehouse (0% germination) and cold room at 10 C and 50% R.H. (68 to 94% germination) conditions for four to five years. The extraction, quantification, amplification of DNA templates, and electrophoresis were conducted using four primers. Evaluations were performed on samples of whole dry seeds and their constituent parts (embryo axes and cotyledons) of each seed lot. The results demonstrated no influence of seed deterioration on RAPD fragment expression under both storage conditions. Similar results were found for different seed tissues that displayed the same banding patterns as the whole seeds for each cultivar. This indicates that the standardization of RAPD protocols for varietal identification testing of soybean seeds is feasible even when extreme differences in seed viability and vigor exist.
23433250|Although soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality deteriorates rapidly, there has been interest in storing seed beyond the first planting season. The effect of reducing summer warehouse storage temperatures on seed germination, vigor and field emergence during two carryover years of storage was evaluated. Seed lots with acceptable standard germination (> 80%), but variable levels of vigor, mechanical injury and seed infection by Phomopsis longicolla Hobbs were placed in uncontrolled warehouse storage at two locations (Kentucky and Indiana). Seed was sampled at three-month intervals for over two years and tested for germination and vigor (accelerated aging AA). Seventeen seed lots were moved from the warehouses to constant temperatures [13 (IN) or 16 (KY) C] as summer temperatures increased above these levels and returned to the warehouse when temperatures declined below the same level. Seed lots infected with P. longicolla increased in seed germination and vigor as fungal viability declined during the first six months of storage in all storage environments. All seed lots stored continuously in the warehouse maintained > 80% germination through 450 days of storage (one year carryover), but few had acceptable (> 80% AA) seed vigor. Reducing summer temperatures increased the seed vigor (2 to 54 percentage points) and field emergence (0 to 33 percentage points) of many seed lots. Most seed lots with > 80% AA germination initially (April, first year of storage) maintained adequate seed vigor (> 80% AA) and field emergence after one year of carryover storage. High initial levels of mechanical injury or seed infection by P. longicolla had little effect on rate of deterioration and storability compared to sound seed lots in all storage environments. Reducing summer temperatures may provide a practical, economic option for carryover soybean seed in warehouse storage.
23433252|Field emergence and several seed vigor tests were used to evaluate the quality of different canola seed lots. Four seed lots representing two winter and two spring cultivars were aged at 42 C at various time intervals to provide six sub-lots with a range of seed vigor. The six sub-lots were evaluated for seed quality using the following tests: cold, cold soil, conductivity, first count germination, standard germination and field emergence. Aging seeds for 48 h at 42 C followed by germination for 7 d at 22 C was the best method for the accelerated aging test. Soaking 200 uninjured, untreated seeds for 16 h at 22 C in 50 ml of distilled water was suitable for the conductivity test. The cold soil test was most successful in separating seed lots of different quality when seeds were planted on moist blotter paper, covered with soil and pre-treated for 5 d at 5 C before germinating at 22 C for 5 d. Incubation for 5 d at 5 C without soil provided the best pre-germination treatment for the cold test. Temperatures of 22, 25 or 20/30 C (alternating) in the standard germination test did not significantly differ in influencing germination results. Significant correlations were found between the results of all vigor tests and field emergence for all seed lots.
23433247|The purpose of this work was to test the accuracy of the oven method, capacitance meter and water activity measurements to assess the water status of intact pelleted and film-coated seeds in comparison with noncoated seeds. Seeds from one lettuce (Lactuca sativa) lot and one onion (Allium cepa) lot were pelleted by six commercial sources. A second lot of onion and one lot of cucumber (Cucumis sativus) were film coated by one company resulting in three different coating formulations. A noncoated control was used as a comparison for each lot. Neither the oven method nor the capacitance meter were able to accurately determine the actual seed moisture content from intact pelleted seeds. The oven method underestimated the actual seed moisture content from film-coated seeds, while the capacitance readings provided similar or slightly lower values for film coated than for noncoated seeds. Overall, water activity measurements provided accurate determinations of water status from six pellet sources and three film coating formulations for two crops. The seed moisture content could be calculated from the water activity values with equations from the moisture isotherm for each crop. In conclusion, water activity measurements were a versatile method of assessing water status of coated and noncoated seeds on a routine basis.
23433246|Chile seed is known to have poor germination in the field at temperatures near 15C. Use of seed pre-treatments enhances germination, however, it is not known whether a combination of a priming solution plus gibberellin will have a synergistic effect on seed germination of chile. Therefore seeds of 'Tam Veracruz' and 'Early Jalapeo' chile were primed for five days at 23C in solutions of 1) 0.3 M NaCl; 2) 4 g Pro-Gibb T/g seed; 3) 0.3 M NaCl + 4 g Pro-Gibb T/g seed; or 4) 18 mOhm H2O. Germination tests were run in petri dishes and flats of potting media in 23C and 15C incubators. Final germination percentage (FGP) and the germination rate (MDG) were calculated. Over 70% of the seeds primed in H2O or Pro-Gibb T alone germinated during the priming process while seeds treated with NaCl or NaCl + Pro-Gibb T did not germinate. Under these conditions, Pro-Gibb T cannot be used alone as a seed pre-treatment. Both the NaCl treatment and the NaCl + Pro-Gibb T improved the germination rate compared to the control. The combination of priming plus gibberellin had a faster germination rate than when priming was used alone, especially at 15C. Seed priming plus Pro-Gibb T can improve the emergence rate and overall performance of chile seed at less than optimal temperatures.
23433253|Comparisons among the AOSA and ISTA purity testing methods for annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lamarck), perennial ryegrass (L. perenne Lamarck) and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreber), and a new method in which only the large sterile structures are removed were made by the AOSA Purity Subcommittee. Pure seed percentage, time consumption, numbers and types of seed unit attachments and amount of inert material recovered from the attachments were examined. All three methods achieved similar results for the nine seed lots tested. The new method produced nearly identical results to the AOSA method for all three species tested with a considerable time savings.
23433251|Seed dormancy exists in many of the 250 species of Penstemon, including Penstemon penlandii (an endangered species). These studies were conducted to develop a better understanding of dormancy in this species and provide protocols to determine the germination requirements of P. penlandii. P. penlandii seeds were collected at two locations near Kremmling, CO on 3 and 20 Aug. 1993 to obtain seeds of different maturity. Many dormancy breaking procedures were compared including prechilling, hydrogen peroxide, liquid nitrogen, hand clipping, mechanical scarification, acid scarification, gibberellic acid treatments, ultraviolet light exposure, light and dark exposures, and immersion in boiling water. The germination and speed of germination results in individual germinators suggested that 1530C gave the highest percentage germination for P. penlandii after mechanical scarification, however there were no significant differences between 1525C and various other germination temperatures. Scarification rates of 30psi for 10 to 20 sec produced highest rates of germination and emergence in laboratory and greenhouse tests. Laboratory germinations at 1530C of mechanically scarified seeds were highly correlated with seedling emergence in the greenhouse. Submerging seeds in aerated 1mM GA3 for 24h, placing seed on water moistened blotters at 1530C, and hand scarifying ungerminated seeds after 14d followed by an additional week for germination provided results which were similar to hand scarification, mechanical scarification, and tetrazolium viability. This germination procedure has been adopted by the Association of Official Seed Analysts for inclusion in the "Rules for Testing Seed".
23433255|The saturated salt accelerated aging (SSAA) test is a modification of the accelerated aging test protocol where salts are substituted for water to control the relative humidity of the aging environment. This process reduces the rate of water absorption into small-seeded crops thereby reducing their speed of deterioration. The purpose of this study was to examine the reproducibility of SSAA results for four pansy (Viola tricolor L.) (raw and primed) and two impatiens (Impatiens walleriana Hooker f.) seed lots using a referee format. Eight laboratories participated in the referee and all seed lots were aged with saturated NaCl at 41C for 72 h for pansy and 48 h for impatiens. Seeds were tested for germination before and following SSAA at 7 and 14 days. Similar standard germination results were obtained for the eight laboratories after 14 days. Seven of the eight laboratories produced similar SSAA results after 14 days for pansy and correctly identified the ranking of seed lot performance for impatiens. Primed pansy seeds were more prone to deterioration in the SSAA test. These findings indicate that standardization of the SSAA test is possible.
23433595|The germination capability of freshly (before drying) harvested seeds of common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) was improved by air-drying when seeds were harvested at or after seed physiological maturity. Low osmotic potential may substitute for air-drying to improve seed germination. Field and laboratory experiments were conducted to study the effect of low osmotic potential or cold treatments prior to ambient-drying on seed dormancy and germination of common vetch seeds harvested at different maturity stages. Pods were harvested at four stages of maturity: 1) full-size (FS) seeds, 2) greenish-yellow (GY) pod, 3) yellow (Y) pod, and 4) brown (B) pod. At each maturity stage, freshly harvested seeds were exposed to three drying treatments for 4 d prior to air-drying at ambient conditions: 1) low osmotic potential (-1.2 MPa; osmotic), 2) air-drying at 5 C (cold), 3) air-drying at ambient conditions (24  2 C; ambient). Seed standard germination was measured on freshly harvested seeds and 4 d after imposing the drying treatments. Osmotic treatment improved seed germination at 4 d compared with the cold and ambient treatments for seeds harvested at the GY, Y, and B stages. Osmotic treatment improved seed germination of air-dried seeds at the Y stage. The germination of the air-dried seeds was higher than those seeds dried for 4 d at ambient or cold temperature, suggesting that air-drying was a prerequisite for improving seed germination. However, the osmotic treatment improved seed germination without the need for air-drying when seeds were harvested at maturity (brown pods), due to the reduction in dormant seeds.
23433594|Seed germination and seedling growth of A. indica were affected by seed size and seeding depth. Large seeds germinated earlier with 95% total germination compared to small seeds with only 57% germination. Also, longer shoot-root lengths were observed in plants from large seeds. In seed orientation uniform germination and seedling growth were recorded. No significant impacts was recorded in different seed orientation on seed germination as well as seedling growth. Seedling morphology did not differ much among treatments. Similarly, seeds sown in the upper soil layer germinated more rapidly and proved better growth compared to sowing at 3 and 5 cm depths. Mean germination time, germination index, shoot and root growth, root collar diameter and number of leaves followed the similar pattern.
23433590|Experiments were conducted to develop vigor tests for evaluating the establishment of open-pollinated Argentine canola, Brassica napus L., in conventional tillage (CT), minimum tillage (MT) and zero tillage (ZT). Sixteen seed lots of an open-pollinated cultivar were produced from swathing experiments in 2000 and 2001. Seed lots were assessed in 2003 in the standard germination test (SGT), accelerated aging test (AAT), controlled deterioration test (CDT), pre-chill test (PCT) and electrical conductivity test (ECT). Green seed content and 1000-seed weight were also determined. Establishment of the seed lots was evaluated at three sites with CT, two sites with MT and one site with ZT. The six sites also differed in soil texture and rainfall. Establishment averaged 7579% in CT, 4256% in MT and 17% in ZT. Establishment was lowest at sites with reduced tillage, heavy-textured clay and below-average rainfall. Thousand-seed weights, along with germination in the SGT, AAT, CDT and PCT were positively correlated with establishment in CT and MT but not in ZT. Depending on the site, establishment improved by 811% with each 1.0 g increase in 1000-seed weight. Germination in the SGT, AAT and CDT provided a better indication of establishment in CT and MT than germination in the PCT. Establishment improved by 1.42.4% with each 1.0% increase in germination in the SGT. Green seed content and conductivity were negatively correlated with establishment at all sites. Establishment declined 23% with each 1% increase in green seed and 10 S cm-1 g-1 increase in conductivity after soaking seeds for 24 h. Conductivity after 4 or 24 h soaking provided the best indication of stand establishment at most field sites. The effects of swathing time on the quality, germination and vigor of canola seed lots are also discussed.
23433592|Seed proteins for five species (Phaseolus vulgaris, P. acutifolius P. grayanus, P. lunatus and P. maculatus) were analyzed electrophoretically to assess genetic diversity between and within these species. A total of 31 subunits were resolved by SDS-PAGE. Each of the analyzed samples had a unique profile, although a few subunits were highly conserved. Analytical results of SDS-PAGE of seed protein demonstrated the plausibility of the SDS-PAGE marker system for organizing genetic diversity in the genus Phaseolus. It revealed the genetic relation between P. lunatus and P. maculatus and confirmed their monophyletic origin. It also showed the broad genetic diversity in P. acutifolius germplasm and suggested a gene flow among the parental entities of its accessions. Jaccard similarity index, cluster analysis and factor analysis revealed that P. grayanus had a high polymorphism with P. lunatus and P. maculatus, and P. acutifolius respectively, suggesting unidirectional introgression among them. The genetic distance between P. vulgaris and other species is discussed.
23433591|The requirements for and results from priming lettuce seed can vary according to age, vigor, and thermosensitivity of the seed. This investigation determined the optimal hydrothermal timing for priming lettuce seeds, independent of cultivar, seed lot, and storage using an inexpensive gel assay for the enzyme endo--mannanase (EBM). Two lettuce cultivars 'Bennett' and 'Connick' and two seed lots of each were used. Seeds were primed in an aerated -1.2 MPa polyethylene glycol 8000 (PEG) solution at 15 C in constant light, and were sampled at 24 h, 48 h, or 72 h. Enzyme activity for each lot at each priming duration was determined by a single-seed gel assay for EBM. At 36 C, germination of primed seeds was over 90%, while non-primed seeds germinated at 40%. EBM activity was non-detectable in dry seeds and in less than 5% of the seeds primed for 24 h. After priming for 48 h or 72 h, 30% or more of the micropylar section of the whole seed exhibited EBM activity, regardless of seed lot or cultivar. Since the percentage of seeds exhibiting EBM in the whole endosperm after 48 h or 72 h of priming were similar but total percent and rate of germination at 36 C were optimal after 48 h of priming, 48 h was considered the optimal hydrothermal priming time. EBM activity was observed in 25% of seeds at 48 h priming duration. Therefore, it was proposed if at least 25% of seeds exhibit EBM activity, optimal hydrothermal time is achieved. The EBM test was estimated to cost $11.56 per 1000 seeds. This price does not include facilities or equipment costs. Determining priming time with the EBM test provides a method to improve optimization of the priming procedure for endospermic seeds such as lettuce.
23433589|Seed moisture content constantly changes in relationship to the temperature and relative humidity of the air surrounding the seed. Because seed moisture content is important in determining seed longevity and many other aspects of seed quality, this report emphasizes the properties of water, the types of water bonding in a seed, and how water is attracted to seed compounds. These relationships are examined with respect to various phases found in equilibrium moisture content curves (isotherms) for seeds. Understanding these factors permits greater insights into seed physiology and performance.
23433593|The fungal endophyte Neotyphodium coenophialum is known to enhance tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses in grasses. However, most endophyte-infected fescue contains toxic ergot alkaloids, which can induce a fescue toxicosis syndrome when consumed by ruminants and horses. Recently, new tall fescue cultivars infected with endophyte strains that do not produce toxic ergot alkaloids have been developed. The objectives of this study were to determine whether a commercially available ELISA kit for detecting ergot alkaloid (ergovaline) in plant tillers would detect alkaloids in tall fescue seeds, to determine whether mechanical scarification or crushing of tall fescue seed would facilitate alkaloid detection by ELISA, and to determine whether ergovaline alkaloid detection by ELISA was consistent with the HPLC method. Cultivars included in the comparison were Jesup MaxQ, a proprietary tall fescue cultivar containing endophytes that do not produce ergovaline, and KY-31, a conventional cultivar containing endophytes that produce ergovaline. Seed lots of Jesup MaxQ and KY-31 had similar endophyte infection rates of 90% and 94%, respectively, as measured by the microscopic method. Percentage seeds with ergovaline in scarified, crushed, and whole seeds were 87.5%, 91%, and 7.5%, respectively, for KY-31, and 0.5%, 0.5%, and 0%, respectively, for Jesup MaxQ, based on ELISA. The ergovaline concentration of Jesup MaxQ was < 10 ppb compared to 5290 ppb in KY-31 as determined by HPLC. The results of this study indicate that the ELISA kit was a viable alternative to HPLC for detecting the presence of ergovaline producing endophytes in tall fescue seeds. Scarifying or gently crushing the seeds were suitable techniques for extracting alkaloids from seeds.
23433038|Post-harvest soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed conditioning operations can inflict mechanical damage to the seed. The objectives of this study were to 1) quantify the amount of mechanical damage at each impact point during seed conditioning and 2) evaluate the effect of the bean ladder in minimizing mechanical damage and improving seed quality during conditioning. Soybean seed from a single seed lot of cultivar H6686 were loaded into two storage bins, one with a ladder and the other without a ladder. Seed were sampled at five stages during receiving and nine stages during cleaning and bagging and evaluated for moisture content, germination, and percentage of cracked seed coats (CSC). The seed in the bin filled with the bean ladder had a significantly lower proportion of CSC and significantly higher germination than seed in the bin without a ladder. Seed sampled from the bin without the ladder had a consistently higher percentage of CSC at most drop heights; however, the difference was significant only at the greatest height, 25.1 m. Seed sampled from the bin with the ladder exhibited significantly higher germination than seed from the bin without the ladder at drop heights of 16.8 m or greater. Seed removed from the bin with a ladder had significantly higher germination at the end of the cleaning and bagging phase than the seed from the bin without a ladder. The bean ladder helped reduce mechanical damage during the receiving phase and maintained a higher level of seed quality at the end of the cleaning and bagging phase compared to the bin without a ladder.
23433039|A simple method for the precise orientation of very small specimens for paraffin sectioning is described. The orientation is accomplished under magnification as the paraffin solidifies along a controlled temperature gradient.
23433037|The grains of Triticum aestivum (L.), c.v. HD-2204, were imbibed in 10-6 or 10-8 M aqueous solutions of IAA; 4-ClIAA; 5-ClIAA; 6-ClIAA; 7-ClIAA; 4,6-Cl2IAA or 4,7-Cl2IAA for 6, 12 or 24 hours and transferred to distilled water for germination up to 96 hours. Monochloroindole-3-acetic acids, irrespective of their concentration and duration of soaking, improved germination (%) and the activity of -amylase, noted at three durations of soaking. Dichloroindole-3-acetic acids were as effective as IAA. Twelve hours soaking in 4-ClIAA proved best but was closely followed by 7-ClIAA.
23433032|Seed identification manuals are used by seed analysts as references to identify seeds. However, the success of this task is limited because such manuals only supply two-dimensional seed photographs and diagrammatic representations. In this study, a new, three-dimensional representation of seeds is described to supplement these traditional photographs and drawings. QuickTime VR is a promising method for viewing three-dimensional objects on a computer screen. Unlike traditional computer media such as static images or movie clips, it permits the user to rotate the object and view it from various angles on the computer screen, giving the viewer the sense of examining a hand-held object. In this study, an interactive computer medium is developed using QuickTime VR technology to allow the user to experience the sensation of examining actual seeds. This approach allows examination of virtual seeds from any angle, permitting more accurate identification by seed analysts and serving as an excellent instructional medium for those who study seeds.
23433036|A common nondestructive method to obtain filled seed is to place them in water and select the seeds that sink. We used two techniques to evaluate this method in determining native juniper seed fill. Seeds were placed in water and separated into groups that sank and floated. The fill status of the two groups was determined by opening and visually inspecting the contents of 1000 seeds from each group and by viewing x-ray films of 1935 seeds that sank. Though more filled seeds sank than floated (2 = 313.72, p<0.05) and the number of filled seeds observed in opened versus x-rayed seeds did not differ (2 = 1.2281, p> 0.05), approximately 30% of seeds that sank were not filled. This error can be attributed to empty seeds that sank having thickened coats. Use of this nondestructive method in conjunction with x-ray eliminated the error and allowed selection of 100% filled seed.
23433034|The seed trade in the United States markets an ever-growing list of native species in response to increased demand from horticultural and revegetation users. Proper germination timing is critical for these wildland-adapted species and is often regulated through various forms of seed dormancy. Significant within-species variability in seed germination behavior is common for broadly adapted species of the Intermountain West (USA). High levels of intra-specific variability in germination behavior make selection of a single, best germination test problematic. Protocols employing multiple tests can be effective in determining both seed viability and dormancy for variable species. The ability to deliver meaningful seed quality information for native species will be enhanced as a multi-method philosophy is further embraced and utilized by seed analysts and their organizations.
23433028|The challenges facing the traditional seed analyst today are highly technical and complex. A better understanding of this profession can be obtained by examining the knowledge and practical skills the analyst must possess. The environment that surrounds the seed analyst, including economics, is an important factor that must be addressed if this profession is to obtain parity with other scientific professions. Examples of the value of the commodity the analysis report represents and the environment surrounding the analyst performing the analyses are reviewed.
23433040|Paraffin sectioning of hard or brittle plant material may often be facilitated by reimbibition of the tissue after embedding in paraffin; however, when sectioning seeds, reimbibition may cause the specimen to break out of the paraffin. If the reimbibition is carried out at a temperature just below the melting point of the paraffin, the tissue will not break loose of the paraffin and good sections may easily be obtained.
23433033|Seeds of finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn. var. KAT/FM-1) and those of Amaranth (Amaranthus hybridus (L.) ssp. cruentus (L.) Thell.) were stored in hermetically sealed, laminated aluminum foil packets, for up to 252 days at different constant conditions, which included combinations of temperatures ranging from 15 C to 40 C and moisture contents ranging from 5.3% to 17.3% (fresh weight basis). Seeds were sampled from storage for viability determination at different intervals depending on the storage regimens. Viability decline during storage was generally rapid at higher temperature and/or moisture content combinations. The effect of storage conditions on viability was quantified using viability equations. For each of the two species, the estimated periods for viability to fall to 50% (p50 value) decreased with an increase in the storage temperature and/or moisture content. Viability constants for each of the two species were obtained and used to predict longevity at various non-extreme hypothetical storage conditions. At comparative storage temperature and moisture content combinations, seeds of the two species differed considerably in longevity. The constants obtained in the present study could be applied in predicting storage life of seeds of the two species, especially under short to medium-term storage conditions.
23433030|Although the accelerated aging (AA) test is recommended to measure soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) seed vigor, a uniform AA procedure has not been developed for testing corn (Zea mays L.) seed. This study evaluated the effect of aging time, temperature and seed treatment on corn seed germination and related AA results to cold test germination and field emergence. Forty grams of fungicide treated and untreated seed from four seed lots across two hybrids were aged at 41 and 45C for 72, 96 and 120 hours. Aging treated seed for up to 120 hours at 41C caused no reduction in germination, however, significant reductions in germination occurred after 96 hours for untreated seeds. Both treated and untreated seed aged at 45C showed significant reductions in germination after 72 hours. Two AA treatments (41C, 96 hours, 45C, 72 hours) which gave the best separation in seed lot vigor were compared to tray cold test germination across many additional seed lots and several hybrids. Both AA procedures were highly correlated with each other, however, the germination levels were lower using the 45C, 72 hour treatment. Neither AA procedure related well to cold test germination for treated seed. Standard germination, AA (45C, 72 h) and cold test germination were related to field emergence in nine experiments across three years. A field emergence index (FEI, mean field emergence/mean standard germination  100) for each planting date showed a range in field conditions from severe stress (FEI = <65) to near ideal (FEI = 97). The prediction accuracy (proportion of seed lots in each experiment that had 70 or 80% field emergence) was high for standard germination only in near ideal field conditions. As stress increased in the seedbed (FEI 75 to 90), at a minimum acceptable vigor level of 80%, both AA and cold test accurately predicted field emergence. Thus, the seed industry may want to consider both tests when screening genotypes for maximum field performance.
23433031|Comparisons among the AOSA purity testing method for hard fescue (Festuca brevipila R. Tracey) and sheep fescue (F. ovina L.), and three other more efficient methods were made by the AOSA Purity Subcommittee. Percent pure seed, number and type of seed unit attachments, quantity of inert matter recovered from attachments, time required for inert recovery, and laboratory performance were examined. Two alternate methods produced nearly identical purity results to the AOSA Method, with reduced analysis time requirements and no significant differences.
23433035|The number of strong seedlings in germination tests of acid delinted cottonseed [Gossypium hirsutum (L.) and Gossypium barbadense (L.)] after three days at 30C were compared to cool germination test results. Three comparisons were conducted, two with G. hirsutum L., (30 and 24 seed lots) and one with G. barbadense L., (seven seed lots). In the thirty seed lot comparison with G. hirsutum L., the 3-day count averaged 78.4% and cool germination test averaged 75.3%. Sixty percent of the 30 seed lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. In the second comparison of twenty four seed lots with G. hirsutum L., the 3-day count averaged 81.5% and cool germination averaged 81.4%. Ninety-one percent of the seed lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. In the seven seed lot comparison with G. barbadense L., the 3-day count averaged 81.0% and the cool germination test averaged 79.5%. Six of the seven lots had 3-day counts that were  7 percentage points of the cool germination test. These data suggest that counting strong normal seedlings after three days at 30C may be an acceptable alternative vigor test for cottonseed where facilities and equipment for a cool gemination test are not available.
23433029|Changes in seed testing laboratories over the last 10 to 20 years require more from traditional seed analysts. New genetically modified seeds are tested using a variety of chemical, morphological, and genetic assays. Seed technology is becoming a profession with a definite career path, educational preparation, and aptitudes for success. In addition to doing routine seed testing, genetic purity analysts are involved in quality assurance of production processes, customer complaints, lab accreditation, and plant breeding programs. Analysts can enhance their profession both personally by continuing education, for example and in societies or associations by standardizing test methods or certification standards. The SCST is forming a new membership category of Registered Genetic Technologists to recognize genetic purity analysts. New tests, industry consolidation, higher customer expectations, and changes in the work environment all challenge the analyst to evolve professionally.
23433049|Breeding and quality assurance programs need accurate and affordable methods to test for the presence of intended and unintended genes in transgenic cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) varieties. The objectives of this paper were to describe in detail the Roundup Ready (RR) Rolled Towel Bioassay procedure for cotton planting seed and demonstrate the reliability of this test in identifying the intended RR trait in cotton seed. Seedlings were evaluated as susceptible if they have a shortened hypocotyl-radicle length with characteristic black lesions on the hypocotyls. Results using the RR Rolled Towel Bioassay were comparable to the RR lateral flow strip tests in 678 compared seed samples. The RR Rolled Towel Bioassay is an accurate and cost effective way to detect the presence of the RR trait in cotton seed.
23433054|A method of predicting the deterioration of corn (Zea mays L.) seed during storage would benefit seed producers and the seed industry. This investigation evaluated the ability of an alternative model and initial seed quality tests to predict changes in germination of inbred corn seed during storage in controlled environments. Eight fungicide treated seed lots with low levels of mechanical injury, high germination and a range in seed vigor were stored in sealed foil packets in six constant temperature and seed moisture environments: 20 C, 14%; 30 C, 12 and 14%; and 40 C, 10, 12 and 14%. Seed was sampled at regular intervals and tested for germination and moisture. Prior to storage the initial quality of each seed lot was determined by standard germination, cold test, accelerated germination and conductivity. In addition, the rate of deterioration and time to 50% loss of germination (P50) were estimated using a rapid aging test (40 C, 15% seed moisture). The model accurately predicted the time to decline to P50 in three storage environments (40 C, 14%; 40 C, 12%; 30 C, 14%), however, as P50 increased in improved storage conditions (40 C, 10%; 30 C, 12% and 20 C, 14%), the predicted P50 was much larger than the observed P50, which limits the usefulness of the alternative model. The P50 from the rapid aging test was significantly correlated with P50 in all storage environments. The accelerated aging test, conducted at 45 C, 72 h, was the only measure of initial seed vigor that was significantly correlated to P50 in most storage environments. Thus, rapid aging and accelerated aging can be used prior to storage to select seed lots with slow or rapid deterioration potential.
23433050|Woolly cupgrass, a weed species new to Canada, was found in Quebec in 2000. This is a potentially serious weed in the corn and soybean belt of southern Ontario and Quebec. Seed analysts are advised to watch for seeds of this species when conducting analyses. A brief history of the weed in North America is presented, along with illustrations and descriptions to aid in identification.
23433053|Electrical impedance spectroscopy techniques were developed for use on single seeds of snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) to assess and predict their germination potential. These seeds were aged in a manner that provided a range of seed qualities for testing. The test protocol established was noninvasive, requires careful moisture content regulation and can be completed in 24 hours. Two distinct dispersions were observed of which a low frequency dispersion correlated best with seed quality, and centered between 9.5 and 13.4 kHz with a real resistive component between 7 and 18 k. The low resistive values corresponded to seeds of low quality compared with seeds having high values. The Voigt impedance model represented the data well enough to provide parameters that could predict germination with an accuracy of 0.93 (ROC). An ROC (receiver operating characteristic) of 0.5 is simply a prediction by chance, while a value of 1.0 would indicate a perfect prediction with no false negatives or false positives.
23433048|This study was conducted to assess the efficacy of different vigor tests to evaluate physiological potential of tomato (Lycopersicon lycopersicum L.) seeds. Five seed lots of cultivars 'Debora Plus' and 'Bruna' were subjected to the standard germination, greenhouse seedling emergence, electrical conductivity, potassium leachate, accelerated aging, saturated salt accelerated aging and controlled deterioration tests. Results indicated that both accelerated aging procedures and controlled deterioration tests were the most efficient for evaluating tomato seed vigor, allowing the identification of different levels of seed quality. The potassium leachate test was a promising option primarily to identify tomato seed lots of lower physiological quality in a considerably reduced evaluation time. The electrical conductivity test was a less sensitive vigor test for tomato seeds since the evaluation of the release of electrolytes from the seeds was a less precise seed quality parameter. These results provide useful information regarding the assessment of tomato seed vigor and the identification of the saturated salt accelerated aging and potassium leachate tests as new alternatives in successful seed quality control programs.
23433052|Gibberellic acid is the natural inducer of the activity of -amylase, however, the presence of kinetin (an inducer of nitrate reductase activity), at an elevated level, was expected to be felt in the process of protein synthesis and the germination. Therefore, the grains of Hordeum vulgare (L) cv. PL-172 were soaked in aqueous solutions (10-6 M) of gibberellic acid and/or kinetin for 6, 12 or 24 hours. The treatment improved percent germination of the grains and the activity of -amylase, irrespective of the hormone and the soaking duration. However, the best response was generated in the grains soaked in gibberellic acid for 12 hours where germination and the level of the enzyme activity increased by 156% and 90% respectively, over the control.
23433046|Seed germination requirements of white horehound (Marrubium vulgare L.) were investigated to improve agronomic knowledge of this species and allow its cultivation as a medicinal plant. Fresh seeds of white horehound were positively photoblastic and capable of germinating throughout the temperature range examined (1040 C), with highest percent germination at 3035 C. In this range of constant temperatures, over half the seeds remained dormant. Dormancy breaking was achieved by incubating seeds at alternating temperatures. With increasing range of temperature fluctuation, seed dormancy decreased to the point of abolishing the light requirement for germination. Far-red light inhibited germination. Germination was inhibited proportionately into depth of burial in peat-perlite. However, incubation of buried seeds in alternating temperatures in dark attenuated this inhibition. In conclusion, our germination tests evidenced that temperature fluctuations of the substrate represent the crucial environmental parameter for the germination and emergence of buried seeds. Consequently, the typical thermal fluctuations of spring appear to be suitable for the agronomic propagation of this species.
23433044|The dependence of seed storage life (longevity) on temperature and moisture content can be quantified and predicted using the seed viability equation. Survival data during storage of seeds of two varieties each of delphinium (Delphinium elatum L.) and salvia (Salvia splendens F.) at two temperatures (20 and 30 C) and five relative humidities (33, 43, 53, 62, and 75%) were used to determine the constants of the seed viability equation. Normal seedling or radicle emergence scoring criteria for germination tests to assess seed viability were also compared. For salvia seeds, both criteria gave closely correlated results, while normal seedling counts were more reliable for delphinium seeds. Our results confirm the applicability of the seed viability equation for quantifying seed storage behavior, and provide values for the constants of the seed viability equation for two ornamental flower species.
23433051|Seed vigor tests must be standardized before they can be accepted by seed testing associations. The primary objective of these two referees was to determine the level of variability that occurs within and among seed laboratories when conducting the accelerated aging (AA) vigor test for soybean seed. The nine AOSA and SCST laboratories that participated in these referees all had previous experience with AA testing and the equipment needed (water jacketed chamber) to conduct the test. All laboratories agreed to conduct both the standard germination (SG) and AA tests on replicated soybean seed samples that were coded for testing so that the identity of the seed lots was unknown in a blind referee. Only seed lots with acceptable standard germination, but a range in seed vigor were selected for the referees. There was greater variability among and within laboratories for AA germination than for standard germination, which was expected because of the lower germination scores and many more abnormal seedlings. The variability for AA was much greater in 1999 than in 2000 because of poor calibration of aging chamber temperature in three laboratories. Uniform AA results were achieved within and among seed laboratories in 2000. The data sets from these two referees were used by the ISTA Statistics committee to establish tolerance levels to be used for the AA test of seed vigor for soybean seed.
23433045|Phenolic acids are natural compounds in several plants, which can influence cell morphology, physiology and metabolism. It has also been observed that these compounds can affect seed germination. This study evaluated the influence of -hydroxybenzoic acid on seed germination and vigor, and quantified the total lipids and total soluble proteins in soybean seedlings. Seeds of the cultivar BR-37 were planted on paper towels at different concentrations (0; 0.1; 1.0; 5.0; 10.0 mM) of -hydroxybenzoic acid and germinated at 25C for 8 days. Evaluations were made for: germination, radicle and hypocotyl length, as well as fresh and dry biomass. The lipid contents of cotyledons and proteins in the three components (radicle, hypocotyl and cotyledons) of seedlings were assessed after 7 days at 25C. The results showed that there were no significant differences in cumulative seed germination (radicle emergence) in the presence of the compound studied. However, the percentage of normal seedlings at the final (8 days) count declined sharply from 70% (control) to 7.1% at 10.0mM -hydroxybenzoic acid. A significant reduction in the length, fresh and dry biomass of radicles was observed as concentration increased. A decrease of lipid content was found in cotyledons, and an increase of protein content was shown at high concentrations of the phenolic compound. The results showed that -hydroxybenzoic acid negatively affects not only seed germination, seedling growth and development, but also the metabolism of lipids and proteins.
23433047|Germination tests for seeds of many species require moist prechill at 25 C to break dormancy. In practice, however, seeds are sometimes prechilled at temperatures as high as 10 C. To document the importance of prechill temperature and duration, seeds of 12 wildflower species native to Utah (Balsamorhiza sagittata, Castilleja applegatei, C. chromosa, C. flava, C. linearifolia, C. rhexifolia, C. scabrida, Cleome serrulata, Pedicularis groenlandica, Penstemon cyananthus, P. eatonii and P. sepalulus) were subjected to a series of laboratory germination treatments with 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks of prechill at 1, 3, 5, and 7 C followed by 4 weeks of incubation at 10/20 C. Viability evaluation for each species was estimated using a tetrazolium test. Seeds of all species were dormant without prechill, and very few of the collections showed a significant response to 4-week prechill. Prechill at 7 C was largely ineffective and only C. linearifolia and C. serrulata responded to prechill at 5 C. Seeds of P. cyananthus and C. flava responded positively to prechill, but 3 C resulted in slightly higher germination than did 1 C. P. eatonii and P. sepalulus required more than 8 weeks of prechill at 1 or 3 C for germination to exceed 35%. For seeds of B. sagittata, C. scabrida and C. chromosa, germination response increased with increasing prechill duration up to 16 weeks. Finally, C. rhexifolia, C. applegatei and P. groenlandica had maximum germination percentages < 40%, regardless of prechill temperature or duration. Discrepancies between maximum germination percentages and total viability indicate that prechill for periods longer than 16 weeks may be necessary for many seeds to germinate. Because such long periods are impractical for seed testing, tetrazolium staining or germination tests that include the use of dormancy-breaking chemicals should be considered.
23433507|There are seven North American and three introduced European Glyceria species growing in western North America, yet distinguishing among the species is morphologically challenging. As contaminants in agronomic grass seed lots, the introduced species G. declinata and G. fluitans are undesirable domestically, while North American species are undesirable in seed grown for international trade. In order to distinguish between the western North American and introduced European Glyceria species we designed PCR, Taqman SNP, and DNA sequencing assays. The PCR assays are co-dominant markers in which a larger sized amplification product is detected in G. declinata, G. fluitans, and G. fluitans-like G. occidentalis than is detected among the other species. The Taqman SNP assay shows VIC hybridization signal for G. declinata and FAM hybridization signal for G. fluitans and G. fluitans-like G. occidentalis. DNA sequencing of the chloroplast trnK region and the nuclear ribosomal ITS-1 region provide several SNPs that identify each of the individual species. However, Glyceria occidentalis samples contain chloroplast and ITS-1 sequences identical to either G. leptostachya or G. fluitans, thus currently cannot be distinguished with DNA markers.
23433503|Desiccation sensitivity is the main characteristic of recalcitrant seeds that poses limitations to practices such as storage and direct seeding. This study investigated the effect of parent tree, seed size, and desiccation time on seed variables, seedling growth, and starch thermal properties for Quercus macrocarpa. We expected to find an effect of parent tree, but not for the seed size due to narrow size ranges available for the study. We hypothesized that desiccation time would negatively affect seed variables and seedling growth, while starch thermal properties would also be altered. Two parent trees with distinctive pericarp characteristics (Type-1 with tougher/darker pericarp than Type-2), and two seed sizes (19.5 and 20.5 mm in diameter) for each parent were selected. Seeds were placed to desiccate in a room at ambient relative humidity, and temperature > 21 C, with seeds being sampled every two days. Parent tree and seed size affected almost all seed variables and the onset of starch gelatinization, with larger values for larger seeds. Parent tree also affected seedling growth, with larger values for the Type-1. Desiccation time negatively affected the majority of the studied variables. Respiration decreased with desiccation time, with greater values for larger seeds. Our results suggest that practices such as direct seeding could be enhanced by proper parent tree and seed size selection, since those variables could delay the deleterious effects of desiccation. Starch thermal properties also proved to be indicators in tracking metabolic alterations during desiccation.
23433504|Egusi melon Colocynthis citrullus L. is an important food crop in Nigeria and other West African countries where it is cultivated for its seed that is rich in oil and protein. This study was carried out to estimate the components of variation in seed moisture, fat, ash, protein, and fiber. Eight inbred lines of egusi melon cultivars (NS-B, NS-W, NS-E, NS-R, Ov-1, Sewere, W.SE and B.SE) were used. Crosses were made with these inbreds and F1s, F2s and BCs were obtained. The result revealed extensive genetic variation in the seed components. Percentages of protein and ash had higher coefficient of variation than the other components measured indicating higher variability. High broad sense heritability was recorded in all seed components implying the potential for improvement through selection. This was confirmed by the high expected genetic advance in selection recorded.
23433505|Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg.) seeds are difficult to germinate in the laboratory and nursery due to multiple dormancies. The response of Rocky Mountain juniper to different seed conditioning and germination treatments were examined. The viability of the original seedlot was increased through seed sizing and weight separation. Following this, 21 germination treatments were tested to determine their effectiveness in promoting germination. Fifteen new germination treatments were evaluated and compared with the six best germination treatments cited in the literature. Seed sizing did not affect seed viability significantly, but weight separation increased viability about 7 to 10% for medium to heavy weight classes. Three germination treatments yielded the highest germination ranging from 45 to 55%. A warm stratification period followed by a cold stratification period produced the best germination; increasing the warm stratification from 8 to 12 and 16 weeks improved germination. The best germination treatment, proposed by Clark Fleege (Manager, USDA Forest Service Bessey Nursery), was a 3 d water soak, followed by 16 weeks warm stratification and then 13 weeks cold stratification. Reducing the warm stratification period by 4 weeks was the second best germination treatment. The third and fourth best germination treatments were Van Haverbeke and Comer's 90 min peroxide soak and a 6 d 10,000 ppm citric acid soak followed by warm and then cold stratification. The study shows that additional seed sizing and weight separation coupled with germination treatments are required to increase germination for Rocky Mountain juniper seeds.
23433506|Seeds of Rosmarinus officinalis L. (rosemary) exhibit slow and irregular germination. Improvement of germination rate and percentage may enable commercial propagation from seed instead of cuttings. To this aim, the effects of constant and alternating temperatures following cold stratification, incubation with GA3 under different temperature regimes, chemical scarification with sulfuric acid, and seed lot on the germination of rosemary seeds were studied. Prolonging the cold stratification period increased germination after 28 d (G28), and decreased days to 50% germination (T50). Temperature following cold stratification interacted with stratification period to increase germination rate. GA3 increased G28, and reduced T50, and the number of days between 10% and 90% germination (T90  T10). Temperature regime influenced all three parameters, but did not interact with GA3. Germination was greatest after 15 min exposure to H2SO4, while T50 decreased from 17.8 d in the untreated control to 11.5 d after 120 min exposure to H2SO4. Extract of rosemary seeds did not inhibit germination and growth of Lepidium sativum L. (garden cress) seedlings, indicating inhibitory chemicals in the rosemary seed coat are not likely to be responsible for germination irregularities in rosemary. Differences in percentage of filled seeds and embryo length may account for differences in germination among seed lots. Our study demonstrates multiple mechanisms are likely responsible for release from physiological dormancy and irregular germination in rosemary seeds.
23433510|Two sweet corn seed lots of each hybrid sh2 ('SWB 551' and 'Obsession') were primed by a non-osmotic method (drum priming) at 25 C for 6 h. During each cycle, 125 g of seeds were exposed to 6.0 mL of distilled water and then rotated in the drum for 1 h to ensure uniform absorption. After hydration, the seeds were incubated at 25 C for 0, 12, 24 and 36 h and dried under ambient conditions (25 C, 50% RH). Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) evaluations were compared with standard germination and seedling emergence tests. The results obtained in this study confirmed that SVIS is a practical, valuable approach to evaluating the efficacy of priming treatments in sweet corn seeds when using a vigor index ratio of 70% growth index and 30% uniformity index for evaluating seed lots considered commercially valuable, but possessing low vigor. Dois lotes de sementes de milho doce de cada hbrido sh2 ('SWB 551' e 'Obsession') foram submetidos ao condicionamento fisiolgico por um mtodo no osmtico (mtodo do tambor) a 25 C por 6 h. Durante cada ciclo, 125 g de sementes foram expostas a 6,0 mL de gua destilada e em seguida o tambor foi rotacionado por 1 h para proporcionar uniformidade de absoro. Aps a hidratao as sementes foram incubadas a 25 C por 0, 12, 24 e 36 h e secadas sob condies ambiente (25 C, 50% UR). Os resultados das avaliaes realizadas pelo Seed Vigor Imaging System (SVIS) foram comparados com os observados nos testes de germinao e de emergncia de plntula. Os resultados obtidos neste estudo confirmaram que o SVIS  um mtodo prtico e valioso para a avaliao da eficcia do condicionamento fisiolgico de sementes de milho doce utilizando-se o ndice de vigor composto por 70% do ndice de crescimento e 30% do ndice de uniformidade em lotes comercialmente aceitos, mas apresentando baixo vigor.
23433508|The general responses to salt stress have been investigated in two lentil cultivars (Lens culinaris Med.) ILL6788 and Nugget, which have been identified as being salt tolerant and susceptible as adult plants, respectively. This research investigated the response of these cultivars to different salinity levels during germination. Germination medium (filter paper) was treated with aqueous solutions of 0, 2, 4 and 6 dSm-1 NaCl and distilled water (control) prior to planting. The highest salt concentrations caused a longer delay in germination and after seven days, germination percentage was 20% and 45% for the tolerant and sensitive lentil seeds respectively in 6 dSm-1 solution. Germination rate was decreased with increasing salt concentration and all treatments of NaCl were inhibitory to root and shoot elongation of seedlings in both cultivars compared to the distilled water controls. The Na+ concentration of two lentil cultivars in shoots and roots increased significantly as salinity concentration increased. Shoots accumulated much more Na+ than roots in both cultivars. Concentration of K+ in roots and shoots was reduced significantly with increasing NaCl concentration. The K+ concentration in roots and shoots increased significantly as incubation temperature increased up to 25 C. It was concluded that the tolerant lentil cultivar, ILL6788, was more sensitive than the susceptible cultivar, Nugget, to salinity over 2 dSm-1 during germination. It is therefore important to consider salinity response at different stages of growth when selecting for crop tolerance. [placeholder for Arabic characters]
23433511|Aerial parts of Clematis ispahanica Bioss., a medicinal plant, are being collected indiscriminately, thus it is an endangered species. Seeds were collected in 2007 and tested for germination and viability. The tetrazolium chloride test showed the seeds to be 93% viable, however the germination was 0% indicating nearly 100% dormancy. The objectives of this study were to investigate several methods for breaking dormancy and improving germination of this species. Fifteen seed treatments [sulfuric acid (98%, 15 and 30 sec), sulfuric acid (75%, 30 sec), GA3 (1500, 2000, 2500 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (250, 500 ppm, 48 h), IBA (500 ppm, 15 sec and 250 ppm, 30 sec), ethanol (96%, 24 h), 2,4-D (250, 500 ppm, 48 h), dry heat (60 C, 12 h) and chilling (5 C, 7 d)] were used. Sulfuric acid (98%, 15 sec), sulfuric acid (98%, 30 sec), GA3 (2500 ppm, 48 h), GA3 (2000 ppm, 48 h), GA3 (1500 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (250 ppm, 48 h), ethephon (500 ppm, 48 h), 2,4-D (500 ppm, 48 h) and chilling (5 C, 7 d) increased germination to 52, 28, 59, 41, 44, 40, 57, 7 and 7%, respectively. Whereas, 2,4-D (250 ppm, 48 h), sulfuric acid (75%, 30 sec), IBA (250 and 500 ppm, 30 and 15 sec), dry heat (60 C, 12 h) and ethanol (96%, 24 h) had no effect on germination. The results revealed that seed of C. ispahanica had nearly 100% dormancy, which may be both exogenous and endogenous. The treatments with the greatest degree of success in breaking dormancy were GA3 (15002500 ppm, 48 h), sulfuric acid (98%, 15 sec) and ethephon (250400 ppm, 48 h). However, the effectiveness of the methods depends on compound, concentration and treatment temperature and duration.
23433509|A simple seed germination protocol for Pleurospermum angelicoides (DC.) Cl., an endemic medicinal plant of west Himalaya has been developed. Among the various treatments (GA3, IAA, KNO3 and Chilling), chilling at 4 C for 7 d was found to be best with respect to percentage germination (55%) and seedling survival (77.8%). The other treatments (GA3, IAA, KNO3) reduced the percentage germination of the seeds as compared to control (40%). Improved percentage germination to chilling treatments corresponds well with natural condition where P. angelicoides seeds are covered with snow during the winter.
23433502|The cold test germination percentage of carryover seed corn lots treated with a seed-applied insecticide (SAI) can be below the seed industry's sale standard. However, the same seed lots have good emergence (80 to 90%) when planted in the field. The objectives of this study were to 1) evaluate the extent of cold test germination differences between carryover seed lots treated with fungicide + SAI or fungicide-only; 2) determine if an alternative preparation can be made to a seed lot prior to the cold test and the saturated cold test; and 3) address the accuracy of the conventional cold versus the saturated cold testing method in predicting field emergence. Nineteen seed lots treated with fungicide-only or fungicide + SAI were tested in the laboratory and the field. The cold test germination percentage of carryover seed lots treated with fungicide + SAI was lower than fungicide-only treated seed. When the treatments were removed with Tween 20, the cold test germination of the fungicide + SAI-treated seed was not significantly different from the fungicide-only treated control. The cold test of fungicide-only treated and fungicide + SAI-treated seed correctly estimated emergence under all field conditions. After the fungicide + SAI seed treatment was removed, the saturated cold test accurately predicted field emergence under "poor" field conditions but underestimated field emergence under "average" or "good" field conditions. Removing the fungicide + SAI treatment before conducting the cold test may help seed companies better predict field emergence of the seed lots.
23433310|High peroxidase activity in the soybean seed coat is controlled by a single dominant allele Ep. This peroxidase isoform represents up to 5% of the soluble protein in the dry seed coat of EpEp genotypes. The promoter and regulatory sequences of the soybean seed coat peroxidase gene could be used to drive expression of proteins of human and industrial importance. Soybean seed coats have unique features that make them ideal sites for this purpose. Several features were noticed in the 1524 bp upstream Ep promoter including four directed repeats, the as1 element of CaMV 35S promoter and a G-box like sequence. Transient assay results indicated that the 1524 bp 5 flanking promoter region was capable of driving GUS expression in the seed coat. Availability of the epep genotype and the nature of peroxidase activity enabled us to use peroxidase itself as a reporter to conduct the 5 sequential promoter deletion analysis. Promoter deletion analysis from -1524 to -467 of the Ep allele did not significantly affect peroxidase activity, and further deletion from -467 to -207 resulted in a sharp decrease in peroxidase activity in the seed coat. Two promoter fragments A4 (-467/-310) and A6 (-207/-1) were identified that interact with seed coat nuclear proteins. No DNA-protein complex was detected when these two fragments were incubated with root and leaf nuclear extracts, indicating that the binding of Ep promoter fragments and seed coat nuclear proteins was tissue specific.
23433312|To improve percent germination in seed lots of Albizia chinensis, seeds collected from 13 different provenances were examined under different temperature regimes (20, 25, 30, and 35 C) in the laboratory. Percent germination was optimal at 25 C. Seed lots were also pretreated with tap water (control), hot water, sulfuric acid (H2SO4), and rumen egesta (fresh sheep fecal matter as an incubation medium). Treatments with hot water, rumen egesta, and tap water considerably enhanced percent germination, irrespective of provenance. Soaking in H2SO4 or boiled water was ineffective in improving percent germination of the seed lots of A. chinensis. Seeds subjected to 25 C and a hot water pretreatment had the highest germination and took the least time for germination as compared to other temperature regimes and pretreatments. Among all the provenances compared, Josiara consistently had the highest germination across all treatments. Altitude (provenance) had an influence on germination, however there was little to no relationship between altitude and germination following laboratory treatments.
23433311|The germination behavior of 11 medicinal plant species under different temperatures was studied. Seeds of all species were exposed to eight constant temperatures ranging from 540 C. A linear model was applied to describe the germination rate-temperature relationship. Tested species showed clear differences in temperature requirements for seed germination. The highest germination percentage was observed within the ranges of 1525 C for Marrubium vulgare L., 1530 C for Origanum majorana L., 1030 C for Hyssopus officinalis L. and Silybum marianum L., 1025 C for Thymus daenensis Celak subsp. daenensis and Ocimum basilicum L. Germination of most species ceased or highly declined at temperatures of 35 C. The highest germination rate was observed within temperature ranges of 1530 C for Nepeta racemosa Lam., Oenothera biennis L. and H. officinalis, 1025 C for O. basilicum and Salvia nemorosa L., 2025 C for O. majorana L. and T. daenensis and 1030 C for S. marianum. The lowest base temperature was observed for Salvia sclarea L., S. nemorosa, H. officinalis and Centaurea benedicta (L.) L. All medicinal species studied in this research had a low, below 5 C, base temperature. Optimum temperature ranged from 1324 C, and the lowest optimum temperature belonged to C. benedicta. These germination requirements are insufficient to make a general conclusion for introducing the species into cultivation, however, these data provide basic temperature requirements for further research.
23433314|The lack of information about predicting seedling emergence of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) in field conditions prompted us to study the relationship between laboratory tests and field emergence. This experiment was conducted at Gorgan University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran. Seeds from five cultivars of safflower ('Abade', 'Hartman', 'Kino76', 'PI19829' and 'Zarghan279') were used in these experiments. Laboratory tests included standard germination (SG), accelerated aging (AA), seedling growth rate (SGR) and electrical conductivity (EC). The results revealed that the AA and EC tests provided better separation of safflower seed vigor levels than SG and SGR. Seed from 'Zarghan279' was the lowest quality with no difference in seed quality among the other cultivars. The fitted regression of the laboratory tests and field emergence trials showed that germination percentage after aging (R2 = 0.92**) and EC (R2 = 0.94**) were better related to field emergence than any of the other tests. Thus, EC and AA tests were the most successful in predicting the emergence potential of the safflower seeds.
23433313|Standard calibration samples are used in the uniform blowing procedure to calibrate General-type seed blowers to even out the physical variation among them and achieve uniformity in separating lightweight inert matter from pure seed. Currently, there is no standardized procedure for production of calibration samples for tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.), one of the main cool season forage crops in the U.S. The objective of this study was to develop a stepwise procedure to prepare standard calibration samples for tall fescue (TF) with proven uniformity, i.e., master calibration samples (MCS). The optimum blowing point (OBP) for tall fescue was identified. It was defined as the point at which almost all lightweight inert matter was removed via blowing (light fraction) and the pure seed remained in the heavy fraction. Various tall fescue samples representing different varieties, production years, and growing conditions were used to produce the light and heavy fractions of nine master calibration samples. Uniformity of the MCS developed in this study was tested. The MCS identified the OBP across several blowers, and, samples with different levels of inert matter were uniformly separated. The prescribed procedures can be used as a guideline to prepare master calibration samples for other species because the principles of preparation are the same.
23433309|Cleome gynandra L. is a traditional semi-domesticated leafy vegetable grown in East Africa. It belongs to the family Cleomaceae. Farmers save seed from each harvest for planting in the next season. C. gynandra seeds fail to germinate when planted immediately after harvest. Studies were conducted to determine appropriate seed treatments to overcome dormancy in freshly harvested C. gynandra seeds. Seeds were subjected to various dormancy breaking treatments including: potassium nitrate (KNO3), leaching, light, gibberellic acid (GA3) and chilling. Additional studies were carried out to determine the degree of dormancy in seeds harvested from pods at different positions on the plant. Among all treatments studied, application of GA3 at a concentration of 500 ppm resulted in the highest final germination. Stratification for two weeks at 5 C and germination in dark also improved germination significantly. While leaching had no significant effect, treatment with KNO3 and light reduced germination. Seeds from lower and middle positioned siliques germinated readily compared to those from upper siliques. We suggest for commercialization of C. gynandra seed that have high potential germination, treating seeds immediately after harvest with GA3 at a concentration of 500 ppm before being packaged and sold to farmers is a possibility that can be explored.
23433308|Influence of environmental factors on germination and emergence of Italian ryegrass [Lolium perenne L. subsp. multiflorum (Lam.) Husn.], including glyphosate-resistant populations, is lacking. Such knowledge would help improve our understanding of the biology and ecology of this problem species, which could in turn, aid in its management. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of temperature, light, pH, salt and osmotic stress, shikimic acid and planting depth on germination of glyphosate-resistant (R) and susceptible (S) Italian ryegrass populations. Overall, germination of both populations of Italian ryegrass was highest at 13 C and decreased when temperature increased to 20 or 27 C under both light and dark conditions. Light stimulated germination (57%) compared to darkness (41%) at 13 C, but light had no effect on germination at 20 and 27 C. The resistant population had higher germination (6987%) compared to the susceptible (3757%) at a pH range of 47. Seed germination decreased as NaCl concentration increased from 20160 mM and osmotic potential increased from o (distilled water) to -0.8 MPa in both populations. Germination of the R and S populations decreased from 76% to 25% and 67% to 12%, respectively, as shikimic acid concentration increased from 016 mM. Seedling emergence was highest from seed placed on the soil surface. Seedling emergence was less than 7% from seed planted at a 0.5 cm depth and no seedlings emerged from seed planted below 2.5 cm for both populations. Both populations germinated under a broad range of environmental conditions used in the study, however, the R population was higher than the S population.
23433622|Twenty one accessions of germplasm of Canavalia (C. ensiformis-12; C. gladiata-9), a wild edible legume collected from Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in South India were analyzed for oil content and fatty acid composition. The oil content in Canavalia ranged between 0.42.3%. The variability for oil content and fatty acid composition is presented in this paper. Seed lipids of all Canavalia accessions contained higher amounts of unsaturated fatty acids (69.181.8%) compared to saturated fatty acids (18.230.9%). Oleic acid was found to be the major component in all the seed lipids. Grid maps were generated using DIVA-GIS for the analysis of diversity based on total unsaturated fatty acids and total saturated fatty acids. IC310951, a C. ensiformis accession collected from Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest omega-3 fatty acid (linolenic acid, 11.4%) which forms an essential fatty acid.
23433620|Thrips that feed within florets on developing embryos in grass seed crops reduce yield and pose a risk of global dispersal as they remain cryptic within the lemma and palea in harvested seeds. In some species, a single thrips develops within one floret, and hence one seed is lost with each thrips-infested floret, irrespective of seed size. The objectives of this study were to determine the grass seed crop host range and percent seed loss due to floret-infesting thrips. The two-year study was conducted in western Oregon, a key grass seed production region in the USA. Three fields were surveyed for each crop, and 3,000 seeds were examined per field by stereo-microscope observation of 100 florets from each of 30 inflorescences in 2005 and 200 florets from 15 inflorescences in 2006. Crops surveyed include bentgrass (Agrostis castellana Boiss. & Reut.), annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb. subsp. arundinacea), Chewing's fescue [Festuca rubra ssp. Fallax (Thuill.) Nyman] and orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.). In both years, 94.4% of all fields surveyed were infested. Adults of one or two thrips species, Chirothrips manicatus Haliday and Limothrips cerealium Haliday, were recorded in florets of all grasses. Average percentage seed loss per crop ranged from 0.03% to 4.42%. In one perennial ryegrass field, however, 11.4% seed loss was recorded. The impact of thrips size and life cycle on crops infested, seed loss and potential risk of global dispersal based on harvest schedules is discussed.
23433621|An investigation on germination of annatto (Bixa orellana L.) was conducted. Water uptake studies showed that seeds were fully imbibed after 24 h. Soaking in water for 24 h enhanced germination (82%) compared to the untreated control (57%). Germination was improved to 93% and was coupled with a significant (p < 0.001) reduction in mean time to germination (MTG, 3.64 d) by soaking seeds in a 50 ppm gibberellic acid (GA3) solution for 24 h. Germination capacity for medium (97%) weight class seeds was higher than light (40%) or heavy seeds (60%). Significant (p < 0.001) germination variability was recorded among eight seed collections. Seeds collected from populations in Kariavattom (82%) and Kulathupuzha (80%) produced significantly higher germination coupled with a low mean time to germination.
23433619|Understanding the relationship between life cycle events of native species and their prevailing environmental conditions provides a framework in which site-specific propagation strategies can be developed. We examined the ecophysiological aspects of seed germination in three Allium species native to the Intermountain West (A. acuminatum, A. brandegei, and A. passeyi) to evaluate ecotypic variation in relation to the altitude of the collection site. Three populations of each species were evaluated along an altitudinal gradient. The study consisted of two laboratory experiments: 1) germination trials assessing the effects of moist chilling temperatures on germination percentage in each species; and, 2) germination trials measuring the response within and among species from contrasting habitats to moist chilling duration. The data demonstrate a strong among-species pattern of increasing dormancy with increasing elevation. Although germination in all three species responded favorably to moist chilling at 3 C, there was significant variation in the chill duration required to break dormancy. The presence of a non-dormant fraction only in the lowest A. acuminatum collection, and all three of the A. passeyi collections also indicates a higher level of selection pressure against this trait in sites with longer and more predictable winters. The observed patterns in seed germination are typical of survival strategies in other spring ephemerals. This current understanding of the influence of habitat on germination traits in these Intermountain Allium species will aid in the development of seed-source specific propagation protocol.
23433618|Most seed technologists and other seed industry professionals have little spare time to devote to professional development. A leave of absence to take college courses is not an option for most technologists or their employers. Yet new developments in seed biology make continuing education more important than ever. To help working seed industry professionals maintain proficiency and develop new skills, several seed technology programs/courses have been created at land-grant universities that are offered on the worldwide web. These web-based distance-learning programs can be completed at home as time permits without on campus residence. Three such programs are the Iowa State University MS and Certificate Programs in Seed Business and Technology (http://www.seedgrad.iastate.edu/sb), the Consortium for International Seed Technology Training (CISTT, http://www.seedconsortium.org/index.html) coordinated by The Ohio State University and partner universities in Brazil and Chile, and the National Seed Science and Technology Certificate program and the Seed Technology Education Certificate program, both offered through Colorado State University (CSU), http://step.colostate.edu. Oregon State University, Virginia Tech, and University of Kentucky also offer web-based distance-learning courses.
23433623|Mantisia spathulata Schult and M. wengeri Fischer are critically endangered and endemic ornamental zingibers restricted to a few pockets of Mizoram, Northeast India. Plants are decreasing at an alarming rate due to natural calamities and few countable representatives of both species exist in their wild habitats. To develop a system for rapid mass recovery and sustainability of the genetic diversity of the few existing plants, seeds of both species were germinated under in vivo and in vitro conditions. In vivo germination of seeds was very low (20% and 24% for M. spathulata and M. wengeri, respectively). However, germination in vitro was significantly enhanced. A maximum of 90.0% and 96.6% germination was recorded for M. spathulata and M. wengeri within 2 wk in MS medium supplemented with 4.3 M and 7.2 M GA3, respectively. Seedlings of both species were transferred to an experimental garden and maintained as a field gene bank that could be utilized for studying genetic variability.
23433624|The standardization of in vitro seed germination of Tartary buckwheat [Fagopyrum tataricum (L) Gaertn.] under ideal conditions has been studied. Seed samples were collected from different locations in Uttarakhand, northern India, covering maximum regions of cultivation for the species. Seeds were inoculated to germinate in glass flasks on agar using MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of two growth regulators, 6-Benzylaminopurine (BAP) and -Naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Cultures were inoculated under illumination (16 h daylight/8 h darkness) and in continuous darkness at 25  2 C. In vitro culture conditions improved the percentage and rate of seed germination. Average maximum germination was 87% in seeds treated with combination of BAP (1 mgL-1) and NAA (0.3 mgL-1) in the light conditions, which was significantly higher than in the dark conditions (78%). In light conditions, germination was 67% and 59% for cultures supplemented with BAP (3 mgL-1) and NAA (0.3 mgL-1), respectively. It has been concluded that light has a direct relationship with seed germination.
23433625|The effect of combinations of temperature and time for the accelerated ageing test (AA) were investigated using five lots of sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) seed. Sesame seed lots, which initially had a standard germination above 96%, were subjected to AA at temperatures of 47 and 49 C for 24, 48, 72, 96 and 120 h. The results showed that 47 C/72 h provided a better separation to evaluate the physiological quality of sesame seed lots than other temperature/time combinations. Thus, it can be concluded that this combination, 47 C/72 h, could be used to evaluate the seed vigor of sesame seeds. However, further work is required to confirm these results and make final recommendations.
23433603|The storage method to preserve seed quality is highly dependent on the recalcitrant, orthodox and intermediate nature of seeds. Storage behavior of Aconitum heterophyllum and Podophyllum hexandrum, two endangered medicinal plants of western Himalaya, is unknown, preventing cryopreservation of these species. To develop seed cryopreservation protocols for these highly valued medicinal species, moisture content and temperature effects on storability were evaluated by seed germination and viability. While seeds did not maintain high germination percentages when stored at 25 C, irrespective of moisture content, seeds of both species desiccated to 5% moisture content could withstand temperatures as low as 20 C. The critical storage temperature and moisture content of these seeds were 4 C and 5%, respectively, based on germination (100 and 75%) recorded after 12 and 24 months. This seed storage behavior characterized the seeds of both species as "orthodox". Following newly established moisture and temperature criteria, 14 accessions of P. hexandrum and two accessions of A. heterophyllum were successfully cryopreserved for future germplasm availability.
23433600|Seed vigor is defined as those "seed properties that determine the potential for rapid, uniform emergence and development of seedlings under a wide range of field conditions." The relationship between seed vigor and soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seedling emergence is well documented, but much less is known about the effect of seed vigor on the uniformity of emergence. Emergence of seedlings from seed lots with standard germination > 80% and seed vigor levels (accelerated-aging germination) from 5 to 94% was determined in greenhouse experiments that included variation in planting depth (2.5 to 6.0 cm), low temperatures, and sterile and pathogen-infected soil. Emergence (growth stage VE) was counted at 4- to 8-h intervals and the Gompertz model was used to describe cumulative emergence vs. time. The uniformity index (UI) (time from 10 to 90% of maximum emergence) varied from 15 to 160 h and increased as the time to 50% emergence (T50) increased. Seed vigor had no effect on UI when the seedlings emerged rapidly, but the UI for high-vigor seed was smaller (emergence was more uniform) than for low vigor seed when T50 was large (less than ideal conditions for emergence). The largest UI (160 h) occurred when low-vigor seed was planted deep in pathogen-infested soil. Seed size (sized vs. unsized or large vs. small) had no effect on UI. Uniformity was related to seed vigor, but only when conditions for emergence were less than ideal.
23433604|The present investigation was carried out to evaluate the carryover effects of foliar applications of nitric oxide (NO) using sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as a donor at 50, 100, 200 and 400 g mL-1 on seed quality in terms of seed germinability characteristics of Brassica napus L. (cv. GSL-1) under simulated drought conditions. Seeds harvested from SNP treated plants showed higher germination percentage, seedling length, seedling dry weight and seedling vigor as compared to controls when germinated at different PEG-induced osmotic potentials (0, 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 MPa). Seed imbibition, electrolyte leakage and relative water content of seedlings were also favorably altered following SNP treatments when seeds were germinated under simulated drought conditions. Thus, seeds from SNP treated plants performed better under all PEG levels indicating the improved quality of seeds in terms of germinability characteristics. Among different SNP foliar treatments, 100 g mL-1 SNP showed better germinability and seedling responses.
23433602|Myrica esculenta is well-known for its edible fruit and other by-products and has emerged as a potential income generating species. The species is generally propagated via seeds but physical dormancy caused by an impermeable seed coat results in unreliable germination. Fruits of M. esculenta were collected from nine sites varying from low, mid and high range of the species' distribution (9002100 masl) and used to study the influence of eight pretreatments on germination. Seeds treated with different concentrations and durations of sulfuric acid (H2SO4) failed to germinate. Seeds treated with hot water gave maximum germination ranging between 33% and 57%. Seeds treated with cold water showed 13% to 26% higher germination compared to the control, whereas germination following hot water treatment was 10% to 26% higher than germination following cold water treatment.
23433601|Salinity stress is a major environmental constraint in arid and semi-arid regions such as Iran. Excessive amounts of salt in soil severely reduce seed germination and seedling growth of crops in agricultural systems. The purpose of this research was to study the effect of temperature, salinity and their interaction on the germination and seedling growth of nine medicinal plant species. Treatments included three temperatures (15, 25 and 35 C) and four NaCl concentrations (0, 5.3, 8.48 and 10.6 g L-1). Results showed that salinity treatments significantly reduced germination percentage, germination rate, seedling growth and seedling vigor in all nine medicinal plant species. Germination percentage and germination rate of all medicinal plant species gradually declined as the concentration of NaCl increased. Ocimum basilicum was the only species among the nine medicinal plants in this study that germinated in salinity concentration of 8.48 g L-1. Germination rate and germination percentage of all species, except O. basilicum were adversely affected by increasing temperature to 35 C. The highest seedling vigor in most species was observed in a temperature range of 15 to 25 C and increasing temperature up to 35 C strongly decreased it. The interaction effect of temperature and NaCl concentration on final germination in all species was significant, indicating that germination response to salinity depended on temperature. The inhibitory effect of high salinity on final germination, germination rate, seedling growth and seedling vigor was greater at 35 C than at 15 C.
23433605|Seed germination of Mimusops elengi L. is hindered by a hard seed coat making natural revegetation through seeds very difficult. This study was conducted to establish a method of seed germination for M. elengi. Treatments included subjecting seeds treated to hot water and sulfuric acid (H2SO4) for 20 and 40 min, withering of viable seeds in cow and buffalo manure for 45 d and in vitro propagation on MS media fortified with plant growth regulators including IBA, 2,4-D, IAA, Kn, BA and GA at concentrations of 0.2 mg L-1. Well-developed seedlings were transferred to sterilized soil-sand mixtures and subsequently transferred to containers with soil and compost fertilizer for further growth. Sulfuric acid and hot water did not promote germination, while withering with manure improved germination. Seed germination was observed in media fortified with IBA, Kn, BA and GA while 2,4-D did not promote germination. In vitro developed seedlings were successfully transplanted to the field with a 100% survival rate. In vitro techniques proved superior to conventional techniques for seed propagation of M. elengi.
23433367|Research was conducted in 2005 and 2006 in eastern North Dakota to determine the value of the accelerated aging test in predicting field performance in hard red spring (Triticum aestivum L.) and durum (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) wheat. Four seed lots from four different cultivars were selected each year with standard germination greater than 76% and a wide range of germination after accelerated aging. Seed lots were planted in field plots and their emergence and agronomic performance measured. In 2005, seed lots within cultivars did not significantly differ in field emergence, yield or any other traits measured at harvest. In 2006, seed-lots did differ in field emergence and yield, but differences could not be explained by the results of the accelerated aging test. In both 2005 and 2006, correlations between the accelerated aging test and field emergence and yield were not significant nor were correlations between the standard germination test and field emergence significant. The data indicate that the accelerated aging test is a poor predictor of field emergence and yield of hard red spring and durum wheat, within the context of the environments where the research was conducted.
23433370|Successful oak regeneration is problematic because of species competition, environmental stresses, and the biological limitations of the recalcitrant oak seeds. This study investigated the effect of seed size and parent tree on 3-month-old seedlings for biomass and morphological variables. Seeds of Quercus macrocarpa and Quercus alba were separated into different sizes. Two Q. macrocarpa parent trees gave five "small" sizes (13 to 18 mm), while three parent trees gave five "large" sizes (18 to 23 mm). Two Q. alba parent trees gave three seed sizes (17 to 19 mm). Both seed size and parent affected seedling growth, with larger seeds performing better. All the biomass variables increased as seed size increased. Regression analysis indicated that root dry weight is a good surrogate for root area. Leaf area and number of first order lateral roots increased, while specific leaf area (SLA) decreased with increase in seed size. This suggests that seed size affects early developmental stages, with larger seeds giving rise to more vigorous seedlings with characteristics, such as thicker leaves (lower SLA), that enhance establishment success. Conclusively, larger seeds of the studied recalcitrant species could promote regeneration success and benefit nursery practices by reducing production cost when regenerating a site by planting seeds as opposed to transplanting seedlings.
23433369|This study presents a complete morphological and agronomic characterization of five local runner bean landrace cultivars, coming from an organic farm in Oteruelo del Valle (Madrid, Spain). The cultivars were evaluated following the descriptions of the Protocol for Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability test of Phaseolus coccineus L. (CPVO-TP/009/1 Final). A distinctness analysis of the local landraces compared to 12 different commercial cultivars inscribed in the European Union Common Catalogue was carried out. The results show a complete varietal description for each variety which allows differentiation the vegetable material selected by local farmers from the rest of the commercial varieties based in morphological and agronomical traits. This work will be the first step to later multiplication and conservation of the local material described, allowing the material used in organic agriculture to be included into breeding programs and possibly registering these local landraces as commercial varieties.
23433368|Four thousand-four-hundred and three seed inventories of Capsicum spp. obtained from the USDA/ARS Capsicum germplasm collection were tested for the presence of Pepper mild mottle virus (PMMoV). Approximately 32% of these inventories tested positive for PMMoV and the virus distribution was nearly uniform across the five cultivated species of this genus. Treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with 10% trisodium phosphate (TSP) for 2.5 h at room temperature reduced germination in 11/50 accessions examined and significantly increased the number of abnormal seedlings. Indicator plant [Chenopodium giganteum D. Don.formerly C. amaranticolor (Coste & A. Reyn.) Coste & Reyn] analysis revealed that treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with 10% TSP for 2.5 h reduced virus infectivity, but did not eliminate it. Treatment with 10% TSP for 24 h eliminated PMMoV from four of six tested accessions. Short-term treatment of PMMoV-infected Capsicum seed with TSP prior to planting is expected to significantly reduce the incidence of the virus, but not eliminate it in all instances.
23433371|Swertia chirayita, a critically endangered and high value Himalayan medicinal herb was investigated to understand response of different populations on initial seed germination, and germination after storage at 4 C for 18 months. Populations differed significantly for seed characteristics, indicating considerable genetic diversity. Of 13 populations tested, eight exhibited 100% germination immediately after collection, which was negatively correlated with altitude of the sites where plants were growing. The results suggested an acceptable range of 16 to 42% seed moisture content, before storage, as suitable criteria for S. chirayita populations in long term gene resource conservation. Seed from 10 plant populations showed a steady decline in germination over the storage period. Varied germination responses offer a possibility of selecting elite populations as a seed resource in S. chirayita. The Mean Germination Time (MGT) significantly declined after six months, but increased after 12 and 18 months of seed storage for the majority of plant populations. The best germination and lowest MGT occurred for seed of S. chirayita that was sown six months after collection, followed by slightly lower levels at 12 months. Several populations tested offer promise for the conservation of this species as potential gene bank in Sikkim Himalaya.
23433366|Aged switchgrass seed lots can display various levels of dormancy. Understanding the causes for this dormancy will provide better insight into seed physiology, and potentially lead to treatments that reduce variability in seed germination assays. The effects of sodium nitroprusside, potassium ferrocyanide and hydrogen peroxide on the germination of eight aged switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) seed lots, seven of which were produced in the same year at a single experiment station, were examined. Seed germination demonstrated a significant seed lots  days and treatments  days effect. However, responses of individual seed lots to specific chemicals varied considerably. Genetically related seed lots did not display similar responses to the treatments, while switchgrass derived from a different germplasm exhibited a more similar response. Coleoptile emergence was significantly improved by chemical treatments and showed a significant seed lots  treatment interaction. Together, these results indicate (1) chemicals releasing reactive nitrogen species or peroxide can overcome residual dormancy and stimulate seed germination and coleoptile emergence in diverse switchgrass seed lots, and (2) multiple mechanisms, to some extent under genetic control, appear to direct switchgrass seed germination.
23433373|When comparing the efficacy of different chemicals on seed dormancy breakage, germination percentage alone is not a good descriptor of the phenomenon because the process can be triggered by high concentrations of a compound while other compound can be highly effective under very low concentrations. Because of that an Efficiency Index (Ief) relating the response (i.e. dormancy breakage) of dormant seeds of Townsville stylo (Stylosanthes humilis HBK) to several selenium (Se) compounds at their optimal concentrations was employed by Pinheiro et al. (2008 b). In this paper, the index is revised to a more coherent one (Efi), that relates the effect of the chemicals on germination in a more straight-forward way. The innate dimension displayed by the new index (amount of the chemical per unit germination percentage) is an expression of the tissue sensitivity to the chemicals.
23433372|Tectona grandis Linn. f. is a commercially important timber yielding tree species of the tropics. Teak wood commands worldwide reputation for its durability, strength, ease of working, moderate weight, beauty and dimensional stability. Hence, the areas under teak plantations are increasing rapidly and there is a greater demand for quality propagules of teak in the country. The information available on fruit germination among seed production areas (SPAs) of teak in India is limited. This study was conducted at the College of Forestry, Sirsi, South India. Fruits were collected from twenty SPAs during 2005 and 2006. The mean germination percentage of teak fruits collected from all SPAs was significantly higher after one year of storage (43.1%) compared to germination of fresh fruits (26.2%). Significant variation was recorded among the twenty SPAs for germination of fresh fruits (10.2 to 39.8%) as well as after one year of fruit storeage (13.8 to 63.8%). Variation was also among regions for germination ranging from 19 (Dandeli) to 32% (Madikeri) for freshly collected fruits and from 29 (Dandeli) to 53% (Yallapur) for one year stored fruits. This study has also shown that germination percentage was highly influenced by fruit traits such as fruit size and seed numbers per fruit and seed emptiness.
23433441|Hypocotyl collar rot in chickpeas (Cicer arietinum L.) may increase the variability in germination results between seed laboratories resulting in tests being out of tolerance. A study was conducted using two seed lots to evaluate the effectiveness of calcium nitrate for control of hypocotyl collar rot. Germination tests were conducted in four seed testing laboratories with and without calcium nitrate pre-treatments. The results indicate that calcium nitrate was effective in the control of hyopcotyl collar rot, which increased germination test results among laboratories.
23433437|Five experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of diurnal temperature variation on seed germination and hard seed content of three alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cultivars. The germination tests were mostly of 7 days duration, after which the seeds were classified as germinated (radicle  2 mm), fresh (swollen and radicle  2 mm), dead, abnormal, or hard. The first hypothesis tested was that germination under diurnal variations will be similar to that measured at constant 20 C. A diurnal temperature variation with a high temperature (i.e. 20/35 C [16-h night/8-h day]), resulted in alfalfa germination similar to that at 20 C. However, when the range in diurnal temperature was large and the temperature was high (i.e. 5/35 C), many seeds imbibed water but failed to germinate (fresh seed). When moved to favourable environmental conditions (i.e. 20 C), the majority of these fresh seeds germinated normally. Thus, the combination of a large range in diurnal temperature and a high temperature inhibited seed germination. The second hypothesis tested was that hard seed content is decreased by diurnal temperature variation compared with that at 20 C. A treatment including both a large range in diurnal temperature and high daytime temperature (i.e. 5/35 C) decreased the hard seed content, however these formerly hard seeds germinated when moved to favourable environmental conditions (20 C). The inhibition of seed germination and the decrease in hard seed content caused by a wide range in variable temperatures, did not depend on genotype or seed lot. However, whether or not the inhibited seeds originated from hard seeds or from rapidly (7 d) germinating seeds did depend on seed lot.
23433443|Tachigaren 70 WP is a fungicide approved in 1995 for use as a seed treatment for pelleted sugarbeet seed that has high germination and strong vigor. At the labeled rate Tachigaren 70 WP will control low levels of Aphanomyces, a fungi that causes seedling damping off, however, phytotoxicity has been reported in laboratory tests. Six pelleted seed lots were treated with Tachigaren and laboratory and field trials were conducted to evaluate the phytotoxic effects of the fungicide on germination and field emergence. Tachigaren treated seed resulted in lower standard germination compared to the control (AOSA blotter test) and a pleated paper germination test for all seed lots. When the test was conducted in a soil/sand mixture, the results for Tachigaren treated seed germination was similar to the control. Tachigaren significantly reduced field emergence in three of the six seed lots, but not to the extent measured bythe standard germination blotter test.
23433449|The historical association of white kernel color in wheat with susceptibility to preharvest sprouting and the comparative mapping information suggesting the possible involvement of maize (Zea mays L.) vivipary 1 were used as the basis for isolation and characterization of the wheat homologue. Consensus primers were designed based on conserved regions of the gene in rice (Oryza sativa L.), maize, and Arabidopsis. These primers were used to amplify a portion of the wheat vivipary 1 gene for sequencing and analysis. A comparison of sequence similarity between maize, rice, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) revealed that exons 1 and 6 are highly diverged among all the species. Sequence divergence for rice/maize/barley comparisons are similar across all exons. Comparisons with wheat indicate a trend for exons 2 and 5 to be slightly less conserved leading to lower sequence similarity overall for wheat. Barley sequences were all closely related to wheat, even for exon 6. If additional mapping data support a recent report that Vp1 is not responsible for red kernel color in wheat, this could facilitate enhancement of grain dormancy in white wheat by allowing manipulation of vivipary 1 without affecting kernel color.
23433438|One of the most important considerations of seed users is field performance of the seed lot, because the grower expects an ideal plant population. Several laboratory and field tests were conducted to determine the relationship between electrical conductivity (EC) and soybean seed quality and seedling emergence in the field and to determine the EC range which predicts establishment. Six cultivars representing 54 seed lots were used in 1993 and five cultivars representing 50 seed lots were used in 1994 with four cultivars in common in both years. The physiological quality of the seed lots was evaluated, and three field emergence (FE) tests were conducted each year. The evaluation of performance of the lots with specific EC values and their field emergence allowed the identification of electrical conductivity values, which may result in field emergence equal to or greater than the expected minimum. Seed lots with EC  90 mhos cm-1 g-1 resulted, in field emergence values that were equal to or greater than 70%, with a high degree of precision. The use of seed lots with EC up to 110 mhos cm-1 g-1, resulted in field emergence values equal to or greater than 60%, also with a high degree of precision. The electrical conductivity test appears to be a useful tool to help soybean growers to establish their seeding rate, based on the expected field environmental conditions.
23433440|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr] seed coats are an abundant and inexpensive source of peroxidase. Peroxidase's main function is to oxidize molecules using hydrogen peroxide and elemental oxygen as a donor. Therefore, soybean peroxidase could be an economical alternative to current chemical oxidation techniques. Peroxidase enzyme activity declines after harvest, therefore reducing the extraction horizon or preventing the loss of enzyme activity during seed storage could generate significant cost savings. The objective of this research was to determine the effect of seed moisture content and temperature during storage on soybean seed coat peroxidase activity. Seed lots of high peroxidase cultivars were conditioned to differing seed moisture levels (9 and 13%) and stored in controlled temperature incubators (10, 20, 30, and 40 C) or in a warehouse. Peroxidase activity was measured using the soybean seed coat peroxidase capture assay. Seed moisture did not affect the loss of peroxidase activity in stored soybean seeds but as storage temperatures increased from 10 to 40 C the loss of peroxidase activity was accelerated.
23433439|This study was conducted to measure variability in results of germination tests, to estimate tolerances needed to cover variation in test results, and to determine the minimum number of seeds required for producing germination results within the limits of established tolerances. Data were collected from conventional germination referee (CGR) tests on corn (Zea mays L.) and soybeans (Glycine max (L.) Merrill), conducted by up to 46 Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST) laboratories in the Midwest and Upper Great Lakes Region in 1994 to 1996. In 1997, a "blind germination referee (BGR) test" was conducted on the same crops by 2325 laboratories in the same region in which the individual replicates of the same seed lots were unknown to the analysts performing the test. A positive "inter-replicate bias" in which a significant correlation existed among the results of replicate tests occurred in the CGR but not in the BGR tests. Tolerance limits calculated for germination above 90% from both CGR and BGR test results were close to International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) Rules, but lower than those in the AOSA Rules. Tolerances calculated for germination levels below 90% from both CGR and BGR test results were generally higher than both the AOSA and ISTA tolerances. The greatest decline of test variability was observed when sample sizes were increased from one 100-seed replicate to two 100-seed replicates.
23433442|This preliminary study was conducted to determine whether the physiological quality of field bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seeds could be rapidly evaluated using the potassium leachate and the conductivity tests. Five seed lots of cultivar IAC-Carioca were tested for germination, accelerated aging (41 C/72 h) and exposed to nine preconditioning periods (from 1 to 24 h) at 25 C before conductivity readings. The potassium leakage was determined after six imbibition periods ranging from 15 to 90 min. Results confirmed previously reported information on the usefulness of the potassium leachate test as differences of physiological quality among seed lots were identified using the combination of 25 pure seeds imbibed in 75 ml distilled water at 30 C for 30 or 45 min. The possibility of shortening the imbibition period (up to 12h) for field bean seeds conductivity test was also determined.
23433018|Flower seed quality has improved markedly in the past 20 years. Standardized germination testing has not developed to more accurately reflect this improved seed quality. Eleven ideas are presented to improve seed testing and the reporting of seed testing results. Imaging technology is the most important of these. A failure to adopt and interpret the results of computer images following a germination test will ultimately lead to the obsolescence of AOSA in flower seed testing because this important work will be fulfilled by commercial companies.
23433017|A seed company's ability to produce high quality vegetable and flower seed depends greatly on how it manipulates common and unusual environmental and cultural situations arising in the production field. Many of these situations can be planned for, limited and controlled; however, problems always occur that are unexpected. Crop location, planting time, pollination, pest control, irrigation, nutrition and harvesting methods for each seed crop must all be considered, reviewed and/or controlled to ensure successful seed production. This review discusses the common cultural and environmental problems vegetable and flower seed companies have in producing high quality seed.
23433020|The successful result of a quality wildflower planting is the establishment of a natural environment of beauty for people to enjoy. Although the term "wildflower" appears simple, it is one of contention in the current wildflower market place. Wildflowers are desired for their less formal presentation and adaptation to a variety of environmental conditions. These same traits create problems with quality assurance of wildflower seed; problems that arise from the basic nature of wildflowers due to their wildness. The wildness of wildflower seed is expressed in a variety of ways that affect stand establishment, seed production, conditioning, laboratory testing and marketing.
23433019|Purity and germination testing provide a baseline value of vegetable and flower seed quality. The history of standardization of seed testing protocols for vegetable and flower seeds utilized by the Association of Official Seed Analysts over the past 100 years is reviewed. The ability to assess and convey levels of seed quality for vegetable and flower seeds is hampered by the lack of appropriate or standardized laboratory testing methods, or both. This discussion provides examples of problems ranging from kind and seed unit identification, classification of contaminants, germination test methods and seedling evaluation. Emphasis is placed on the need to develop and refine laboratory testing procedures and improve seed analyst training with the focus on standardization within and among laboratories.
23433025|Seed dormancy in small-seeded vegetable and flower crops impacts both seed production and germination. Seed dormancy can also complicate assessment of seed quality by the seed analyst who requires prompt germination to evaluate a seed lot. These crops also display diverse mechanisms for seed dormancy. This review surveys and categorizes the different seed dormancy conditions found in this important group of plants. Vegetable and flower genera are listed according to dormancy type. Categories of dormancy include primary and secondary dormancy. Within primary dormancy, examples of vegetable and flower genera can be found that display exogenous, endogenous and combinational dormancy. Secondary dormancy can be an important problem in selected vegetable and flower seeds. Specific examples are given for each type of dormancy along with methods to alleviate dormancy. Tables are included that group vegetable and flower genera according to dormancy type.
23433021|The high sucrose content of shrunken-2 (sh2) or supersweet sweet corn inhibits drying of the seed crop in the field, and necessitates a long (70 day +) period of maturation after pollination before harvest and artificial drying of the seed crop. During this time, the ear is highly susceptible to invasion by insects and rotting by fungi. Stringent insect control is crucial for production of disease-free seed. Certain of the ear-rotting fungi, most notably Penicillium oxalicum, are seed-transmitted, causing disease and mortality in sweet corn seedlings. This necessitates treatment of the seeds with a strong mixture of fungicides, including a broad-spectrum systemic fungicide where possible. During maturation of the seed crop in the field, physiological changes gradually occur in the seed, rendering it capable of high seed vigor after commercial harvest and drying. Seed parents differ dramatically in inherent seed vigor, resistance to stress and pests, and in the length of the maturation period needed to produce seed of the highest possible vigor. Commercial seed lots sometimes exhibit poor seed vigor, in spite of high germination. Vigor tests, such as the accelerated aging test, are useful for predicting the field emergence potential of sh2 seed lots.
23433022|Recognition of the importance of seed-borne diseases in vegetable and flower seeds is often overlooked, particularly in the case of flower seeds. Plant diseases may be found in, on or with seed and seed lots. Seed-borne diseases may be grouped according to their causal agents, fungi, bacteria, viruses nematodes etc.. Development of disease in a crop as a result of seed-borne inoculum is a result of the interactions between the pathogen, its host and the environment. Epidemiology is the study of these interactions. Effective disease management programs and the development of reliable and accurate methods for seed health testing is dependent upon an understanding of plant disease epidemiology.
23433024|Priming is a treatment that partially hydrates seeds so that germination processes begin, but radicle emergence does not occur. Experimentally, priming treatments are limited only to conditions that do not result in premature radicle extension and may include: equilibration under conditions of high humidity, soaking in water or osmotic solution, equilibration with a matric-potential control surface, intermixture with a porous matrix material, and moisture addition to a seed water content less than required for germination. Commercial priming technology has evolved from osmotic priming to solid matrix priming and finally drum priming which is gaining acceptance for large-scale use. The degree of enhancement from priming depends upon the initial quality of the seed, the species being treated, treatment conditions such as temperature, water potential (), duration, and other conditions specific to the priming medium. There is no simple recipe for determining the best priming treatment for a particular species. Priming treatments must be determined empirically. In several species, the optimal  for priming ranges from the least negative  that prevents radicle emergence to approximately -2.5 MPa. Some reported effects of priming include increased germination rate, greater germination uniformity, increased germination percentage, advancement of maturity, wider temperature range for germination, repair of cellular damage, weakening of barriers to embryo growth, reduced seed storage life, increased protein synthesis, and removal of dormancy. However, it is increasingly apparent that the effects of priming differ widely among species. The evolution of priming technology is reviewed as well as our current knowledge of how priming enhances germination performance.
23433023|Beneficial bacteria and fungi provide promising alternatives or supplements to chemicals as seed treatments against soilborne pathogens. This review provides an assessment of biological control agents (BCA's) currently used with vegetable crop species, and key limitations to expanded use of BCA's as seed treatments. Research areas for improved biological efficacy and reliability in field and greenhouse settings are also discussed. The ability of BCA's to effectively colonize and grow with the seedling root system may be particularly useful when crops experience environmental stress. Improved application methods to optimize the density and uniformity of biologicals on seeds are increasing the reliability of BCA technology. Early results also suggest variable levels of BCA compatibility with chemical seed treatments and other microbial applications. Progress in storability, ease of application and economy of BCA production will be needed to move biologicals beyond their niche position in the seed treatment market.
23433419|An efficient method of propagation for Vanda coerulea, a rare and endangered species, was developed via in vitro asymbiotic germination of seeds. Seeds excised from 10 to 11-month old artificially pollinated capsules were cultured aseptically on different media. A maximum seed germination of 71.8% was recorded on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium devoid of plant growth regulators. However, incorporation of either 5 M 6-benzyl aminopurine (BAP) or 5 M indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) separately in the MS medium further enhanced seed germination to 94.4% and 92.6%, respectively. A maximum shoot number of 13.2 with an average of 5.1 roots was obtained on MS medium supplemented with a combination of 5 M BAP and 15 M IAA. Well developed seedlings of V. coerulea were hardened in a potting medium comprised of charcoal, brick pieces and decaying litter in a 1:1:1 ratio, with a top layer of moss, wherein 91.2% survivability was obtained.
23433422|The soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed count test is routinely conducted to achieve desired field planting rates. Over or under-seeding affects seed production systems adversely. This study was conducted to establish meaningful tolerances that can be used for truth-in-labeling purposes. Experiments were conducted to 1) measure seed count variation among and within laboratories, 2) assess the effect of bag to bag variation within a seed lot on seed count tests, 3) measure the impact of seed moisture content on seed counts, 4) compare electronic versus manual seed count methods, and 5) determine the effect of sample size and number of replications on test variability in order to establish appropriate tolerances for seed count tests. Eight soybean seed lots were used by 42 laboratories over a three-year period to test the above variables. Results showed that including outlier test results (extreme values) contributed to variation in seed count tests within and among laboratories. Heterogeneity from bag to bag within a seed lot was significant and should be considered in establishing tolerances. Adjusting moisture content of seeds to a uniform level increased seed count test variation. Electronic and manual seed count methods produced comparable results. Sample size was more important than number of replicates per test. A 3.1% tolerance value was recommended as the largest insignificant difference between two test results. In case of lot heterogeneity, tolerances of 4.5 to 5% should be considered.
23433420|Seeds and seedlings of Pinus radiata may be seriously damaged by the canker fungi Diplodia pinea and Fusarium circinatum. This study evaluated alternative seed disinfection treatments against these canker fungi. Experiments were conducted to determine both inhibitory and fungicide effects on colony growth of D. pinea and F. circinatum. Treatments included 24 chemicals at four doses of 1, 10, 100 and 1000 g mL-1, eight essential oils at five dilutions of 10, 25, 50, 75 and 100% v/v, two antagonistic organisms, Trichoderma harzianum and Trichoderma harzianum, from Basque Country plantations, and four thermotherapy treatments of 55C for 8, 9, 10 and 11 hours in vitro. Fungicide and fungistatic effects on inhibition of fungal colony growth were evaluated and phytotoxicity of treatments on P. radiata seeds analyzed. Fusarium circinatum and D. pinea responded in similar ways to the tested treatments, although D. pinea was often inhibited at lower doses of chemical fungicides and higher doses of essential oils. Thermotherapy and Trichoderma treatments showed greater effectiveness against the D. pinea strain than the F. circinatum strain. Germination of P. radiata seeds was highly affected by essential oils application, causing a strong inhibitory effect ( 92.25% germination inhibition) with most of the tested oils. Semillas y plantas de Pinus radiata pueden ser daadas por Fusarium circinatum y Diplodia pinea. El principal objetivo de este estudio fue evaluar tratamientos de control alternativos frente a los hongos D. pinea y F. circinatum para su aplicacin en la desinfeccin de semilla. Se llevan a cabo experimentos para determinar ambos efectos, inhibidor y fungicida, en el crecimiento de las colonias de los hongos patgenos. Los compuestos qumicos y organismos utilizados incluyen : 24 compuestos qumicos (se testan 4 dosis 1, 10, 100 y 1000 g por ml), 8 aceites esenciales (cinco diluciones: 10, 25, 50, 75 y 100% v/v), dos colonias de organismos antagonistas (dos tratamientos de Trichoderma harzianum comercial y Trichoderma harzianum procedentes de plantaciones del Pas Vasco) y cuatro tratamientos de termoterapia (testados en un incubador a 55C durante 8, 9, 10 y 11 horas) in vitro. Se evala el efecto fungicida y fungiesttico en la inhibicin del crecimiento de las colonias de hongo y se analiza la fitotoxicidad de los tratamientos en semillas de P. radiata. F. circinatum y D. pinea respondieron de forma similar a los tratamientos testados aunque D. pinea fue, a menudo, inhibida a dosis ms bajas de fungicidas qumicos y ms altas de aceites esenciales que F. circinatum. Los tratamientos de termoterapia y con Trichoderma mostraron mayor eficacia frente a la cepa de D. pinea que frente a la de F. circinatum. La germinacin de las semillas de P. radiata fue altamente afectada por la aplicacin de aceites esenciales, causando un efecto inhibidor fuerte en la mayor parte de los aceites testados ( 92,25%, porcentaje de inhibicin de la germinacin).
23433423|Fluctuating and extreme changes in temperature during seed germination may disrupt several physiological processes. Developing easy and reliable screening techniques to identify cultivar tolerance to extreme temperatures would benefit crop breeding programs in selecting cultivars for niche environments. An experiment was conducted to study the influence of temperature on 12 ornamental pepper cultivars using in vitro seed germination parameters. Time-series seed germination responses at a range of temperatures from 10 to 45C with 5C increments were carried out and number of germinated seed recorded every six hours. Seed germination rate (SGR) and maximum seed germination (MSG) were derived from temperature and germination timecourse data by fitting a three-parameter sigmoidal function. Quadratic and bilinear functions best described SGR- and MSG-temperature response functions, respectively. Cumulative temperature response indices (CTRI) of each cultivar, calculated as the sum of eight individual temperature response indices derived from temperature adaptability range (TAR = Tmax to Tmin), Tmin, Topt, and Tmax, for SGR and MSG, were used to classify cultivars for temperature tolerance. Cultivars were classified based on CTRI(heat) as heat tolerant ('Medusa' and 'Treasures Red'), heat intermediate ('Thai Hot', 'Variegata', and 'Red Missile'), and heat sensitive ('Purple Flash', 'Salsa Yellow', 'Black Pearl', 'Chilly Chili', 'Explosive Ember', 'Calico', and 'Sangria'). Similarly, cultivars were classified for cold tolerance as cold sensitive, moderately cold sensitive, moderately cold tolerant and cold tolerant based on CTRI(cold). Screening based on seed germination parameters is a simple and inexpensive method for determining vegetative temperature tolerance in pepper breeding programs.
23433424|Jute mallow (Corchorus olitorius L.) is an important African leafy vegetable in Kenya. It is highly nutritious and has commercial importance. Jute mallow seeds exhibit dormancy, reducing seed germination and adversely affecting field performance, but limited research has been done on appropriate dormancy breaking methods. In this study, efficacy of various dormancy breaking methods was tested. Treatments included mechanical scarification, soaking in boiling water for 5 min, leaching, soaking in water for 24 h at room temperature, applying wood ash paste on the seeds, soaking in 1% KNO3 for 1 min, and a control. Analysis of variance and Scheffe's multiple comparison procedure were used to identify methods that significantly differed in seed germination from the control. The most effective treatment was mechanical scarification, followed by leaching and lastly soaking in hot water. The rest of the methods did not significantly differ from the control. It is therefore recommended that farmers use mechanical scarification to break dormancy in jute mallow seeds before sowing.
23433425|Some nanoparticles, like carbon nanotubes, can significantly change plant cell morphology and physiology. The effects of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) on seed germination and seedling growth of salvia (Salvia macrosiphon Boiss.), pepper (Capsicum annuum L.), and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) were studied at four concentrations (10, 20, 30, and 40 mg L-1) plus a control (0 mg L-1) under laboratory and greenhouse conditions. In the laboratory, application of SWCNT increased germination percentage compared to the control. The highest germination percentages for salvia, pepper and tall fescue were 59.6%, 92.9% and 72.9%, respectively. The best effect on seedling length was observed at 10 mg L-1 of SWCNT for salvia and pepper, and at 40 mg L-1 for tall fescue. In the greenhouse, 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT led to the greatest seedling length. In laboratory and greenhouse studies, 10, 20, and 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT had the most pronounced effects on seedling fresh and dry weights compared to the control. For most measured parameters, the highest concentration of SWCNT was associated with negative effects. Overall, the best seed germination and seedling growth for salvia and tall fescue were achieved at 30 mg L-1 of SWCNT, and at 10 mg L-1 for pepper.
23433421|Measurement of various morphological traits of common bean seeds and grouping of landraces collected from Uttarakhand was carried out using image analysis. Projected area, perimeter, major diameter, minor diameter and color of seeds were measured using image analysis. Colors were expressed in terms of RGB channels (red, green and blue) and HSL channels (hue, saturation and lightness). Images of 50100 seeds per landrace in three replicates were captured. All image analysis was carried out using ImageJ, a Java based, multithreaded, freeware image processing and analysis program. Weight of 100 seeds was also taken into account. All data were subjected to principal component analysis, where 90.9% of the variability was expressed and used to group landraces into clusters. Clusters were further refined by hierarchical clustering using the Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean (UPGMA), and the resulting dendrogram with cophenetic correlation coefficient of 0.97 grouped 26 landraces into four clusters. Analysis of variance revealed that only the color feature significantly discriminates these landraces.
23433427|This study investigated the influence of static electromagnetic fields on speed of seed germination of mung beans (green beans), measured as the number of germinated seeds after 24 h of incubation. Prior to germination, seeds were exposed to different types of electromagnetic fields (EMF), namely Helmholtz, north pole and south pole, and different field strengths of 5, 10, 30 and 60 millitesla (mT) at exposures of 15, 30, 45 and 60 min. Results indicated that speed of germination improved following exposure to south pole EMF compared to the control and the other two field types. Upon increasing field strength up to 10 mT, speed of germination improved, but decreased at higher field strengths. Increasing exposure period up to 45 min also led to improved speed of germination. The highest speed of germination was observed using a south pole EMF at 10 mT and an exposure period of 45 min.
23433426|Seed biochemical composition (protein, sugar, starch and free amino acid content) and percentage germination in seed lots of three important conifer species, Abies pindrow, Cupressus torulosa and Picea smithiana from Garhwal Himalaya, revealed significant differences among these species. The highest protein (30.41 mg g-1), starch (72.96 mg g-1) and free amino acid (5.512 mg g-1) contents were found in seeds of A. pindrow, maximum sugar content (71.78 mg g-1) in C. torulosa, whereas the highest germination (72%) was observed in P. smithiana seeds from Tapovan provenance. On the other hand, the lowest protein (8.51 mg g-1) and free amino acid (0.62 mg g-1) contents were found in seeds of C. torulosa, and sugar (2.68 mg g-1) and starch (0.86 mg g-1) contents in P. smithiana and minimum germination (34%) was observed in A. pindrow. Correlation studies suggested that there were no significant associations between altitude and any of the tested seed biochemical constituents. Additionally, no significant correlations were established between and among the different biochemical constituents, as well as germination, for all three species. Thus, exploiting natural variation and using appropriate seed accessions as planting material could be promising tools for large scale multiplication of these potentially useful conifer species.
23433428|Vigor testing is an important determinant of seed quality, providing supplementary information to a germination test. The objective of this study was to compare a 2-day-old seedling test for corn seed vigor assessment using the seed vigor imaging system (SVIS) to other established vigor tests. Six maize (Zea mays L.) seed lots were evaluated for water content, germination and vigor using various tests including seedling emergence, accelerated aging, cold test and SVIS. The 2-day-old SVIS test produced similar results to the other vigor tests, including the 3-day-old SVIS seedling test. Analysis of vigor index data for 2-day-old seedlings showed similar results to the 3-day-old seedlings and the other tests, and was sensitive enough to provide additional seed quality information along with germination test values. Based on these findings, the 2-day-old maize seedling vigor test using SVIS was an improved method for vigor testing; it was more rapid and required fewer resources than other vigor tests for this important crop.
23433202|The objective of this study was to invigorate medium vigor hot pepper seed using matriconditioning. In one experiment, medium (80% germination, 2 year-old) vigor seeds of hot pepper were subjected to various invigoration treatments. In the subsequent experiment, medium and high (95% germination, 1 year-old) vigor hot pepper seeds were subjected to matriconditioning treatment at 15C for 6 days using sawdust (210  particle size) moistened with 100 M GA3. In the later experiment, the ratio of seed to sawdust to GA3 solution in the matriconditioning treatment was 1:2:5. Seed quality of matriconditioned medium vigor seed was enhanced over the untreated seed as indicated by a higher percent of germination, improved vigor index, and speed of germination. The total protein isolated from matriconditioned seed was 16% higher than that from untreated. Meanwhile, total protein isolated from high vigor seed was 10% higher than that from medium vigor seed. Qualitative changes in the profiles of total protein isolated from matriconditioned seeds occurred within the 76, 45, 38, 30 and 20 kDa polypeptides. Matriconditioning with sawdust and GA3 offers an alternative for improving seed quality of hot pepper seeds.
23433205|Various methods of seed scarification including concentrated sulphuric acid, alcohol; methanol, ethanol, iso-propanol, butanol and hot water (100C), were applied on seeds of Tamarindus indica L. and Prosopis africana Guill and Peri., to improve germination and assess seed vigor. The highest germination and germination energy (Germ. En.) for T. indica occurred following pre-treatment in methanol for 10 minutes (70% germination; 42, Germ. En.), while better response was obtained for P. africana following pretreatment in ethanol for 10 minutes (58% germination; 38, Germ. En.), and Conc. H2SO4, for 5 minutes (60% germination; 38, Germ. En.).
23433207|Seed size and seed weight measurements were made for Lotus species from throughout the world range of the genus and correlated with growth habit, life form, breeding system, plant habitat and geographic distribution.
23433200|Testing for purity and viability of native species with deep dormancy can be difficult. A protocol is provided for obtaining a working sample, determining percent germination, determining total viability and reporting results for native species not included in the Rules for Testing Seeds (AOSA, 2001).
23433203|Dimensions of seeds of twenty different agricultural crops were determined by caliper measurements. Individual seed weights were obtained, and mean seed volumes were determined by air-comparison pycnometer measurements for use in determining seed densities. Seed densities ranged from 1.002 g/cm3 for safflower, Carthamus tinctorious L., to 1.460 g/cm3 for milled rice, Oryza sativa L. Test weight (bulk density) measurements were also taken and moisture contents were determined by standard tests. Collectively, these data supplement the limited seed density data currently available in the literature for reference. The product of three orthogonal dimensions (length, width and thickness) was calculated for each kind of seed. A volume coefficient was determined as the ratio of the measured mean volume to the orthogonal-dimension product. The dimensionless volume coefficients, which ranged from 0.222 for oil-type sunflower, Helianthus annuus L., seeds to 0.588 for sweetclover, Melilotus officinalis Lam., seeds, are useful in estimating seed volume from seed dimensional data. With use of the appropriate volume coefficient, seed density can be estimated for a particular kind of seed from seed weight and dimensions, and the potential utility of this concept is demonstrated for single lots of three kinds of seed.
23433199|Testing of native species lends many problems to seed analysts across the United States. Besides purity and germination decisions, there is also confusion encountered when reporting seed testing results. The Rules for Testing Seeds of the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA, 2000) require a four-part purity analysis, incorporating Handbook 25, Uniform Classification of Weed and Crop Seeds (AOSA, 1999), for determining what is other crop or weed seed. This causes problems for the analyst and the consumer. A three-part purity analysis as used by International Seed Testing Association (ISTA, 1999) combines both crop and weed seeds under one classification 'other species', which alleviates many of the problems encountered in reporting seed test results. Combining other crop and weed contaminates into one classification, which is represented as a single percentage, other species, on the label would harmonize seed trade around the world.
23433201|Variation in laboratory test results on native warm season grasses is a current issue in the seed industry. To determine if these concerns were real, samples of big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman), sand bluestem (Andropogon halli Hack), little bluestem [Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash], Indiangrass [Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash], switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) and side oats grama [Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx.) Torr.] were tested in three seed testing laboratories. Samples for each species were split from one seed lot and mailed immediately to two of the three laboratories. All seed lots were tested for purity, germination, dormant seed, tetrazolium, PLSV (pure live seed based on viability) and PLST (pure live seed based on tetrazolium) for each species within a time period of three months. The two seed lots of sideoats grama showed differences in viable seed, tetrazolium, PLSV and PLST among laboratories. The three seed lots of Indiangrass showed little variation among the three laboratories, except seed lot two which had differences in the percentage germination + dormant of 5 + 84 and 84 + 6 % when tested by laboratories A & B, respectively. Big bluestem seed lots had the greatest differences between laboratories of all species tested. The three seed lots tested showed variation in purity, germination + dormant and tetrazolium, however the PLSV responses on seed lots one and three were nearly identical. Two sand bluestem seed lots showed similar PLS responses between laboratories, however seed lot one had different viable and tetrazolium responses. Switchgrass responses for viable, tetrazolium, PLSV, PLST and pure seed were very uniform across the three seed lots and laboratories. Germination plus dormant responses on switchgrass did show significant differences. It appears variation is real between laboratories for certain tests and species. Six sources of variation were identified: 1) Non-flowable nature of seed units, 2) Maturity of seed units, 3) Seed company sampling and mixing uniformity, 4) Laboratory subsampling and mixing uniformity, 5) Purity testing methods and individual technologist, and 6) Viability and dormancy breaking methods used. Continued study and cooperation between seed companies and testing laboratories is needed to work towards further identifying and developing methods which reduce variation in test results of warm season native grasses.
23433197|Varying analysis reports on the same lot of seed in the chaffy rangegrasses create problems in marketing for the seed owner. Wide ranges in the percentage of pure seed for these difficult native species are reported when results are compared between laboratories and between analyses within a laboratory. This paper explains the procedures for obtaining the working sample in Andropogon gerardii, (big bluestem), Andropogon halli, (sand bluestem), Schizachyrium scoparius (little bluestem) and Sorghastrum nutans (Indiangrass). These four species have similar spikelet characteristics and thus can be considered as one for determining the percent pure seed methodology. The basics of determining what is classified in the Rules for Testing Seeds as a seed unit, and what comprises pure seed and inert are explained and shown so that an analyst unfamiliar with these species can successfully perform an accurate analysis. The proper steps and mechanics of conducting the purity analysis, proper sampling of the seed lot and methods to subdivide the submitted sample down to the working sample size are explained. Information on easier and faster ways to separate the filled seed units from the empty seed units is included as an aid to the analyst. With an understanding of the proper interpretation of procedures in the Rules for Testing Seeds the purity testing differences can be greatly diminished for these four species.
23433206|Reversed-Phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (RP-HPLC) of cereal grain proteins has received much attention in recent years as a quick and efficient means of cultivar identification. A study of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) and annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) was undertaken to determine if RP-HPLC could be adapted to the identification of these species. Chromatograms of different cultivars of the two species studied all had distinct peak patterns, which correlated with each kind. Protein analysis of single seeds accurately differentiated annual ryegrass seeds from perennial ryegrass seeds. Mixtures of ryegrass seeds were analyzed and compared. A lower limit of 10% annual ryegrass in perennial ryegrass was detected by monitoring changes of area under the peaks of the chromatograms. RP-HPLC was shown to be a quick, repeatable and reliable method of ryegrass species identification for a general screening of seed lots.
23433204|Poor stand establishment of vegetables is attributable to low seed vigor and high susceptibility to stressful biotic and abiotic soil environments. The objective of this paper was to describe the effect of matriconditioning integrated with fungicide, GA and biological seed treatments on performance of vegetable crops, and their effectiveness on physiological and biochemical changes. Matriconditioning ameliorated the performance of eggplant and tomato seeds in 1999 field plantings in Brazil. Reduction in time to 50% (T50) emergence in conditioned seeds ranged from 4 days in eggplant to 2 days in tomato. Further improvement in emergence rate occurred by inclusion of gibberellin (GA4+7) during conditioning. Eggplant and tomato seed germination is influenced by endosperm cell layer digestion by GA-induced enzymes, which reduce mechanical restraints to the embryo. Pre-sowing seed conditioning in the presence of Bacillus subtilis proved effective in increasing sweet corn shoot dry weight in the field, but the addition of GA during matriconditioning in sweet corn had a negative effect. Fungicide added to brittle genotype sweet corn seeds with or without conditioning improved the final percentage emergence by 140 and 125% when compared to non-conditioned seeds. Osmoconditioning with PEG reduced the emergence rate and shoot weight production of both hybrids. Electrolyte leakage was greater in brittle sweet corn seeds carrying the bt2 gene compared to the sugary type, and in both cases, matriconditioning reduced the leakage. Matriconditioning with or without biological seed treatment may be a feasible strategy in improving stand and yield of sweet corn of lower seed quality under tropical conditions.
23433196|Native species are planted to re-vegetate former cropland, degraded pastures and rangelands, mined lands, "natural areas", roadside right-of-ways, and other land management areas with plants, usually perennials, to stabilize and provide desirable classes of vegetation. Acceptable stands need to be obtained in a reasonable time. Seed of native plants varies widely in seed quality factors including seed size, purity, dormancy, germination, and vigor. Seed quality tests required for sale of native seeds usually include germination, purity, and hard or dormant seeds. These laboratory tests do not always predict the capability of a seed lot to establish a stand under field conditions and do not give the seed user enough information to determine planting rate. The number of emerged seedlings per gram of seed in species specific stress tests may be a method of quantifying seed quality that is predictive of the seed's capability of producing a stand under field conditions. A standardized establishment test based on a unit of weight could be used to directly calculate planting rates.
23433198|Native species are primarily undomesticated crops that possess high levels of seed dormancy. Seed technologists use prechill, predry, scarification, and leaching techniques during germination testing to break this dormancy. The objective of this report is to show that, while germination is increased, each of these approaches create seed stress that reduces seed viability and germination, thereby providing growers and buyers of native species incorrect information concerning the plant performance ability of the seed lot. To more accurately portray the seed quality of native species, it is proposed that a TZ test be conducted prior to the germination test to identify the viability of the seed lot followed by a germination test to determine the present performance potential of the seed lot.
23433237|It has been long debated among seed analysts whether to define caryopses (dry, indehiscent one-seeded fruit, as in grasses) with some degree of endosperm development as pure seed or inert matter. This study was conducted to evaluate the germinability of perennial ryegrass seed (Lolium perenne L.) that contain caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea and compare them with seed that contain caryopses at least one-third the length of the palea. Random samples from forty seed lots representing two cultivars harvested in 1999, 2000, and 2001 were examined. Florets with caryopses having some degree of endosperm development were separated from each sample and germinated following the AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds. One hundred single florets with caryopses one-third the length of the palea or more from each sample were also germinated as control checks. The germination of seeds with caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea was 0.33%, compared to 92% for seeds with more than one-third the length of the palea. The results suggested that florets with caryopses less than one-third the length of the palea should not be classified as pure seed, but should be classified as inert matter. If the AOSA Rules were changed, it would result in uniformity between the AOSA and ISTA Rules regarding this standard. In addition, including such seed in the inert matter of a sample would result in increasing the germination percentage.
23433235|Two methods, ocular measurements using a stereomicroscope and computerized image analysis, were compared to assess the usefulness of image analysis as an efficient and precise method to measure variation in fruit traits, such as fruit length. Individual fruits from nine plant species differing in size, shape, and the existence of dispersal-related structures were measured repeatedly with both methods. Results showed significant between-method differences in fruit length. Image analysis tended to overestimate fruit length, although differences between the two methods were very small. Both stereomicroscope and image analysis discriminated fruits of different sizes, whatever their shape, and no bias due to size was found in any case. However, low (though significant) correlations were found for measurements of elongated fruits with a tailed pappus obtained by both methods. Overall, we conclude that image analysis represents a good method to accurately estimate variation in fruit traits. The advantages of using image analysis are (1) the high amount of fruit parameters obtained with one single measurement, (2) the minimization of human errors, (3) the reduction of time needed to obtain large data sets concerning fruit trait variability, and (4) the possibility to estimate variability in traits of fruits with complicated shapes.
23433234|The effects of two seedling abnormalities: 1) curved hypocotyl forming a loop (CH) and 2) primary root split from the tip (PRS) on several growth variables and timing of bloom onset of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) plants were investigated. During early ontogeny plants developed from abnormal seedlings were shorter and had shorter internodes than those developing from normal seedlings. Total biomass was lower in plants from CH seedlings only. Internode formation, leaf production and root length at the end of the assessment period were not affected by either abnormality. Neither of the abnormalities affected timing of bloom onset. Seedlings with CH and PRS abnormalities appear to be capable of recovery during growth and to bloom normally. Further studies are necessary to determine how different types of peanut seedling abnormalities affect the yield of the crop under field conditions.
23433238|Two types of seed surface, smooth and wrinkled, in the seed lot of Dialium guineense Willd, were nicked, immersed in hot water at 100 and 50 C, soaked in HNO3 and H2SO4 and mechanically scarified to improve germination under both light and dark conditions. Smooth seeds treated with H2SO4 (5 min) and in boiling water at 100 C (5 min) resulted in high germination, 74% and 70%, respectively. However, among the wrinkled seeds, only the boiling water treatment at 100 C (5 min) resulted in 50% germination. Generally, seeds tested under light conditions were higher in germination than those in the darkness.
23433236|The identification of new markers for germination capacity, activities and electrophoretic patterns of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoforms were evaluated in artificially aged common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seed samples with different germination levels. The physiological determinations were carried out on seeds imbibed under aerobic (moist paper) and anaerobic (submersion in water) conditions. Under both imbibition conditions wheat seeds with low germination capacity (AA2 and AA3 samples) showed reduced water uptake, respiration, ADH and LDH activities, and high electrical conductivity of seed leachate. The seed characterized by intermediate germination capacity (AA1 sample) showed respiration quotient values 1.5 and 1.7 times higher than control seeds, respectively, after 6 and 12 h imbibition under aerobic conditions. At 24 h imbibition under aerobic or anaerobic conditions, the isoform profiles of LDH were the same for all seed samples. Patterns of ADH isoforms extracted from seeds imbibed under aerobic conditions showed no difference among aged seed samples. Imbibition under anaerobic conditions showed two clearly visible additional bands in the ADH electrophoretic pattern of high germination capacity seeds. These additional bands were not observed in the aged seed samples. Anaerobic conditions seem to amplify differences in ADH isoform pattern, that might be used as an indicator of high germination capacity in wheat seeds.
23433239|Healthy grains of Triticum aestivum (L) cv. HD-2204 were imbibed in 10-6, 10-8 or 10-10 M aqueous solution of 28-homobrassinolide (HBR) for 4, 8 or 12 hours. Treated seeds were then transferred to petriplates, lined with water soaked filter paper, for germination. It was observed, after 96 hours, that percent germination and the activity of -amylase were enhanced irrespective of HBR concentration and soaking duration. The maximum values for germination and -amylase activity were recorded in the grains soaked in 10-10 M of HBR for 4 hours, which were 60% and about four times more than the water soaked control, respectively. It was closely followed by the next higher concentration (10-8 M) of the hormone.
23433264|Ramon, Brosimum alicastrum Sw. (Moraceae), is one of the tropical native trees of the Yucatn Peninsula in Mexico with agroforestry potential. Almost one millon ramon seeds are sown in forest nurseries as part of the activities of the National Reforestation Program (PRONARE) in the southeast region of Mexico, however, there are so many gaps of information about the performace of ramon seeds that its propagation has been limited. The objectives of this study were: (1) to evaluate the emergence rate and early seedling growth of a sample of ramon seeds, the product of free pollination, and (2) to explore the relationships among the seed weight and growth of seedlings 50 days after the sowing date. The variables were: (1) seed weight, (2) emergence rate [days], (3) seedling height; (4) main root length; (5) stem diameter; (6) number of leaves, (7) stem and leaf fresh weight, (8) root fresh weight, (9) stem and leaf dry weight, (10) root dry weight, (11) sturdiness quotient, and (12) shoot/root ratio. The results of 184 observations for each variable, were subjected to descriptive statistics analysis and simple correlation analysis. The resulting seedlings showed high morphological variability that was significantly associated with the fresh weight of the seeds. Seed sizing is recommended to maintain standards for ramon nursery production, which can be achieved by seed selection before sowing.
23433271|Two liquid nitrogen storage experiments were performed on 51 tree species. In experiment 1, seeds of 9 western tree species were placed in a liquid nitrogen tank for 3 time periods: 24 hours, 4 weeks, and 222 days. A corresponding control sample accompanied each treatment. For three species, Calocedrus decurrens, Pinus jefferyi, and Pinus contorta, the germination percent was not significantly different from the controls in any of the liquid nitrogen treatments. Exposure to 24 hours of liquid nitrogen did not affect the germination percent for any of the 9 species compared to their controls. Two species, Abies x shastensis and Picea engelmannii, exhibited a significant negative response to 4 weeks exposure to liquid nitrogen. Four species Abies amabilis, Abies concolor, Pinus monticola, and Pseudotsuga menziesii, exhibited a significant positive response to the 222-day exposure to liquid nitrogen when compared with Control D. Experiment 2 examined the germination response to liquid nitrogen storage after a 24 hour exposure for 42 tree species. The germination percent for nine of the 42 species, Acer rubra, Celtis occidentalis, Lonicera tartarica, Malus prunifolia, Physiocarpus opulifiolius, Pinus banksiana, Pinus clausa, Pinus nigra, and Pinus rigida, was significantly affected by 24 hours exposure to liquid nitrogen. Liquid nitrogen exposure had a negative affect on germination for 7 species and a positive effect for 2 species, Pinus nigra, and Pinus rigida. Only 8 species had enough data to calculate the correlation coefficient between moisture content and germination after exposure to liquid nitrogen. Correlations were significant for 4 species. Two species, Abies fraseri and Liriodendron tulipfera had negative correlations; two species, Pinus ponderosa and Pinus taeda had positive correlations.
23433262|Beechnuts are deeply dormant and require long cold prechilling before they germinate (one to three months). The methodology of pretreatment without medium at controlled moisture content applied before or after storage is the best method to take into account the dormancy and the heterogeneity within a seedlot (consequence of the genetic variability). It allows a very fast and grouped seedling emergence in the nursery. However, this long prechilling often damages older, less vigorous seedlots. The effect of chemical treatments on dormancy breaking, in particular growth regulators, as a means of shortening the treatment, has been studied. In previous experiments ethephon was shown to strongly stimulate percentage and germination rate of freshly collected beechnuts and to reduce the duration of the cold requirement by half in comparison with the classical pretreatment which needs 4 to 20 weeks. In the present study ethephon + short prechilling (3 weeks) strongly stimulates germination and seedling emergence of beechnuts stored for 3 years at either 7 or 9% moisture content. It avoids the viability loss of less-vigorous beech seeds during longer prechilling (5 weeks) and allows restoring the initial potential of the seedlots. No significant effect of storage moisture content is observed on seedling emergence when seeds are short-prechilled with ethephon. Thus, ethephon used in association with short cold treatment opens new prospects for dormancy breaking particularly in nurseries where short prechilling are preferred.
23433270|Water-based pretreatments are used to reduce the great variety in germination parameters of conifer seeds. However, treatment results of Norway spruce seeds are frequently unsatisfactory. The aim of this work was to study changes in the germination parameters of spruce seeds during the multiphased pretreatment chain and the impact of seed structures on these changes. Furthermore we studied the effect of storage on germination indices of pretreated spruce seeds. Seeds were extracted using the ordinary method by sprinkling water on the cones or restricting that amount of water sprinkled on the cones. Cleaned and dried seeds were stored at -3 C for three months prior to IDS-treatment. The changes in germination parameters were studied using germination tests and radiography. Seed structures were observed using SEM. In general germination parameters of seed lots increased during the pretreatment chain despite the opening of the seed coat, which occurred in fungi-infected seeds already at the extraction phase. The seed coat usually opened from the micropyle almost as far as the edge of the nucellar cap. The IDS-treatment succeeded well, and the germination parameters in the best fractions were 1328% better than in the seed batches prior to IDS-treatment. The germination indices remained nearly unchanged during one year's storage at -18 C. This indicates that the large nucellar cap typical for spruce seeds protected the megagametophyte and the embryo during pretreatment phases and short-term storage. The results also pointed out how pretreatments should be improved to get them better adapted for spruce seeds.
23433268|Previously published reports indicated that germination of some tree seeds might be controlled by an endogenous germination periodicity. It is most important to confirm whether this phenomenon is true because it could affect laboratory seed testing. This study was designed to test this hypothesis with white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss), jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm.) seeds. Results of monthly germination tests over 12 months under laboratory conditions showed there was no consistent trend of endogenous control of germination periodicity in all three species tested. Variations were found in both the rate and total germination of P. glauca and P. contorta but only in the rate of germination of P. banksiana seeds; however, these variations were reduced by an extended photoperiod (16 hours) and almost completely eliminated by a moist chilling treatment.
23433266|Germination of Dalbergia cochichinensis Pierre seeds at various stages of maturity (green, yellowish-brown and dark-brown fruits) showed the presence of primary dormancy. The germination capacity (30 C/20 C  16h/8h light/darkness) was highest for seeds from green fruits (after a germination period of 28 days), followed by yellowish-brown and dark-brown fruits. After four weeks of storage, germination of seeds from yellowish-brown fruit was highest, while mean germination rate was lowest from seeds of green fruits.
23433265|The recalcitrant behavior of cherrybark oak (Quercus pagoda Raf.) acorns was examined in terms of effects of moisture content on seed storage longevity and (short term) seed germination. Seed samples collected over two consecutive years were fully hydrated, then subjected to drying under ambient conditions of temperature and relative humidity on the lab bench and sampled regularly for moisture determination (gravimetric analysis) and germination (greenhouse conditions). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) was used to follow changes in macromolecular structure as moisture and viability were lost. Transmission spectra were collected on dry and rehydrated samples of separate embryonic axis and cotyledon tissue. Long-term storage longevity was highly dependent on initial acorn moisture content. Germination was also highly dependent on short-term moisture content, and severely declined when seed moisture dropped below 17% (fresh weight basis). FT-IR analyses revealed significant differences in moisture and lipid profiles between embryonic axis and cotyledon tissue during short term drying. A strong absorbance near 1740 cm-1 in cotyledon tissue indicated a high concentration of ester carbonyl groups (storage lipids). Membrane lipid structure exhibited reversible shifts between gel and liquid crystalline phases upon drying and rehydration in both axes and cotyledons (peak frequency and bandwidth near 2850 cm-1); however, reversibility declined as viability was lost. Irreversible changes in protein secondary structure, illustrated by shifts in the amide absorbance near 1650 cm-1, were the most sensitive indicators of viability loss.
23433259|A slightly invasive biopsy procedure allows quantitative analyses while using computerized tomography (CT) for biodensity of morphology, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of mobile proton distributions for comparative physiology. The supplemental procedures provide a useful comparison of dormant and germinated seed tissues to correlate form, function, and amount of metabolic substrate during treatments and storage trials. CT uses thin, contiguous, nondestructive slices of single-plane images to identify and quantify area and volume in any tissues within a 5000 Hounsfield unit biodensity range. The data are expressed in either histograms of densities or numerical mapping of the same density units. MRI provides presence and distributions of the hydrogen ion density for bulk water and/or fatty acid molecules. These mobile hydrogen ion distributions are visually displayed by both area and volume (pixel and voxel determinations). The biopsy is a sample extraction through a 1.0- to 3.0-mm bore penetrating the seed coat. Chemical analyses, for example, nitric oxide synthase (NOS), are quantitative for elemental and organic changes in challenged tissue. NOS is a widely reported free radical functioning as a messenger molecule for both inter- and intracellular significance. Although NOS is not definitely shown to affect plant cellular metabolism, it is an assay and can be controlled using both enhancements and inhibitors.
23433260|Difficulties in tree seed supply, dormancy and germination mean that the majority of seed researchers have ignored temperate and especially tropical tree species in their studies. Examples of results from several comparatively large systematic investigations of tree seed dormancy and survival are presented. Although the responses might be regarded as complex, they tend to tally with those for other plant propagules.
23433269|Total seed DNA of naturally and artificially aged [accelerated aging test (AAT)] longleaf pine seeds was quantified and analyzed. No seeds germinated after 240 hr of AAT. Seeds in the forest condition lost germination after 180 days. Seeds in 4 C conditions maintained 50% germination in three lots after 360 days. Storage at 30 C caused significant decline in germination after 360 days. For artificially aged seeds, DNA followed a low-high-low pattern coinciding respectively to the more viable and non-viable state with peaks at the intermediate aging regimes. Three lots showed increases in DNA after 90 days under forest conditions. Increases are probably due to hyperchromism. DNA was stable for seeds stored in 4 C and 30 C conditions. Gel electrophoresis revealed DNA fragmentation after 144 hours of AAT and 90 days of natural forest conditions. Incipient signs of fragmentation were observed in seeds stored at 30 C. No fragmentation was observed in DNA of seeds stored at 4 C. Big molecular weight fragments were possibly formed through the crosslinking of liquid peroxidation by-products and DNA for the following treatments: 240 or more hours of AAT, 4 C after 360 days, and all seeds at 30 C conditions. DNA fragmentation and crosslinking are presumed critical in non-germination of longleaf pine seeds. Regression analysis revealed differences in the rate of change of DNA in the two aging regimes. The use of AAT to examine aging mechanisms may not be reliable. The high seed moisture contents and the massive fungal infection in AAT are probable reasons.
23433267|The course of germination events includes seed dormancy, its release, the preparation for cell elongation in the axes, early germination and postgerminative extension of seedling organs. The specificity of horse chestnut seeds is manifested in (1) their recalcitrance, (2) dominance of coat-imposed dormancy over embryo dormancy, (3) embryo dormancy breakage by cytokinins only and (4) growth initiation by cell elongation in the embryo axes up to an axis length of 3.03.5 cm, confirmed by cell length measurements and the absence of both mitoses and thymidine kinase activity. In horse chestnut seeds, the hormonal regulation differs during the progress from deep dormancy to seedling growth. Embryo dormancy is maintained by abscisic acid and is broken by cytokinins. Cell preparation for elongation proceeds in nondormant seeds and includes an accumulation of endogenous osmotica accompanied by cell wall loosening. The latter occurs via activation of plasmalemma H+-ATPase and extrusion of protons into cell walls, thus acidifying them. Cell elongation after radicle emergence is stimulated by gibberellins. These conclusions are in agreement with the data on dynamics of endogenous abscisic acid and cytokinins.
23433263|Responses of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) seeds to freezing temperatures after incubation for 5 days at 15 C were examined for dry (7%), 15%, 20%, 25%, and 30% moisture content seeds using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) to identify critical moisture content at freezing. In a complementary experiment, seeds of the different initial moisture contents were incubated for 2 or 5 days, and subsequently exposed to -5 C or -20 C during 2 days or 5 days, and tested for germination (21 days, 20 C). In the DSC experiments, seeds with higher moisture content (20%, 25%, and 30%) had significantly wider endothermic peaks (-30.51 J/g, -40.36 J/g, and -47.02 J/g) than seeds with lower moisture contents (15% and dry seeds; -6.94 J/g and -0.65 J/g). Germination capacity ranged from 97% (control) to 58% (30% moisture content, 5 days of incubation, 5 days of freezing at -20 C). Germination capacity after freezing was significantly higher (81%-83%) for seeds with moisture contents from dry to 20%, compared to seeds with moisture contents between 25%-30% (68%-72%). Seeds exposed to -20 C for 2 and 5 days had significantly lower germination capacity (72%) than seeds exposed to -5 C (80%83%). In conclusion, freeze damage increased with the combination of high seed moisture and decreasing below 0 C temperatures, and increased freezing duration. The critical moisture content of Scots pine seeds is between 150%20% according to DSC and germination tests. To enable autumn seeding, artificial seed coating should restrict water uptake under this critical moisture content during winter and allow for water uptake and germination in spring.
